Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19236
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3498-IN)
June 25, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit              Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. I                   Paise 100
RUPEE (Rs.)/US $ EXCHANGE RATES
At SAR Rs. 25.5 per US$
At closing date Rs. 39.8 per US$
MSEB Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I Ton (t)                                I 1 metric tonne = 1,000 Kg = 2,204 lbs.
I Kilovolt                        =      1,000 volts (V)
I Kilovolt ampere (kVA)           =      1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
I Kilowatt-hour (kWh)             =      1,000 watt-hours
I Megawatt-hour (MWh)             =      1,000 kilowatt-hours
I Gigawatt-hour (GWh)             =      1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA                             ----    Central Electricity Authority
GOI                             ----    Govemment of India
HVDC                            ---     High Voltage Direct Current
IBRD                            ----    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                             ---    Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR                             ----    Implementation Completion Report
IERR                            ----    Intemal Economic Rate of Retum
ILFS                            ----    Infrastructure leasing and financing service
IPP                             ----    Independent Power Producer
MSEB                            ----    Maharashtra State Electricity Board
NGO                             ----    Non-Govemmental Organizations
PAFs                            ----    Project Affected Families
PFC                             ----    Power Finance Corporation
PIB                             ---     Public Investment Board
PLF                             ----    Plant Load Factor
PPA                             ---     Power Purchase Agreement
R&R                             ----    Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RAP                             ----    Rehabilitation Action Plan
RBI                             ----    Reserve Bank of India
SEB                              --     State Electricity Board
Vice President:                      Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                   Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:                    Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Leader:                        Anthony E. Sparkes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA - SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT - (LOAN 3498-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTI ENTS
PRE]FACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................i
PART i: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMIENT ...............................................I
A. Project Objectives ...............................................                                                                                         l
B. Achievement of Objectives ..............................................                                                                                   5
C.  Major Factors Affectinig  the Project ..............................................                                                                      9
D. Project Sustainability ...............                                                                                              .                    12
E. Bank Performance ...........................                                                              ,                                              12
F. Borrower Perforrnance ...........................                                                                                                         13
G. Assessment of Project Outcome ...........................                                                                                                 14
H. Future Operations ...........................                                                                                                            14
1. Key Lessons Learned ...........................                                                                                                          15
PARTI'l: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I  - Sulimmary of Assessiicints ............................ 17
Table 2    - Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ...........................                                                                                       18
Table 3 - Project Timetable ...........................                                                                                                      18
Table 4    - ILoan  Disbursemcnts:  CLumI  ulative  I'stimated and  Actual ........................................................... 19
Table 5    - Key  Indicators for Project Impleilcintationi .......................................................................                           19
Table 6   - Key  System   Indicator-s .......................................................................                                               19
Table 7    - Studies Included  in the Project........                        .....................       ...........         ........-..........- ...   20
Table 8A  - Project Costs ........................................................................                                                           20
Table 8B  - Project Financing ........................................................................ 20
Table 9    - Economii         c C'osts a and  13eniel'its .......................................................................                           21
Table  10  - Status of Legal C                  rov iealnts ....................................................................... 22
TableI 11  - Complianice withi ()peraltional   an/i  1uatl l Statemcnts ....................................................................... 23
T'able  12 - Bank  lResources: Staft'f ipills ....n................................................................... 23
Table 13 - Bank lResources Missionis .                                                                                                                      23
APPENDIX - A:                                      Project Rexvicw troili Bolrrow\ er's Perspective - Contribution by MSEB.....- ... 24
APPENDIX  - B:                                       IMinvironi cntaC   I   Impact ISSuIes .............................................................................. 35
APPENDIX  - C:                                      I an1(d  Acquisiltom. IRescttlement an(d  Rehabilitation  Issues .................................. 37
APPENDIX  - D:                                     Financiail Osvrcisi\\c.                      .............................................................................. 44
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World EBank authorization.



INDIA - SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT - LOAN 3498-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Maharashtra Power
Project in India, for which Loan 3498-IN in the amount of US$350 million equivalent was
approved on June 25, 1992 and made effective on June 18, 1993. The Borrower was India,
acting by its President. The Implemenitinig Agency for the project was the Maharashtra State
Electricity Board (MSEB). The project comprised a generation componenit and an associated
transmission component, a distribution componient, and studies perfonred by consultants to
advise MSEB on demand side management and environmental impact management.
Because of non-compliance with several of the loan's financial covenants and because
Government of Maharashtra (GOM) failed to pass on to MSEB part of the proceeds of the loan,
the Bank suspended disbursements as of October 22, 1996. Although most of these covenants
were later complied with, MSEB's receivables position did not improve, and remains to-date at
about 4 months instead of the 2.5 months covenanted. Thus the suspension remained in place,
and US$237.7 million was canceled, effective June 30, 1998, when the loan account closed on
the originally scheduled loan closing date.
The developmental objectives to strengthen1 the power sector in Maharashtra, to provide
MSEB with managerial autonomy, and enable the sector to access sources of private investments
and improve external resource mobilization, were only partially met. There were substantial
savings in the project cost due to continlLoLus devaluation of the Indian rupee vis-a-vis the US
dollar (luring the project implemenltationi period. Besides the Bank loan, the project was financed
with the help of export credits and by MSEB's own resources.
This ICR was prepared by Anthioniy E. Sparkcs (Task Leader), South Asia Energy Sector
Unit (SASEG), Sameer Shukla (Finanicial Analyst), and 1. U. B. Reddy (Social Development
Officer), and reviewed by Kari Nyman, lndia Encrgy Tcamii Leader, SASEG.
Preparation of this ICR began durinig a Bank ICR mission in May 1998, and was finalized
during a follow-up mission in Decembcr 1998. It is based on material in the project file and site-
specific information collected durinig the ICR missioni. The implementing agency, MSEB,
contributed to the preparation of this K('R by providing technical data, the details of the final
costs of the project, and finanicial rccords and projections.  MSEB's evaluation of the
implemrentation exercise is providcd in Appendix A of this ICR.



INDIA - SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT - LOAN 3498-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEI ION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduiction
I. In 1991 the Government of India opened the power sector in generation to private
investment, by changing the law to provide for ownership of generating companies by the private
sector, and for private generating companies and captive plants to sell power to the SEBs.
However, in 1992, when the project was appraised, the poor Finanacial positionl of most state
electricity boards lead to the conclusion that significanlt investmiielnts from tlle private sector were
still some years away. Also the ability of the SEBs, including the Malharaslhtra State Electricity
Board, to mobilize internal resources was hampered by their weak financial conditionis. The
project was thus designed to assist the state develop its private power policy wvithin the new
nationial guidelines, to increase MSEB's generationi and transmission capacity, and help the state
conitract with private developers for major power generationi projects (Part 1, paragraplh 2).
Project Objectives
2. The main objectives of the project were to (a) support operational efficiency improvements;
(b) improve internal and external resource mobilizationi and (c) promote institutional reformns,
including the enhancement of the role of thc private scctor. The maini benefits of the project
were in-tenided to be (i) iiicreased power supplies an(d improvements in the quality of electricity
services in Maharashtra; (ii) the strengthening of MSEB's finances and managerial autonomy;
(iii) more economic use of generatinig capacity througlh better pr-icinlg policies, demand
management and loss reduction mcasurcs; (iv) reductions in rcliallce onl the central government
for financing investmenlt requirclllemets by incrcasing MSEB's self-finianicinig capabilities and
improving external resource mobilization as well as Facilitatinig private sector investments; and
(v) strengthening of MSEB's environlmicnital impact m11anagenient capability (Part 1, paragraph 3).
3. The project, as part of MSEB's lcast-cost devcloplmcnit program, included (a) a 500 MW
coal-fired unit at Chandrapur; (b) a ±500 kV, 1,50()( MW capacity HVDC line and the related
terminaal stations; (c) a distribuLtion reinforcciemcln coilipolcnit; and (d) consulting services to be
provided in the following four arcas: (i) load research ianid preparation of electricity demand
management measures; (ii) development ol MSl 2B's cnivi ronimiiental maniagement capabilities at
the corporate level; (iii) preparationl of privatc power projccts in Maharashtra; and (iv)
institutional review of the power sector in Maharashtra (Part I, paragraph 4).
4. Loan 3498-IN was for US$ 350 millionl cquivalent, and was approved on June 25, 1992,
signed on July 8, 1992, and became effective on Junc 18, 1993. Financing was also provided via
export credits to help finance the terminial stations, and from MSEB's self-generated resources



- ii -
5. The implementation by MSEB of the main component of the project, the coal-fired 500 MW
Chancdrapur Unit 7 was completed, commissioned and connected to the grid for commercial
operation in October 1997, about three months ahead of schedule. Implementation and
commissioning by MSEB of the ±500 kV direct current transmission line and the associated
converter stations was completed in mid-June 1999, and a fifteen day trial operation is due to
begin on July 1, 1999. MSEB is effecting the recommendations of consultant's demand-side
management study, and has implemented consultant's advice on how MSEB can strengthen its
environmental impact management capacity.
Implementation Experience and Results
6. Developmnental outcomiie (Part I; paragraphs 14, 24 and 25)    The main factor which
prevented the achievement of the developmental objective of the project was clearly the
interference of GOM, which issued directives that restricted MSEB from operating
commercially. Also, MSEB's tariffs and their timing were decided by GOM, and seemingly
were heavily influenced by political consideration. MSEB, as a result of the directives, has been
unable to effectively collect from certain categories of consumers. MSEB's tariffs are highly
distorted, with agricultural and domestic consumers paying tariffs substantially lower than the
average cost of supply.
7. Ihupj?lem;ienitation (Part I; paragraph 2land 22) A well-experienced project team in MSEB
ensured that the project's main physical component, the 500 MW generating unit at Chandrapur,
was completed ahead of time and below the cost estimate.
8. Project costs, savings antd canicellationi (Part I; paragraphs 33, 34 and Table 8A)    Most
contracts were awarded to local suppliers, and because of the devaluation of the Rupee during the
project implementation period, the costs in dollar temis of the Bank-funded items were
significantly lower than the appraisal estimates. However, disbursements from the loan were
suspended in October 1996, when only US$ 112.3 millioni had been disbursed. The suspension
was not lifted, and the loan closed as originially schcdluled on1 Junle 30, 1998, when US$ 233.7
million was cancelled.
9. Rate of Retutrn. (Part I; paragraph 35 and Table 9)  The IERR for the investment
prograrn of the Western Region, of whichi the project is part, is calculated to be 15 percent, taking
into account consumer surplus, and based on NISEB's present tariff's, which is the same as the
appraisal estimate. However, in a scenario where MSEB's demand projections fail to materialize
in full, and its high-cost IPPs start genieratinig anid oust its older, cheaper plants, the EIRR would
be lower.
10. Sustainability. (Part l; paragraph 40 and 41)   The physical achievements of the project are
likely to be sustained. Operational plans to ensure the sustainability of the project have been
discussed and agreed with MSEB's management, including the provision of start-up spares, and
through the annual budgeting of adequate funds for maintenance and operations. MSEB has
sufficient suitably qualified staff to operate and maintain the equipment through its design life.



- 1ii -
I1. The marginal improvements in MSEB's financial position brought about in 1996, following
the threat to suspend and the suspension, were sustained until the loan closed in June 1998. A
tariff increase of 13%, mainly falling on industrial consumers, was allowed in 1998. However,
MSEB's position continues to be weak, and dependent on Government subsidies. Tariffs
continue to be inappropriately heavy on industry and commerce, and losses, mainly theft,
amongst the otlher consumner groups, persist at high levels. In the absence of further Central
Govemnment guarantees, the sector is unlikely to be able to attract investments in the amounts
needed for electricity developments to support Maharashtra's economic development. It is
doubtful if the positionl will improve unless Maharashtra enters into a program of reform, broadly
along the lines of the recommendations contained in the RajadhYaksha Committee Report.
12. Resettlement andil rehabilitationi (Part I, paragraphs 37, 38 and 39)   The project did not
involve any new displacemenit of people, but the prior constructioll of units 5 and 6 at
Chandrapur and the need for land for ash disposal ponds had led to the displacement of about
800 faimilies, not all of whlomii had been adequately resettled. The project was therefore used as a
vehicle to assess, via the use of consultants, the number of families (787) wvho needed to be
resettled, and to correct any shortcomings. Of these, 350 families have been resettled. The
remaining families have not relocated, and they continue to practice cultivation on the land they
previously owned and which MSEB has acquired from them, but will not need for ash disposal
for several years yet. MSEB has carefully detailed and recorded the acquisitions, and agreed the
details with the families. MSEB will resettle the remaining families, as and when (about four
years hence) the land is required for ash disposal. The South Asia Region will budget for
sufficient staff resources to review the situation on an anllual basis, and when resettlement is
completed will recommend that MSEB undertake an impact evaluation study to detenrine the
levels of living standards amongst the affected persons related to the known base data.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, Key Lessons Learned
13. Bank Perform?anice.   (Part I; paragraph 42) The performanice of the Bank, in helping
MSEEB identify a suitable package of project componcnits, was satisfactory. Advice provided to
Maharashtra as to how it should reform its power sector, preccded the fomlal Bank Policy on
power sector reforn, which was published about a year later. In 1 992, wvhcn the project was
appraised, the poor financial position of most state clectricity boards (SEBs) led to the
conclusion that significant investments from thc private sector weIe still some years away. The
ability of the SEBs to mobilize internal resources was hamilper-ed by their weak financial
conditions. However, the strongest of India's state power sectors and its utility, the Maharashtra
State E]lectricity Board (MSEB) were expected to be ablc to improve operations with Bank
support. Thus the project was designed to assist the state develop its private power policy and
regulatory framework within the national guidelinies, to increase MSEB's generation and
transmission capacity, and help the state contract witlh private dcveloper-s for major power
generation projects. The Staff Appraisal Report recognlized that there was a risk that the pace of
institutional reform in Maharashtra might be slow, and that has proved to be the case.
14. Borrower Performance. (Part I; paragraph 44 and 45) MSEB prepared well a least-cost,
economical and sustainable investment project, and utilized the experience it had acquired in
designing and engineering 500 MW thernal units, which had been constructed previously at



- iv -
ChancLrapur (Loan 2544-IN). However, compliance by Maharashtra and by MSEB with several
covenants of the loan was unsatisfactory. Interference by the Government of Maharashtra.
(GOMI) in the operations of MSEB resulted in MSEB being unable to perform as a commercial
utility. In contravention of the covenants, which required that GOM ensure that MSEB operates
along commercial lines, GOM did not allow MSEB to charge appropriate tariffs and insisted
(and insists) that MSEB provide low and heavily subsidized tariffs to agriculture users and to a
large rural cooperative, which in turn meant placing a huge burden on industrial consumers, and
GOM having to provide MSEB with large annual subsidies. Instead of producing returns to
GOM on the investments made in the sector, MSEB is Using3 up scarce resources, which are
needed for investments in other fund-starved sectors, whichI Vwould benefit the poor, such as
education and health (Part I; paragraph 9).
15. Inadequate and untimely tariff increases caused severe strain on MSEB's finanices. MSEB
was also restricted from taking much needed actions to recover dues from non-payingc consumers
leading to an ever increasing burden of receivables, most of which1, because of their age, have
nlow become an un1collectable bad debt. In addition, GOM issued directives to MSEB to provide
and maintain additional electricity supplies to agricultural users, leading to shortages for other
paying categories of consumers. Besides weakening MSEB financialiy, this operational
interference by GOM has over the years led to a lack of accountability in MSEB, and a
slackerning of commercial discipline.
16. Assessmiienit of Ouitcomle anid Fututzre Operations. (Part I; paragraph 46, 47 and 48)   The
results of the project are mixed. The physical componenits of the project were completed, mainly
ahead of time and under budget, and benefits will be sustainied. However, the developmental
outcome to strengthen MSEB was only marginially successful and is unlikely to be sustained.
The project has served to ensure that Mlaharaslhti-a studied the need to restructure its power sector,
but seemingly the State Govenmenlcit has decidcd that it is not necessary. The Bank has offered
on several occasions, last in October 1998 durinig thc visit of a highi-level Maharashtra delegation
to the Bank, to assist the Govement in the preparation and implciiiemetation of sector reforms.
17. Key Lessonis Learniedl. (Part l; paragraph 49, 50 and 51 ) Operational control by the state
government results in a financially weak SEB. 'I'hc state governmen11cit treats the SEB as a
department, and exerts direct and indirect control over mlost aspects of business - tariffs, staffing
and wag!es, operations, investmlcnit and Finiancilg. (O0M did not allow MSEB to raise tariffs for
certain categories of consumers. This resulteCd in thlC othlel consum.1ers cross-subsidizing these
consumers. Industry in Mahlarashtra is paying almost 70%, miorc thani the average cost of supply,
while agriculture pays only about I 0% of thie average cost of electricity production. GOM also
does not allow MSEB to take action agaillst non1-payilng consLumIers, resulting in a huge build up
of receivables which have eventually becomc un-collcctible. MSEB lacks the commercial
attitude needed to be successful in the business of distributioni, and unless private majority
ownership is brought about, the distributioni businiess will continlue to suffer from large-scale
revenue leakages.
18. The project did not result in the hopcd-for operational and financial improvements, and as
such it confirmed the position taken in the power sector by the South Asia Region. Beginning in



v -
the midL-1980s, the Bank had attempted to improve the performance of SEBs by direct
involvement at the state level. This approach was generally unsuccessful and the revitalization
of institutionally and financially weak SEBs did not turn out to be feasible. Projects failed to
meet expectations beyond the physical construction of facilities, and the Bank was forced to take
such strong measures as suspending disbursement and subsequently canceling loans. It has
become clear that a sustainable solution to the sector's problems requires a focus on restructuring
the state power sector rather than revitalizin.g the SEBs as attempted in the past This
restructuring includes, iuuter alia, the unbundling of monopoly utilities, corporatization,
establishment of independent regulatory commilission, tariff reforms, and privatization of
distribuition. This lessoIn has been applied in the on-going power sector reform projects in Orissa,
Haryarila and Andlhra Pradesh.



INDIA - SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT - LOAN 3498-IN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT IMPLENMENTATION ASSESSNIENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1. With a per capita consumption of only about 380 kWh per annum, electricity use in
India is among the lowest in the world. Demand by the country's 970 million population
is expanding at an average growth rate of 8% per annum, and massive investments in
adclitional generation, transmissioni and distribution will continuously be required. By the
end of the 1980s it had been recognized that central and state government funding of the
power sector investment programs would be in-sufficient, and that the state and central
government-owned utilities would have to rely increasingly on their own internal
resources and in particular on investments from the private sector. In 1991 GOI opened
the power sector in generation to private investment, by modifying the law so that
electricity production was removed from the list of activities reserved for the public
sector, in the Industrial Policy Resolution, and the 1948 Act was amended, so that many
of the regulatory disincentives to private investment in the power sector were lifted. In
particular these changes provided for ownership of generatinig companies by the private
sector, and for private generating companies and captive plants to sell power to the SEBs.
Foreign companies were also allowed to implement power projects. In October 1991,
GOI established a Board to promote, accelerate and clear private investment proposals in
power projects.
2. However, in 1992, when the Second Maharashtra Power Project was appraised, the
poor financial position of most state electricity boards (SEBs) led to the conclusion that
sig.nificant investmenits from the private sector were still some years away. The ability of
the SEBs to mobilize internal resources, was hampered by their weak financial
conditionis. The strongest of India's state power sectors and its utility, the Maharashtra
State Electricity Board (MSEB)', was however expected to be able to improve its
operations with Bank support. Thus the project was designed to assist the state develop
its private power policy and regulatory framework within the national guidelines, to
increase MSEB's generation and transmission capacity, and help the state contract with
private developers for nmajor power generation projects.
3. The specific developmental objectives of the project were to (a) support operational
eff'iciency improvements; (b) improve internal and external resource mobilization and (c)
promote institutional reforms, including the enhancement of the role of the private sector.
At the time of appraisal (and currently) MSEB operated the largest state power system in India. In 1992,
MSEB's system had a generating capacity of about 7,000 MW, with a transmission and distribution
nelwork of 500,000 km supplying 8½2 million consumers, served by an MSEB staff of about 120,000
regular and non-permnanent skilled employees. (See text and tables for further details.)



2
The results of the project were expected to be (i) increased power supplies and improved
quality of electricity services in Maharashtra; (ii) the strengthening of MSEB's finances
and managerial autonomy; (iii) more economic use of generating capacity through better
pricing policies, demand management and loss reduction measures; (iv) reductions in
reliance on the central government for financing investment requirements by increasing
MISEB's self-financing capabilities and improving external resource mobilization as well
as facilitating private sector investments; and (v) strengthening of MSEB's environmental
impact management capability.
4. The physical components of the project were consistent with the developmental
objectives, and included, as part of MSEB's least-cost development program: (a) the
construction of the final stage of the Chandrapur thermal power station by the addition of
a 500 MW coal-fired unit; (b) the construction of a 1,500 MW capacity, ±500 kV, HVDC
line from Chandrapur, in the east of Maharaslitra, 736 km to Padghe, near Mumbai
(Bombay), and the related termninal converter stations; (c) the implementation of an
accelerated electricity distribution reinforcemenit program aimed at reducing losses in
selected areas; and (d) consulting services to be provided in the following four areas: (i)
load research and preparation of electricity demand management measures; (ii)
development of MSEB's environmental managenmenit capabilities at the corporate level;
(iii) preparation of private power projects in Maharashtra; and (iv) institutional review of
the power sector in Maharashtra.
Re-evaliuationi of the project objectives
5. In 1993, the Bank published its Policy Paper The World Banik's Role in the Electric
Poiver Sector. Its findings were that the Bank had contributed to the rapid expansion of
the power sector in maniy developing countries, that access to service had increased, and
that power sectors generally perform better tlharn most other sectors. But, the Paper
concluded, overall power sector performance had deteriorated since the 1970s, brought
about by higlh oil prices, and overwhelming interest rates and inflation; declining access
to foreign loans and hugely insufficient sources of capital investment; inappropriate
policies on pricing; inadequate encouragemenit of demand-side management, and a scant
regard for environmental protection; with utilities operated through weak or non-existent
financial practices, because of govemnment interference, mainly resulting from costly and
inefficient, politically motivated attempts to supposedly solve social inequities, which
frequently favored the rich consumer of electricity at the cost of the generally poor
remainder of society (see also paragraph 9). Thus the Bank's power sector borrowers had
made little or no progress in achieving autonomy or financial and technical viability,
which would have enabled them to attract the much needed investment capital from
overseas and domestic, commercial and private sources, at least, not without the support
of sovereign guarantees.
6. Most, if not all, of these concerns applied (and apply) to the state power sector in
India. The Paper stated that the Bank would encourage private investment in the power
sector by using some of its financial resources to support programs that would facilitate



3
the involvement of private investors. Bank lending for electric power will in future focus
on countries with clear commitments to improving sector performance, and that the
requirement for power lending will be an explicit country movement towards the
establishment of a legal framework and regulatory processes satisfactory to the Bank. To
this end, in conjunction with other economy-wide initiatives, the Bank will require
cotntries to set up transparent regulatory processes that are clearly independent of power
suppliers and that avoid government interference in day-to-day power company
operations, regardless of whether the company is publicly or privately owned. In setting
out the Bank's future policy, the Paper confirmed that the objectives of the Second
Maharashtra Power Project had been correct. However, it became painfully clear that
much more fundamental actions were required to actually achieve these objectives in
Indlia's state power sector.
7. The Policy Paper, also, recognized that because of the capital intensity of the power
sector, an adequate private supply response would take time to materialize, and power
deficiencies would worsen. Therefore some transitional investment by the Bank would
be needed, but that this must be linked to progress in corporatization and
cornmercialization. Thus, the Paper also confirmed that the continued Bank support to
MSEB, for funding the transmission and generation components of the project, was
justified, when linked to hoped-for reform objectives. Again, it turned out that such
comnmercialization, or revitalization, was not possible in practice in India's state power
sector.
8. Beginning in the mid-1980s, the Bank had attempted to improve the performance of
SEBs by direct involvement at the state level. This approach was generally unsuccessful
and the revitalization of institutionally and financially weak SEBs did not turn out to be
feasible. Projects failed to meet expectations beyond the physical construction of
facilities and the Bank was forced to take such strong measures as suspending
disbursemiienit and subsequenitly canceling loans. Thus it became clear that a sustainable
solution to the sector's problems would need to focus on restructuring the state power
sector rather than revitalizing the SEBs as had been attempted in the past. The
restructuring, i)?ter alia, would need to involve the unbundling of monopoly utilities,
coiporatization, establishment of independent regulatory commission, tariff reforms, and
privatization of distribution, and with the inclusive goals of the distancing the sector from
government, changing the corporate structure, reducing losses and pilferage in the
system, leading eventually to a sector which generates revenues to the state.
9. Such programs of state power sector reform will benefit the poor by helping to lift the
burden the power sector has placed on the state government finances (which mostly the
poor indirectly have to bear), and simultaneously removing the power supply bottleneck,
which is restricting economic activity and growth. Poverty is widespread in India. In the
long term, its eradication is fundamentally dependent on growth and employment. By
imiproving electricity supply, the power sector reform programs will eliminate one of the
most serious constraints to higher economic growth. By bringing about a permanent shift
in public expenditure in the power sector, i.e. from being a major drain on state budgets
to being a contributor of funds, the programs provide for the social sectors and for other



4
priority areas of public investment. Thus the reformn in the power sector is among the
most important aspects of structural and fiscal reform in Indian states.
10. However, the political commitment for change in the power sector in Maharashtra,
despite the Bank's assessment at appraisal that GOM was agreeable to reform, was not
(and is still not) there. GOM seems as yet to see little merit in power sector reform;
probably because the sector is not facing an immediate financial crisis, and perhaps
because the majority of the state's consumers currently receive supplies of electricity that,
although subject to rotational supply cuts, are still among the best in India. The Bank had
helped finance two previous power sector operations2 in Maharashtra. The results of
these, but more so the substantial financial support provided by GOM has given MSEB
an aLpparent strength, which has enabled it to continue with its 'business as usual'. It
needs to be stressed here that this support has been given at the expense of investments
which should have taken place in other sectors, such as health and education. Indeed
MSEB should be making substantial returns to GOM on the enornous investments it has
macde in the sector over the last several decades.
11. 'The Staff Appraisal Report recognized that there was a risk that the pace of
institutional reform might be slow, and that has proved to be the case. To keep MSEB
viable, without appropriately increasing tariffs, GOM has converted large amounts of
MS'EB's debt to equity, and provided other subventions in the form of adjustment of
interest and lease rent payable.
12. With State Government support (and in some cases, Central Government guarantees)
MSEB has contracted energy from independent private producers (IPPs), including the
Dabhol project. In response to a 1993 GOI request to help finance Dabhol, the Bank
reviewed the project proposal, which was for a 2,015 MW combined cycled scheme. In a
Bank-financed report entitled Ani Econiomiiic Anialysis of the Dabhol Project, serious
concerns were raised to GOI and Maharashtra. These concerns were with regard to the
size., phasing and timing of the project, the commitment-to-utilization proposed3, and the
overall cost of the proposed scheme. However, GOI was also informned by the Bank that
it considered it worthwhile for GOI to pursue the benefits which LNG4-based generation,
by a reformulated Dabhol project, could bring to the overall efficiency of a growing
system in the Western Regions of India. The Bank also offered to provide technical
assistance for such a refornulation, but, GOM chose to proceed with the first phase (740
2 The Chandrapur Thermal Power Project (Ln. 2544-IN) in 1985, and the (First) Maharashtra Power
Project (Ln. 3096-IN) in 1989, which helped MSEB expand its generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, renovate and modernize existing power plants, and enhance its capabilities in many areas of
utility operation, management and project implementation.
3 The size and inflexibility of the proposal, i.e. that the scheme must be operated at no less than 90% annual
capacity factor would force MSEB to dispatch the schemes output in lieu of less expensive coal-fired and
gas-fired units in the dispatch order. Compounding this inefficiency, would be the added substantial cost
to MSEB of additional maintenance for these coal and gas-fired units, caused by thermally cycling them
with a rapidity for which they were not designed.
4 LNG - liquefied natural gas, to be imported from the Middle East.
'The Western Region network serves the electrical energy demands of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya
Pradesh.



5
MW) of the scheme, but without IBRD financial or technical support. This first phase is
being fueled by naphtha, and began commercial operations in May 1999. Plans are close
to completion for the second phase of the scheme, which it has been decided should have
a capacity, which will bring the total Dabhol output to 2,450 MW. When Phase II comes
on stream it is intended that the whole scheme will switch to the use of LNG.
13. Bolstered by State subsidization, MSEB has so far been able to finance and complete
most of its investments on or before schedule, including the Second Maharashtra Power
Project. The power sector in Maharashtra seemingly only in 1998 seriously began to be
constrained in raising finance for major capital investments, perhaps as a result of the
concerns signaled by the Bank's action to suspend disbursements from the loan, because
of MSEB's poor financial health. Further financial problems will be inevitable in
Maharashtra's power sector, when MSEB begins to receive power it has contracted to
purchase from the state's independenit power producers, when they first come on stream
in 1999. But these are predicamenits that GOM seems unwilling to start addressing, at
least for the time being.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
This section of the ICR includes an account of the sequence of events leading up to the
suspension in October 1996 of loan disbursements, which persisted until the loan closed
in June 1998. It also describes the parallel efforts made by the Bank in its attempt to
bring about power sector refornm in Maharashtra, the success of such efforts in other
States, and the partially successful efforts to effect the specific developmental objective
of the project, to strengthen MSEB's position.
Developmizeiital objectives anid sector policy
14. In 1992 Maharashtra committed to reviewing the issues and options in its power
sector, but preferred to do so without direct Bank assistance. Eventually, in 1994,
Maharashtra engaged, at its owIn cost, intemational consultants to advise it on how to
strengthen the position of MSEB, with a view to making changes in the sector to this
effect. But just after the first phase of the advice had been provided a change of
Government occurred, and the recommendations of the consultants were not heeded, and
MSEB's condition failed to improve. Receivables continued to be high, losses were not
contained, and Maharashtra prevented MSEB from operating in accordance with the
covenants. The February 1996 mid-term review of the project confirmed the Bank's
mounting concern, that MSEB's financial position was weak, and that several covenants
were not being fulfilled. In particular, MSEB's operations in FY1996 resulted in a net
loss of Rs. 2.8 billion (about US$80 million), without subsidy, and with receivables
standing at the end of that year at the equivalent of almost four months' sales. Also, in
FY1996 GOM did not pass on to MSEB the full amount of the loan that had been made
available to it by India under the Central Plan Assistance.



6
15. The Bank was concerned not so much with the covenant defaults' but with what they
signaled, i.e. MSEB's overall fragile financial health and the expected increasing pressure
when IPP projects come on stream. Besides not allowing MSEB to raise its tariffs to
adequate levels, and issuing directives not to pursue certain delinquent consumer classes,
GOM was also intending to announce free connections and free electricity to domestic
consumers who used less than 50 kWh per month, wvhich would have further weakened
MSEB's finances. This deteriorating position was especially disquieting, because, as per
the developmental objectives of the project, MSEB wvas expected to lead Maharashtra's
power sector into mobilizing the resources needed for the proposed privately-financed
power generating facilities in the State, for which GOI had agreed to provide a counter-
guarantee. MSEB's creditworthiness was also essential to enable it to raise the financing
for the supporting transmission and distribution infrastructure.
16. In May 1996, the Bank informed GOI and GOM  of its intention to suspend
disbursenments if GOM  did not address these fundamental issues so as to ensure that
MSEB complied with the covenanits. In response, GOM allowed MSEB to increase its
tariff, but only by 17%, instead of the 24% recommiaenided by MSEB and confirmed by
Bank staff as being necessar-y. This inadequate increase resulted in the projected MSEB
return for FY1997 being less thani that covenanted. By mid-August 1996, the Bank had
received confirmation from GOM that it had decided to provide MSEB with a non-plan
subsidy of Rs. 7.4 billion, retrospectively to bring MSEB's return for FY1996 to the
covenanted 4.5%. GOM acknowledged its concern at MSEB's weak position, and
informled the Bank that it had comnissioned V.G. Rajadhyaksha, Chairman of the
Advisory Board on State Public Sector Enterprises, to review MSEB's position and to
advise GOM on suitable measures to correct the situation. The Rajadihv cvksha Commnittee
Report was eventually produced in December 1996 and described a broad range of
me;3sures that GOM and MSEB could take to improve the sector's financial position. In
the nmeantimie, the Bank mounited several missions to Maharashtra, and used the
opportunity of visits by a Bank Managing Director and the Bank's President to draw the
attentioni of India and the GOM to the seriousness of the situation, and the concerns that
the Bank had regardinig MSEB's financially weak position.
6 Specifically, Maharashtra failed to comply with several covenants which required (a) GOM to re-lend to
MSEB a portion of the proceeds of Loan 3498-IN, made available to Maharashtra by India under the Plan;
(b) CiOM to cause MSEB to take measures to achieve an annual return of not less than the covenanted
4.5°/O of the average net value of its fixed assets in operation. In FY1996 MSEB's return was 1.3% (after
excluding that portion of the subsidy that could not be attributed to FY 1996); (c) GOM to cause MSEB to
reduce total commercial accounts receivable to less than the covenanted 2.5 months of revenues. At year-
end, MSEB's commercial accounts receivable stood at 4.2 months of revenues; and (d) GOM to ensure that
MSEB carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and public utility practices, and contrary to such requirement, Maharashtra had issued directives to MSEB
to delay the collection of arrears from certain categories of consumers, mainly agricultural, and not to
disconnect electricity supplies to them.



7
17. The Bank decided that the actions taken and/or promised by GOM were inadequate
and that covenants were still not being met7, and thus in its letter of October 22, 1996, the
Bank notified GOI of its decision to suspend disbursements for the remaining US$238
nmillion of the loan. In that letter the Bank proposed, as an exception to the covenant, that
in its calculation of its return for 1997, MSEB need not take the corresponding loss from
the write-off of bad debts into account, if GOM decided not to compensate MSEB for the
loss. In its December 1996 session of its Legislative Assembly, Maharashtra made
budgetary provisions to ensure that MSEB would comply with the covenants for FY1996
and FY1997 pertaining to its rate of return. But in March 1997, GOM was still taking the
position that the Rs. 7.3 billion of bad debts should not be written off.
18. At the same time as MSEB's performance was slipping, developments were taking
place in other state power sectors in India. Orissa launched its pioneerinig reform
program and in May 1996 the Bank approved a loan to support Orissa's program to
restructure its power sector. Since late 1993, at a steadily intensifying pace, the Bank had
also been in dialogue and working with several other states. In Haryana, this would lead,
in January 1998, to the approval of the Bank's first ever Adaptable Program Loan (APL).
A similar APL program was approved for Andhra Pradesh in February 1999.
[eliberations and preparations continue in Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh,
19. Against this emerging willingness to reform the power sector elsewhere in India, the
Bank, in April 1997, responded to a request from the GOM to lift the suspension, based
on the actions it had so far taken. The Bank pointed out that MSEB had only been able to
move towards compliance with the agreed covenants, with the help of accounting
adjustments. The Bank reiterated that the real issue was not about mere technical
compliance with covenants, but concerned the more fundamental issue regarding the
sustainable financial viability of MSEB and the Maharashtra power sector as a whole.
The Rajadlivakssha Committee Report had provided a detailed diagnosis of the
deficiencies of the sector and outlined measures that would be necessary to restore the
long-term financial viability of the state power sector. They included unbundling of
MSEB, privatization of its distribution functions, tariff adjustments, metering, and
independent regulation. The Bank offered to explore with GOM and MSEB whether the
C'ommittee's recommendations could be developed into a meaningful state power sector
reform program and indicated that it would be prepared to consider lifting the suspension
if-GOM provided the Bank with a meaningful reform program, as a first step to
establishing an efficient and financially strong power sector in Maharashtra.
20. Though in suspension, the loan remained in place, in an effort to be able to respond in
the event that Maharashtra opted to reform the sector, or comply with the existing loan
7By mid-October 1996, (a) evidence had not been provided that the funds of the loan had been passed on
by GOM to MSEB; (b) it was evident that MSEB's FY1997 return would be inadequate; (c) all of the
directives, interfering with MSEB's activities, had not been withdrawn; and (d) MSEB's receivables
position was unacceptable, and the Bank had opined that MSEB needed to acknowledge that a significant
portion of its accounts receivable were (and still are) unrecoverable, and that they be written off in
FY1997. MSEB had itself estimated that these bad debts amounted to about Rs. 7.3 billion (US$200
million equivalent).



8
covenants. Eventually in April 1998 GOM wrote to inform the Bank that reforms were
in the offing. However, analysis by the mission which the Bank mounted in response to
this information, indicated that the proposed reforms did not constitute sufficient basis for
lifting the suspension. The reforms which GOM proposed fell short both of the Bank's
expectations and the Government's own Rajadlnvaksha Conmmittee's recommendations.
With the cancellation of the undisbursed funds of US$237.7 million, the loan closed two
months later on June 30, 1998.
Achievement of specified objectives and project implementatioln
21. Olbjective (A) - to increase power supplies and improve the quality of electricity
services in Maharashtra.  The objective to increase power supplies was achieved
through the implementation by MSEB of the main component of the project. The coal-
fired '500 MW Chandrapur Unit 7 was competed, commissioned and connected to the grid
for commercial operation in October 1997, about three months ahead of the main
contraLctor's original contract schedule.
22. The objective to improve the quality of electrical services will also be achieved. The
implementation and commissioning by MSEB of the 736 km ±500 kV direct current
transmission line and the associated converter stations connecting the 2,500 MW
Chanclrapur power station complex to the Bombay area will be completed in early 1999.
This vvill result in reduced transmission losses, improved supplies and better voltages
levels in the metropolitan Bombay area. Grid system collapses, with both industrial and
commercially-devastating results, have been numerous in recent years, because of the
weak system linkages across Maharashtra. It is expected that MSEB will be able to
reduce practically to zero the incidence of these collapses through the operation of the
HVDC line between Chandrapur and Bombay.
23. Olbjective (B) - to strengthen MSEB's finances and managerial autonomy. This
objective was only marginally achieved. As detailed above, MSEB's financial position
improved only slightly. However, MSEB's autonomy improved with the withdrawal of
GOM's directives to MSEB's management not to pursue certain delinquent consumers.
No further similar directives have been issued to MSEB since September 1996. GOM
allowed MSEB to raise its tariffs, but belatedly. It also provided MSEB with subsidies to
ensure that it complied with the letter of the law of the covenants. But, MSEB's books of
account continued to paint a false picture of its strength, with the inclusion of four
monthis of receivables, to a great extent, formed of bad, doubtful and unrecoverable debts.
24. Olbjective (C) - to make more economic use of generating capacity through better
pricing policies, demand management and loss reduction measures.  This objective
was partially achieved. MSEB employed consultants, who advised MSEB on demand-
side rrmanagement procedures. But their recommendations stressed that in the absence of
appropriate tariffs, especially time-of-use tariffs, demand-side initiatives could only have
a marginal impact. The Rajadhyaksha Report also encouraged MSEB to employ
appropriate supply rates and time-of-use tariffs, but MSEB has not responded to these



9
recommendations. MSEB is carrying out a publicity campaign about the various demand
side initiatives recommended, but it is too early to judge the result.
25. Objective (D) - to reduce reliance on the central government for financing
investment requirements by increasing MSEB's self-financing capabilities and
improving external resource mobilization as well as facilitating private sector
investments. This objective was achieved only marginally, as MSEB continues to
depend on assistance from the government. While MSEB has been able to raise funds
from commercial sources, it has remainied largely dependent on the government and
central and state government-owned institutions such as insurance companies. MSEB's
self-financing capacity is coming increasingly under strain as operating, working capital
and debt servicing needs are increasing. With no improvement in efficiency, it is unlikely
that even in the future, MSEB will be able to substantially contribute internally towards
its capital investmenlt programii. Further details are contained in Appendix D.
26. Objective (E) - to strengthen MSEB's environmental impact management
capability. This objective was achieved. MSEB utilized loan funds to employed
consultants in September, 1994, to study MSEB's needs, and to advise and train staff, and
hlelp MSEB establish an Environmental Protection Cell (EPC). MSEB has since taken a
pro-active approach to environmental management activities, and is implementing these
at all of its thermnal power stations, not just at Chandrapur. The efforts of the EPC to-date
are impressive. MSEB has undertaken various environmental impacts studies, and where
appropriate has implemented the results. These have included coal quality impacts on
power station financial and environmental performnance, comparison of upstream and
downstream environmental controls, alternative boiler technologies and an optimization
analysis of coal washer usage and location, water management systems redesign and
construction to minimizes water usage and for "zero discharge" of surface effluent; air
emissions control improvements, *ash utilization studies and pilot projects; occupational
health and safety audits, the institution of a safety audit and safety rating system,
environmental audits; environmental data base, dispersion modeling, and disaster
management plans. Further details are contained in Appendix B. The Chandrapur Unit
No. 7 design included a stack with a height of 275 meters, which has helped with
emissions dispersion, and an electrostatic precipitator with an efficiency to arrest over
99.9% of particulates.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
27. Developmental objective One main factor affecting the sector was the interference of
GOM resulting in MSEB's inability to perform as a commercial utility. GOM has, on a
number of occasions, issued directives that have restricted MSEB from operating
commercially. MSEB's tariffs are decided by GOM, and are typically heavily influenced
by political considerations. Even the timings of tariff increases are driven by political
constraints. As a result of these encumbrances, MSEB has not been able to effectively
collect the dues that certain categories of consumers owe to it for sale of power. MSEB's
tariffs are highly distorted, with agricultural and domestic consumers paying tariffs lower
than the average cost of supply. Agriculture pays, on average, just Rs. 0.21/ kWh (only



10
about 10% of the average cost of supply). Thus MSEB continues to remain dependent on
subsidies from GOM. In an attempt to limit GOM's margin of interference, the Bank
insisted that the financial covenants, agreed with GOM, be complied with. Reality
proved that it was an impossible task, and that only a complete restructuring of the state's
power sector could achieve this.
28. Financial managenment  At the time the Bank decided to suspend India's rights to
access Loan 3498-IN, MSEB and GOM were not in compliance with a number of
covenants (paragraph 15 above). MSEB was not meeting the accounts receivables
covenant and the rate of return covenant, while GOM had failed to pass on the proceeds
of the Bank loan to MSEB. While some of these defaults were partially the outcome of
traditionally poor financial management practices in both MSEB as well as GOM, they
were also symptomatic of a larger malaise affecting most states, i.e., that of a lack of
commercial accountability in the state government as well as in the SEB resulting from
years of political interference in most aspects of the operational, administrative and
financial functioning of the power sector.
29. MSEB is governed by the Electricity (Supply) (Annual Accounts) Rules, 1985, which
apply to all the SEBs in the country. Though these rules are exhaustive in nature, they
allow significant flexibility to the SEBs to set their own financial policies. MSEB thus,
did not make adequate provisions for bad and doubtful debts even though it knew that a
significant portion of its receivables were uncollectible, and showed subsidies in its
income statement without properly accounting for them. Thle Bank, though it accepted
the Electricity (Supply) (Annual Accounts) Rules, 1985, expected MSEB to follow
prudent financial policies. Although MSEB lacks strategic financial planning, it does
well in managing its day-to-day working capital position. As is common in India,
separate project account audit reports were not submitted to the Bank. MSEB however,
regulairly furnished audited financial statements which were consolidated from project
accounts.
30. Procuremnent    Procurement of the seventeen ICB packages, which were to be
financed from the loan, proceeded in accordance with the implementation of the 500 MW
coal-fired Chandrapur Unit 7, which was completed ahead of schedule.
31. However, the completion of the ±500 kV HVDC line, and the commissioning of it
and its associated converter terminal substations was delayed, because of delays in the
exercise to procure the suspension insulators for the transmission line. These were to be
financed from the loan, and procured via international bidding procedures. In accordance
with its consultant's advice, MSEB decided to use glass or porcelain insulators, which
had been used extensively for HVDC lines. This decision was objected to by a
manufacturer of composite insulators. Because world-wide experience on HVDC lines
with this type of insulator was very limited, the Bank decided to employ consultants to
study and advise whether the objection should be upheld, and if so to encourage MSEB to
allow bidders to offer composites.



11
32. While the study was being performed, and so as not to delay construction of the line,
the Bank agreed to finance enough glass or porcelain insulators to support about half of
the line length. MSEB awarded this contract to the lowest bidder for the supply of
porcelain insulators. The consultants eventually recommended that composite insulators,
although possibly having a shorter life than glass or porcelain, could be specified,
manufactured, tested and maintained to be as reliable as glass or porcelain, but that the
selection would need to be based on present worth analysis comparing the various bids
received. The consultant's study and the exercise to design a procedure to evaluate the
bids, which MSEB reluctantly incorporated into the bidding documents, took more than
two years to complete. In the meantime, the Bank suspended India's right to make
clisbursements for the loan, and MSEB financed the procurement of the remaining
insulators from its own resources, awarding the contract to the manufacturer of glass
insulators. As a result of this protracted exercise, the line's completion was delayed by
about nine months.
33. Costs. Project cost estimates were prepared at appraisal on the basis of international
prices of various plant components. The final cost of the project is summarized in Table
SA. The cost of Chandrapur unit 7 was about US$ 317 million equivalent compared with
US$ 462 million estimated at appraisal in 1992. The considerable decrease in the cost in
clollar terms is attributed to the devaluation of the rupee (Rs. 25.5 to the US$ at appraisal
in 1992, which by closure was about Rs. 40 to the US$) linked to the fact that most of
contracts were awarded, following international competitive bidding, to Indian suppliers,
wvho were well able to match the appropriate standards of the specifications, which MSEB
had included in the bidding documents. The cost of the HVDC component increased to
about US$ 444 million from the US$ 315 million estimated at appraisal, mainly because
of the increase in the cost, in dollar terms, of the converter terminals, which were
supplied from Europe.
34. Savings, Cancellationis, and Closing Date. Because most contracts were awarded to
local suppliers, and because of the devaluation of the Rupee during the project
implementation period, the costs in dollar terms of the Bank-funded items were
significantly lower than the appraisal estimates (see Table 8A). However, disbursements
from the loan were suspended in October 1996, when only US$ 112.3 million had been
disbursed. The suspension was not lifted, and the loan closed as originally scheduled on
June 30, 1998, when US$ 233.7 million was cancelled.
35. Rate of Return. At appraisal, the IERR for the investment program of the Western
Region, of which the project is part, were estimated to be about 3 percent and 15 percent,
respectively, without and with consumer surplus. Based on MSEB's present tariffs , the
ElIRR of the project is calculated (see Table 9) to be 15 percent, which the same as the
appraisal estimate. However, in a scenario where MSEB's demand projections fail to
materialize in full, and its high-cost IPPs start generating and oust its older, cheaper
plants, the EIRR would be lower.
36. Environmental protection. Details of how MSEB is pro-actively moving to improve
the impacts its thermal stations have on the environment are contained in Appendix B.



12
37. Resettlement and rehabilitation. The extension of the Chandrapur power station did
not involve any new displacement of population because adequate space was already
available on the existing plant site for the installation of the seventh and last unit, and no
new land needed to be acquired. However, the construction of units 5 and 6, and the need
for land for ash disposal ponds, had led to the displacement of about 800 families to
whom a rehabilitation compensation (in addition to the compensation for land/house
structure acquisition, when applicable) had been paid. Although this cash compensation
had enabled a large number of families to resettle in satisfactory conditions, some
families still remained to be fully resettled and rehabilitated. Thus the subject project was
used as a vehicle to accurately assess the number of people affected by the construction of
units 5 and 6, and to evaluate their needs, and to correct any shortcomings in the
resettlement and rehabilitation.
38. A study by consultants identified that 787 families were displaced. By loan closing
350 of these families had been resettled to resettlement villages, or had resettled to
locations of their own choice. The remaining families have not relocated, and they
continuie to practice cultivation on the land they previously owned and which MSEB has
acquired from them, but will not need for ash disposal for several years yet. MSEB has
carefully detailed and recorded the acquisitions, and agreed the details with the families.
39. MSEB has agreed to resettle the remaining families, as and when (about four years
hence) the land is required for ash disposal. The South Asia Region will budget for
sufficient staff resources to review the situation on an annual basis, and when
resettlement is completed will recommend that MSEB undertake an impact evaluation
study to deternine the levels of living standards amongst the affected persons related to
the known base data.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40. The physical achievements of the project are highly likely to be sustained.
Operatlional plans to ensure the sustainability of the project have been discussed and
agreed with MSEB's management. These include the provision under the various
contracts of start-up spares for the first few years of the project's life, and through the
annual budget of adequate funds for the appropriate maintenance and operation of the
generation and transmission plant and equipment. MSEB has sufficient suitably qualified
staff to operate and maintain the equipment through its design life.
41. The marginal improvements in MSEB's financial position brought about in 1996,
following the threat to suspend and the suspension, have been sustained. GOM has not
since issued instructions to MSEB with regard to any particular consumer groups; and a
tariff increase of 13%, mainly falling on industrial consumers, was allowed in 1998.
However, MSEB's position continues to be weak, and dependant on Government
subsidies. Thus the sector is unlikely to be able to attract investments in the amounts
needed for electricity developments to support Maharashtra's economic development. It
is doubtful if the position will improve unless Maharashtra enters into a program of



13
reform, to implement the recommendations contained in the Rajadhivakslha Comm710ittee
Report.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
42. Identtification atnd appraisal    The performance of the Bank, in helping MSEB
identify a suitable package of project components was satisfactory. Advice provided to
Maharashtra as to how it should reform its power sector, preceded the formal Bank Policy
on power sector reform, which was published about a year later. In 1992, when the
project was appraised, the poor financial position of most state electricity boards (SEBs)
led to the conclusion that significant investments from the private sector were still some
years away. The ability of the SEBs to mobilize internal resources, was hampered by
their weak financial conditions. However, the strongest of India's state power sectors
and its utility, the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) was expected to be able to
improve its operations with Bank support. Thus the project was designed to assist the
,state develop its private power policy and regulatory framework within the national
guidelines, to increase MSEB's genieratioln and transmission capacity, and help the state
contract with private developers for major power generation projects. The Staff
Appraisal Report recognized that there was a risk that the pace of institutional reform in
Maharashtra might be slow, and that has proved to be the case.
43. Suipervisioni  During project implementation, the Bank successfully maintained a
good working relationship with GOI, GOM and MSEB. Procurement issues, including
numerous complaints from bidders in the ICB process were handled as expeditiously as
their complexities allowed. The insulator procurement issue (paragraph 27), for which it
was decided the Bank should seek outside advise, took about a year to resolve. A total of
eleven supervision missions were fielded. Problems were identified solutions were
developed, and action plans were agreed with MSEB for their resolution. Advice was
provided to MSEB in the areas of environmental protection, financial management, and
project management and control. This included advice and guidance on the installation of
a computer-aided implementation program, which undoubtedly helped MSEB
successfully implement, and ahead of schedule, the main component of the project. A
mid term review of the project took place in February 1996, which confirmed the Bank's
concerns over MSEB's weak financial position, and eventually led to the suspension in
an attempt to ensure that the concems were addressed. During the supervision of the
project the Bank continued to hold a policy dialogue with GOM and MSEB on the
reforms that would be required to improve the operations and finances of the sector.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44. MSEB prepared well a least-cost, economical and sustainable project. MSEB
utilized the experience it had acquired in designing and engineering the two 500 MW
thermal units, which had been constructed at Chandrapur (Units 5 and 6). Similarly,
NMSEB's extensive experience at procuring and building 400 kV transmission lines and
substations, enabled it successfully design and construct, through the use of local erection
contractors, the ±500 kV HVDC line, and through European contractors in joint venture
with India partners, the associated AC-DC and DC-AC converter sub-stations. MSEB 's



14
performance in project management and implementation was excellent, and resulted in
the completion of the main component on time and under budget.
45. Compliance by Maharashtra and by MSEB with several covenants of the loan was
unsatisfactory. Interference by the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) in the operations
of MSEB resulted in MSEB being unable to perform as a commercial utility. In
contravention of the covenants, wlhichI required that GOM ensure that MSEB operates
along commercial lines, GOM did not allow MSEB to charge appropriate tariffs and
insisted (and insists) that MSEB provide low and heavily subsidized tariffs to agriculture
users and to a large rural cooperative, which in turn meant placing a huge burden on
industrial consumers, especially when these favored consumer groups fail to pay.
Inadequate and untimely tariff increases caused severe strain on MSEB's finances.
MSEB was also restricted from taking much needed actions to recover dues from non-
paying consumers leading to an ever increasing burden of receivables, most of which,
because of its age, has now become an uncollectable bad debt. In addition, GOM issued
directives to MSEB to provide and maintain additional electricity supplies to agricultural
users, leading to shortages for other paying categories of consumers. Besides weakening
MSEB finanicially, this operational interference by GOM has over the years led to a lack
of accountability in MSEB, and a slack-ening of commercial discipline.
G. ASSESSNIENT OF PROJECT OUTCONIE
46. The results of the project are mixed. The physical components of the project were
completed, mainly ahead of time and under budget, and the resulting benefits will be
sustained. However, the developmiienital outcome to strengthen MSEB was only
marginally successful and is unlikely to be sustained. However, the project has served to
ensure that Maharashtra studied the need to restructure its power sector, but seemingly it
has decided that it is not necessary yet. The Bank has offered on several occasions, last in
October 1998 during the visit of a high-level Maharashtra delegation to the Bank, to
assist ithe Government in the preparation and implementation of sector reforms.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
47. MSEB is one of the better performing SEBs, yet its financial position is precarious
and its future outlook is alarming, threatening increasingly to constrain state finances and
economic development in Maharashtra. The makings of a deep crisis are very much
evident. The scope for continuing and increasing Government subsidy support mainly on
the basis of adjustments such as debt to equity conversions, and loan and equity write-
offs, is being exhausted. The Government's own financial position does not allow large
cash subsidies. The Bank has urged the Government to start addressing this looming
power and fiscal crisis before it becomes an acute reality. Maharashtra Government could
examine the experience of Andhra Pradesh in this respect. The AP Government has
recently launched a comprehensive program of reforms in the power sector, but only after
APSEB had reached a crisis situation. MSEB is headed towards a similar crisis, and
MSEB's burden on the Government is rising. It would be much easier to launch and



15
implement a comprehensive power sector reform programn now, rather than 3-5 years
down the line when options are limited and implementing them has become much more
dlifficult.
48. The Government is in the process of establishing a tariff commission under the
central Electricity Regulatory Commissions Act. This is a good start, as an effort to
reduce politicization in tariff setting,, but it is a limited one because such a commission
would not have the proper power with a legal basis to regulate as required all the aspects
of the sector. Indeed, much more is needed for the power sector to become efficient and
creditworthy, and able to raise its finanicing needs without state subsidies and central
government guarantees. In the Bank's view, distribution privatization and independent
regulation of such private utilities are the only effective means to addressing the
f'undamental managerial, operational and financial challenges in India's state power
systems. The Bank would be ready to help, should the Govemment wish to utilize Bank
technical and financial assistance to launch and implement a comprehensive program of
power reformn.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
49. Operational control by the state governments results in SEBs becoming incapable of
taking commercial decisions. The state government treats the SEB as a department, and
exerts direct and indirect control over most aspects of the SEB's business - tariffs, staffing
and wages, operations, investment and financing. GOM did not allow MSEB to raise
tariffs for certain categories of consumers. This resulted in the other consumers cross-
subsidizing these consumers. GOM also does not allow MSEB to take action against
non-paying consumers, resulting in a huge build up of receivables which have eventually
become collectible. MSEB lacks the commercial attitude needed to be successful in the
business of distribution, and unless private majority ownership is brought in, the
distribution business will continue to suffer from large-scale revenue leakages. The
recent decision of GOM to create a state tariff commission denotes some progress, but it
will by no means be adequate to serve as a basis for a comprehensive reform program.
50. The project did not result in the hoped-for operational and financial improvements,
and as such it confirmed the position taken in the power sector by the South Asia Region.
Beginning in the mid-1980s, the Bank had attempted to improve the performance of
SEBs by direct involvement at the state level. This approach was generally unsuccessful
and the revitalization of institutionally and financially weak SEBs did not turn out to be
f'easible. Projects failed to meet expectations beyond the physical construction of
f'acilities, and the Bank was forced to take such strong measures as suspending
clisbursement and subsequently canceling loans. It has become clear that a sustainable
solution to the sector's problems requires a focus on addressing the root causes of the
crisis:- the politicization of decisions, non-technical losses due to theft, lack of a
commercial culture, which can be achieved only through structuring the state power
sector, rather than revitalizing the SEBs as attempted in the past This restructuring
includes, initer alia, the unbundling of monopoly utilities, corporatization, establishment



16
of independent regulatory commission, tariff reforms, and privatization of distribution.
This lesson has been applied in the on-going power sector reform projects in Orissa,
Haryana and Andhra Pradesh.
51. Several useful lessons were learned in the implementation of the R&R program
(Appendix C; paragraph 13): (a) The success of the relocation program under this project
is partly attributed to self-relocation. (b) There was no approved plan for
implernentation of R&R program at the beginning of the project. An advanced and
upstream plan including a well laid out time-table, a committed budget as part of the
overall cost of the project, and proper institutional arrangements are necessary for speedy
and successful implementation of such a program. (c) Decisions related to resettlement
implernentation should take into account people's needs and their concerns, for successful
implernentation via a process of public consultation. (d) Intense and continued Bank
supervision during implementation will contribute significantly in the timely
implernentation of an R&R program. (e) The unit of entitlement for economic
rehabilitation should be the adult individual rather than families.



17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                   Substantial              Partial                Negligible           N Not applicable
ceconomic policies                                                   -                                           ___
Sctor policies
1Financial objectives
Institutional dcvelopment
Physical objectives                                                                                                      -           i
Poverty reduction
Gender issues                                                                                                     I
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                                                                                                         __t_
Private sector development
Otlici-
Other                                  1         Likely                 Unlikely                Uncertain
B. P'roject Sustainability                                                                                        I
C. Bank performance                         Highly Satisfactory   -   Satisfactory       Marginally satisfactory       Deficient
Identification
-___  - - ---- -  -   ---                 - ______ ----., -t--------__-_-___  _
IPreparation assistance                  _       _,_               -__ _______                             _                _
Appraisal                                                         _____
Supervision
D. Borrower performance                    Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Marginally satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation (physical elements)
i                         I           -_ _ _    .   _      _      _     _        _
Implementation ( physical elements)
Covenant compliance  -                 |
Operation (physical elements)          |                                .              -
Highly satisfactory       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory             Highly
unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome                                         -



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Crediit Title                 Purpose                        Year of Approval  Status
IBRD Loans
Preceding Operations
Ramagundam Thermal                 3x200 MW                       January 1979        Complete
Farakka Thermal                    3x200 MW                       June 1980           Complete
Second Ramagundam Thermal          3x500 MW                       December 1981       Complete
Central Power Transmission         400k\'-220kV tranismission     May 1983            Complete
Second Farakka Thermal             2x500 MW                       Junle 1984          Complete
Rihand Power Transmissioni         500kV HVDC+400kV AC tr.        May 1985            Complete
Combined Cycle Power               413 MW (Anta)                  April 1986          Complete
Capital Power Supply               4x210 MW (Dadri)               June 1987           Complete
Talcher Thermal                    2x500 MW                       June 1987           Complete
Chandrapur (Maharashtra)           2x500 MW                       May 1985            Complete
Nathpa Jhak:ri                     6x250 MW                       January 1989        Under
construction
(First) Maharashtra Power          4x250 MW (Koyna hydro)         May 1989            Under
conistlruction
Following Operations
Orissa Power Sector Restructurinii  Transmission and Distribution  May 1996           Under-
imiplementation
Haryana Po,wer APL I               Transmission and Distributioni    January 1998     Under
implementation
Total IBRD Loans:                    14
IDA Credits
Preceding Operations
Singrauli Thermal                  3x200 MW                       April 1977          Complete
Ramagundam Thermal                 3x200 MW                       January 1979        Complete
Korba Thermal                      3x200 MW                       April 1970          Complete
Second Sinarauli Thermal           2x500 MW                       May 1980            Complete
Farakka Thermal                    3x200 MW                       June 1980           Complete
Second Korba Thermal               3x200 MW                       July 1981           Complete
Total IDA Credits:                    6
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                            Date planned                 Date actual
Identification                                       11/1990                     11/1990
Preparation                                          6/1991                      6/1991
Appraisal                                            02/192                      02/1992
Negotiations                                       05/18/1992                  05/22/1992
Board presentation                                 06/23/1992                  06/03/1992
Signing                                             07/8/1992                  07/08/1992
Effectiveniess                                     02/28/1993                  06/18/1993
Project completion (physical elements)             06/30/1997                   10/01/1997
Loan closing                                       06/30/1998                  06/30/1998



19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
~Appraisal estimate (US$ million)              39.8         74.7         146.5        259.7        342.8         350.0
Actual (US$ miHion)                            0.0          20.3         51.5          96.1        112.3         112.3
Actual as %  of estimate (%)                    0            27           34            37           33           32
Pate of final disbursement                  _                                                    12/10/19961
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Construction and Commissioning
SAR       Contract    Actual      SAR       Contract   Actual         SAR      Contraci  Actual
Unit 7 (500 MW)       6/92         1/94       1/94       3/97        7/97        1/97       6/97        5/97       3/97
+/- 500 kV
transmission
Pole 1            5/92        5/94       5/94       10/96       4/98        2/99        11/96       5/98       3/99
Pole 2            5/92        5/94       5/94       2/97        6/98        4/99        3/97        7/98      5/99
Table 6: Key System  Indicators
1991/2     199213       1993/4      1994/5       1995/6     1996/7       1997/8
State system annual load factor %          73.2        75.4        72.0        75.9         77.9        78.0         nya
MSEB thermal plant availability factor %   77.4        77.7        79.8        81.9         83.8        85.2         84.2
Reserve margin MW                                                            Nil
MSEB coal consumption (kg/kWh)            0.770       0.800       0.800       0.798        0.804       0.788        0.800
Number of system collapses 1/                 3           1           1           -            7           3            1
MSEB installed capacity (MW)              7,503       7,503       7,593       7,725        7,725       7,725        8,281
MSEB annual generation (GWh)             31,360      31,030      34,110      38,210       39,390      41,020       41,630
MSEB annual sales (GWh)                              30,960      34,560      37,760       41,620      42,700         nya
Total losses %                             15.7        15.3        15.2        15.3         15.4        15.3         nya
MSEB average tariff incomep/kWh             107         136         150         161          169         199         213
MSEB income from sales Rs. crores         3,285       4,306       5,202       6,081        7,034       8,498        9,888
MSEB rate of return %                       3.0         5.2         4.8         4.7          4.8         4.5          4.5
Self financing ratio                       11.6        27.5        11.2        38.3         36.0        53.6         44.9
Receivables (days)                          138         137         139         134          128         112         107
Collections to billing ratio                n/a         n/a        93.2        94.3         94.4        92.5         91.6
Payables (days)                             140         153          57          58           54          54          52
Debt service ratio                         0.97        1.20        1.18        1.41          1.55       1.39         nya
No. of consumers (million)                 8.84        9.27        9.75       10.27        10.87       11.42         nya
No. employees (regular)                 107,450     111,514     111,514     111,514       110,662    110,874      110,681
Consumers/employee                         82.2        83.1        87.4        92.1          98.3       103.0        nya
Employee/MW installed                      14.3        14.9        14.7        14.4          14.3        14.4        13.4
Transmission I IlkV & above (km)        177,000           -           -           -       208,887    214,593         nya
Distribution belowll 1kV(kmn)           317,000           ---                             396,113    397,348         nya
Transmission s/s capacity (MVA)          43,000           ---                              43,542     46,163         nya,
1/ System collapses will likely reduce in number with commissioning in 1999 of±500 kV HVDC line, between
Chandrapur and Bombay.



20
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
MSE]B chose to finance from its own resources the studies aimed at strengthening its
financial position. The State Govemment commissioned the Rajadhyaksha Committee to
review and advise it on the need to reform the sector (see text at Part 1, paragraphs 12-17).
The loan financed work by consultants to strengthen MSEB's environmental
capabilities. The consultant began work in September, 1994, and the study and training
was completed in 1996. (see text at Part 1, paragraph 24.) Details are contained in
Appendix B.
The loan also financed consultants, who advised MSEB regarding Demand Side
Management (see text at Part 1, paragraph 22).
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (Rs.m)       Actual (Rs. m)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign    Total
Chandrapur Unit 7               5,781    8,526   14,307    8,569    3,843    12,050
+/- 500 kV line and             4,628    6,773   11,401    9,440    7,452    16,892
converter stations
Distribution expansion          2,293    1,668   3,961    3,400        -     3,400
Consultancy studies                18       51      69       10      240       250
Total Project Cost (Rs. m)      12,720   17,018   29,738   21,417   11,175    32,592
Ttal from Cost                             54 /  54  9  .    4       294-      858
Interest During Construction    4,438    4,168    8,606   b/       b/       b/
Total Financing Required       17,158   21,186   38,344
a/ Bank staff estirnates
b/ Not provided by MSEB
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)           Actual c/ (US$m)
Source           Local    Foreign      Total       Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                            -       350        350          8       104      112
Export credits                  -       200        200           -      190      190
PFC                             -         -           -        31          -      31
ILFS                                 -                -       111                111
MSEB/GOM                     409          -        409        414          -    414
Total d/                     409        550        959        564       294      858
c/ Not provided by MSEB, but based on Bank staff estimates by updating 1996 mid-term mission review
and analysis.
d/ Excludes interest during construction (see footnote b/ above).



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rs. Million)
FY             Chandrapur Unit 7              T&D            TOTAL            Netj    lncr.
Capital cost   O&M     Fuell Capital cost   O&MI  COST    Generation   Revenue Net Benefits
1.992               -
1993                1                           36                  37                    -        (37)
1.994             395                         235                  630                    -       (630)
1995              786                        2,748               3,534                    -    (3,534)
1]996           1,741                        1,530               3,271                    -    (3,271)
11997           2,535                        1,964               4,499                    -    (4,499)
L1998           2,624                        1,781               4,405                    -    (4,405)
:1999           1,558      193     150       6,427      74       8,401       256        588     (7,812)
2000                 -     193   1,794         856      78       2,921      3,069     7,058       4,138
2001                 -     193   1,794         856      82       2,925      3,069     7,058       4,133
2002                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2003                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2004                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2005                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2006                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2007                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2008                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,9891
2009                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2010                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
:2011               -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2012                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
:2013               -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
:2014                -     193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2015                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2016                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2017                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2018                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2019                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2020                 -     193   1,794           -       82      2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2021                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
2022                -      193   1,794           -      82       2,069      3,069     7,058       4,989
Internal Economic Rate of Return: 15 percent.
At appraisal, the IERRs for the investment program of the Westem Region, of which the project is part, were estimated to be about 3
percent and 15 percent, respectively, without and with consumer surplus. Based on MSEB's tariffs, current in 1998, the EIRR of the
project is calculated to be 15 percent, which is the same as the appraisal estimate.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan Agreement                        DescApdon of Covenant                        Covenant Stats
2.02 (b)          GOI to open and maintain a Special Deposit Account in dollars with the    Complied with
Reserve Bank of India.
3.04              GOI to take actions to ensure adequate coal supplies for the efficient  Complied with
operation of the project's power plant.
4.01 (b) (ii)     GOM shall, jointly with the Bank, carry out a mid-term review in the 3rd   Performed in
year of the project to assess overall progress of the project.   February 1996
Project 4greemnent                     Descripton of Covenant                      Covenant Status
2.02              GOM/MSEB onlending arrangement                                   Complied with
4.01 (b) (ii)     GOM: Project account to be audited and audit report to be furnished to  Complied with
the Bank no later than 9 months after FY end
4.04              MSEB to make necessary financial arrangements for the acquisition and    Complied with
installation of HVDC terminals required under Part A(ii) of the project
Schedule 2.2      GOM shall (a) establish a commission to review institutional     (a) complied with
arrangements in the power sector in Maharashtra, and (b) not later than    in 1994
Dec. 31, 1993, discuss the findings and recommendations of the said  (b) complied with
commnission with the Bank.                                       in 1996
Schedule 2.3      GOM shall, jointly with the Bank, carry out a mid-term review in the 3rd   Performed in
year of the project to assess overall progress of the project    February 1996
Schedule 2.3      MSEB to furnish to the Bank no later than March 31 Of each year, a work   Complied with
plan, including the list of distribution lines and substations to be
constructed under the project in the following year
Schedule 2.5      MSEB to implement various environmental mitigatory measures at   Complied with
Chandrapur, including inter alia, the implementation of a waste water
treatment & management scheme, the installation of a dust suppression
acquisition and maintenance of various monitoring equipment.
3.01 (iii)        MSEB to take out insurance against risks in such amounts as will be  Complied with
consistent with appropriate practices.
3.02 (i)          Ln 3498-TN: MSEB to reduce commercial receivables (less any disputed   Not complied
amounts) to less than 2.5 months of revenue.                     with
3.02 (ii)         MSEB to reduce commercial payables to less than 2.0 months of    Complied with
consumption of fuel and consumables, plus purchase of power.
4.02 (c)          MSEB to furnish to the Bank, certified financial statements within 9  Complied with
months of FY end, and auditor's report within 12 months.
4.03 (a) (i)      MSEB to generate funds from internal sources (excluding GOM       Complied with
subsidies) equivalent to not less than 20% in FY93 and FY94, and 25%
from FY95 onwards, of the annual average of its capital expenditure
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for the previous, current and
following fiscal year.
4.03 (a) (ii)     MSEB to earn a return on net fixed assets of no less than 4.5% from  Complied vwith
FY93 onwards.
4.04               MSEB to ensure that Debt Service Coverage is at least 1.0 in FY90/91  Complied with
and 1.2 thereafter
Schedule 2.1      MSEB to furnish to the Bank, no later than Dec. 31 of each year, annual   Complied with
revisions to the 5-year revolving capital investment and associated
financing plan of MSEB



23
Table - 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                            Comments on lack of compliance
All Bank policies were complied with, with the exception of OP/BP 10.02 (see text at paragraph 29). For
any future operations with state governments or utilities, the Bank will need to carefully address financial
management issues, taking full cognizance of the guidance contained in OP/BP 10.02.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                  Planned                   Revised                    Actual
Weeks          USS        Weeks         USS         Weeks       US5
('000)
Through Appraisal                                                                         57.0       141.6
Appraisal-Board                                                                           52.3       177.7
Board-Effectiveness                                                                       48.0       131.6
Supervision                         90*                                                   91.8      343.3
Completion                           7*                         14.5         32.5         14.5       32.5
TO]TAL                                                                                   263.6       826.7
estimates in SAR
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage ot P roject   Month,     No. oI     Days in                      Spccialization (see key below)
Cycle               Year       P'ersons    ticid
Identification        M /90        i          3      FA
Pre-appraisal         09/91        6          1 2    FA,FA,E,E,ECON,ENV
12/91        l         5       ENVSP
Appraisal             02/92        7 7        18     FA,FA,ENVS,E,E,IT,ES,
To effcctiveness      06/92        2          2      FA/ES
Stage of Project    Month/    No. ot      Days in    Specialization            Performance Rating
Cycle               Year       Persons    field                                 Implementation     Development
Supervision 1         07/93        3          7      ES,FA,FA                          I                 S
Suprervision 2       03/94         3          5      E.FA.ENV                          I                 S
Supervision 3         11/94        2          5      E,E                               I                 S
Supervision 4         3/95         3          5      E,E,IT                            I                 S
Supervision 5         5195         1          4      SOC                               I                 S
Supervision 5         11/95        3          5      E,E,FA                            I                 S
Supervision 6**       2/96         6          9      E,E,FA,FA,ENV,SOC                 I                 U
Supervision 7         9/96         1          4      ES                                I                 U
Supervision 8         11/96        3          5      E,E,FA                            I                 U
Supervision 9         6/97         1          7      E                                 1                 U
Supervision 10        1/98         2          4      E,SOC                             I                 U
Supervision Il***     6/98         5          5      E,E,ES,FA,SOC                     I                 U
ICR review mssn       11/98        4          5      E,FA,FA,SOC                      I                 U
FA - financial analyst; E - engineer; Econ - economist; IT - information technology specialist; ES - energy specialist;
SOC - sociologist; ENV - environmental protection specialist
i* - mid term review
- and ICR mission



24
APPENDIX A
Project Review from Borrower's Perspectives
A.    PREFACE
1. This is the Borrower's perspective part of the Implementation Completion Report [ICR] for the
Second Maharashtra Power Project [partly] covered under financing of IBRD Loan 3498-IN for
an amount equivalent of US$350 million, The project has been an important and ambitious one,
having multiple targets for the executing agency [MSEB]. The physical objectives were to
enhance MSEB's capability/efficiency in terms of additional power generation, evacuation of
power with reduced transmission losses, and finally a stabilized and more reliable distribution
system. Implementation of this project has become significant as it has sustained against facing
consequences of financial constraints, during the time of suspension. The balance cost of the
project has been arranged through internal resources and PFC financing.
B.    A CHIEVEMIENT OF OBJECTI VES
2. Providing a least-cost effective power addition in the Western region has been successfully
achieved, by way of commissioning Chandrapur Unit 7 of 500 MW, in a record time of 44
months [as compared with other 500 MW Units so far commissioned in India].
3. The power evacuation from the Eastern part to the Western part of Maharashtra is expected to
be achieved soon with completion of HVDC project, the least-cost option of HVDC Transmission
Link between Chandrapur and Padaghe. With the present progress, the HVDC project is
scheduled to be completed by March 1999.
4. Improving the efficiency of MSEB's distribution system has been taken up with MSEB's
own financial alternative resources through loans from nationalized and cooperative banks.
However, this project has suffered unavoidable delays due to procedural constraints. The project
is likely to be completed by 1999-2000.
5. Consultancy services have been completed and their recommendations in respective areas are
being irnplemented.
C.    IMPLEMENTA TION SCHEDULE
6. Clhcundrapur Uniit 7 fJx500 AMW] Comiiponrent: One of the major components of Second
Maharashtra Power Project was the installation and commissioning of an additional 500 MW coal
fired unit at Chandrapur TPS, expanding its present generation capacity [1,840 MW] to its
ultimate potential of 2,340 MW generation. The original commissioning schedule during
appraisal was June 1997. The main plant equipment (boiler, turbine, and auxiliaries) were
ordered on M/s BHEL, India in January 1994 with a target of 48 months commissioning schedule
[i.e., January 19981. However, considering the power shortages experienced in Maharashtra, the
management of MSEB and BHEL agreed to make every effort to achieve the commissioning in
42 months, or six months ahead of the contractual commissioning schedule. In the end, Unit 7
was synchronized in 44 months--on October 1, 1997. The coal-firing operation took place on
s   This section is MSEB's contribution, and is not attributable to the Bank.



25
]December 21, 1997, and subsequent to successful trial operation, the Unit started generating at
full load. As of October 1998, the Unit had generated 1,402 million kWh . Expenditure on 67
contracts [including various E&M, Civil & General packages] of Rs.1072.669 Crores has been
incurred. Shown below are tables indicating the program that was achieved to implement Unit 7,
it subsequent performance, and details of loan usage.
a. Mlajor  hilestones for C/handrapur l /nit 7
Sr.                                          42 NMonths       Date
No.             M%lajor .lile Stones          Schedule      Achieved
Zero date ot'lProject              27.1.94        27.1.94
2        B3oiler Foundation start           Feb'94          1.2.94
3        Boiler lErection start            Jan'95           17.1.95
4        iloiler l)rum Litting              July'95        30.9.95
5        T(I D)eck completion               Nov'95         29.9.95
6        NMaini T(i lErection start         Mar'96         24.2.96
7        lloiler I lydraulie 'I'cst         Sep'96          16.12.96
8        Generator Stator Lil'ting          Aug'96         30.11 196
9        I G llox up                       Nov'96          14.1.97
1 0     Generator 13ox up                  Dec'96          17.5.97
II     (C'omposite B3oiler I lydraulic 1 C.t  Nov'96       1.6.97
12      Boiler Light up                    Mar'97          25.6.97
13      13oiling out start                 Mar'97          1.7.97
14      Boiling out compietion             Mar'97          3.7.97
S       B13oiler Acid cleaning start       Apr'97          16.7.97
16      Boiler Acid cleaning completion    Apr'97          21.7.97
17      Steam Blow ofT start                May'97          1.9.97
IX 8    Steam Blow ofl completion          May'97          17.9.97
19       'GTC on B3arring Giear            May'97          28.7.97
20       Rolling                           Jul'97          30.9.97
21       Synchronization                    Jul'97          1.10.97
b. Pci'fornatnce Summarv Report
Month       Plant l.oad Factor   Availability   Generation in
F:actor       Million Units
(MUS)
Dec'97          8.26             55.64            12
Jan'98          9.05             32.5
Feb'98          38.28            74.61            129
Mar'98          24.77            44.89            92
97-98 total                                       266
Apr'98          47.63            68.11            171
May'98          71.21            93.36            265
June'98         64.26            80.65            231
July'98         66.55            91.28            248
Aug'98          47.77            73.58            178
Sep'98           12.2             18.25           44
Oct'98          0                0                0
Nov'98          48.08            73.36            173
Dec'98          63.1             82.27            235
Jan'99           85.39           96.87            318
Feb'99           53.6            68.17            180
Mar'99          90.19             100             335



26
98-99 total   54.29         70 oS         2378
c. CoonsolidatedS Stulmmsay lof lo(on I iil:aton(L'SSmil/lion)
Sr.|                I oan Componeint              Loan       Loan    ILoan Utilized
No                                                Amount   Anmount   Till date ot loan
_   _                                  [Originall  [Rex isedi    suspension
I    Chandrapur U# 7 1 x500 INIWI Project          221        195        94.866
2    Chandrapur-Padaghe fIVIc     I'ransniission l-inie Project  1538     3 9)59
2A   Additional Transmi5sion l-Iiine                 0             ]      Nil
3    Acceleratedl Dlstribution Reinforcement Prourainm  7()                Nil
3A  ILatur Farthquake Re! hetWorks Schlicmes         0         4          2 532
4    C(onsultancv Serv ices                          2         7          5.852
5    Reserve for Contingency                        2)         10         ----
6    Total for loan 3498 IN                         350       351)       107 209
7. HVDC Linie Project: Both at the Chandrapur and Padaghe terminals, most of the civil works
have been completed. The fir-st and second pole comnissioning was scheduled in August 1997
and February 1998. Commissioniing for both poles I and 2 are now rescheduled for mid-1999.
3.      Acceleratedl Distributtioni Rein forcenent Progtrimmzze:
(a)     Rehabilitation  schemes of afftected  villages  of Latur earthquake.   The  materia'
procurement under this scheme is almost completed.
(b)     Accelerated Distribution Reinforcement Programme. (i) bid evaluation reports for 17
schemes were forwarded to the Bank for its concurrence during October 1997 and
January 1998. However, because the loan was under suspension [beginning October 22,
1996), no further correspondence took place. While tenders for 14 items were canceled,
MSEB proceeded with award of a contract for other items; (ii) out of 71 new sub-
stations, MSEB commissioned 16 sub-stations during FY1997-98 by using its own
reserve stock of materials.
8. Conis.ultaccv Services.      Works of all the  consultancy  services  undertaken  by  the
consultants  have  been  completed,  generally  as  per  the  scheduled  timeframe.    The
recommendations of these consultants are being implemented by MSEB in the respective areas.
D.    DESIGN FEA TURES
9.  Chandrapur Unit 7 Component:  MSEB  has already acquired sufficient experience in
installation and commissioning of a number of 210 MW thermal projects at its power stations,
namely Nashik, Koradi and Khaperkheda, Bhusawal. Parli and Chandrapur along with two
500MW' units at Chandrapur. With the association of consultants M/s DESEIN, New Delhi
(whose technical collaborators are M/s Black & Veach, USA), all the technical specifications of
the main plant and various E&M packages of Chandrapur Unit 7 were prepared, tenders floated,
bids received and evaluated, and contracts were awarded by MSEB's Project Design Office at
Mumbai, headed by Chief Engineer (Gen. Projects and Planning).  Similarly, the project
implementation was executed by MSEB's Generation Construction Office, headed by Chief
Enginee:r (Generation Construction) and Chandrapur Project Site Office, headed by Deputy.
Chief Engineer (Generation Projects). The design of Chandrapur Unit 7 is on the basis of, and
very much similar to, the earlier commissioned Chandrapur Units-5&6 (2 x 500 MW), main plant
equipment which were also supplied by M/s BHEL.



27
* Environmental Aspects: The environmental impacts likely to be posed by Chandrapur TPS,
assuming a generation potential of 2,340 MW, were examined by MSEB's consultants (M/s
Associated Industrial Consultants India Pvt. Ltd).  While granting the environmental
clearance for commissioning of Unit 7, GOI made it contingent on construction of a chimney
[stack] with a minimum of 275 meters height and installation of a flue gas desulpherisation
[FGD] unit [pending MSEB's request to GOI to relax this mandated condition]. A no
objection from the National Airport Authority for construction of a 275 meter chimney
enabled MSEB to proceed with Unit 7 project works.  The ground level chemical
concentration of S02 & NOx at various locations were reviewed. The chimney [stack]
height of 275 meters has helped emission dispersion over a wider area. NOx generation is
controlled in the pulverized coal fired boiler. (for use of worst quality coal), by way of
properly designed bumers that use a low excess air combustion system.  The online
instrumentation installed at the chimney enables continuous monitoring of emissions (see
Annex for details of recent results). Levels of the following constituents are well within the
permissible limits of ambient air quality is as follows:
Constituents       Limits [for Ambient Air            Actual Values
Qualityi as per MPCB
Norms
S02                  120 microgm. /N-Cubic meter  15  to  20  microgm./N-Cubic
meter
Nox                  120 microgm. IN-Cubic meter  20  to  25  microgm./N-Cubic
meter
Particulate Discharge  500 microgm. /N-Cubic meter  300  to  400microgm./N-Cubic
meter
The effects of burning the worst quality of coal, and thus the gas emitted from the plant
[when all the seven units would be in full-load operation], would not exceed the permissible
limits. Therefore, this will comply with the guidelines of GOI/ GOM and the Bank.
Inistallaition of ESPS: MSEB has commissioned ESPs in all the power stations, which has
very high efficiency [exceeding 99%].  Regular maintenance is carried out to restrict
particulate discharge well within the limits. MSEB is meeting SPM regulations for 50% of
its thermal generation capacity, i.e., 3,046 MW out of 5,976 MW . This is as per the target
set by MSEB. The target for meeting SPM regulations for the remaining thermal generation
capacity will be achieved by the year 2005.
* Zero Discharge Objective.' In order to reduce pollution of water bodies and to provide a
friendly and pollution-free environment, MSEB has adopted a Environment Health Safety
Policy. For implementation, MSEB's objective is to achieve ZERO DISCHARGE from its
thermal power stations by the year 2000. For meeting this objective, Effluent Treatment
Plants are being set up. The effluents from the various places located at the power stations
are collected at one location, and after providing necessary treatment to these effluents, the
water is recovered/recycled for re-use. As a consequence of such recycling of water, the
water consumption per unit of electricity generated is brought down, leading ultimately to the
conservation of natural resources. Water quantity recycled at Chandrapur from January 1997
to March 1998 was I1 million cubic meters, which is more than the water requirement for
one 210 MW unit in one year.



28
*  Ash Water Recovery Systenm  Wet ash is collected in bunds which are compartmentalized in
lagoons. This arrangement leads to more residual time in the lagoon for resettlement of the
suspended fly ash, and clear water is discharged which is available for recovery/recycling
and re-use. At Chandrapur, the ash water recovery scheme is expected to clear about 2,680
cubic meters per hour for its ash bunds for its ash slurry.
*  Improvemnent Measures.: Use of bag filters technology is presently being implemented at
Koradi Unit 6 and is under observation. These improvement measures will be implemented
in other units in phases.
*  Tree Plantation (Irilve (it Chandrapur: MSEB has implemented a green belt development by
tree plantation at all thermal power stations in the open space area, and so far, 25.55 lacs of
trees have been planted in 2,514 acres of land. At Chandrapur TPS, 9.6 lacs of trees have
been planted over 914 acres of land.
10. If 1VDC Project. MSEB has also acquired sufficient experience of installing, commissioning
and maintenance of various transmission lines, and has developed a team of well-experienced
engineers who can design and implement tasks of such a nature. The project has been designed
by the Transmission Planning Dept. of MSEB, headed by Chief Engineer (Transmission
Planning) at Mumbai. The tender documents were prepared, bids received and evaluated and
contracts awarded. MSEB has adequate, experienced in-house staff for undertaking
installation/commissioning as well as operation and maintenance (O&M) activities of HVDC link
between Chandrapur and Padaghe.
11. Accelerated Distribuitioni Reirlforceirmenit Programrmirre:  A consultant was appointed for
finalizing this loan component according to World Bank guidelines; MSEB appointed M/s
Worley International, New Zealand as a consultant, and MSEB prepared the schemes for this
component in line with their recommendations. MSEB's Distribution Dept., headed by Chief
Engineer (Distribution) has undertaken implementation of this project. Technical specifications
have been prepared. tenders floated, bids received and evaluated and contracts awarded as
described above.
12. Consultancy Services: MSEB secured consultant services in the following three areas:
* Development of MSEB's environmental management capabilities at the corporate level.
MSEB had placed an order for Environmental Management Consultancy on an international
consultant M/s ERM, U.K. During the tenure of M/s ERM consultancy services, an
Environmental Task Force Group was set up at MSEB's Corporate office in Mumbai for
consistently coordinating with the consultants. The consultancy period was for 18 months
from September 1994 to March 1996. At the end of the consultancy period, M/s ERM
submitted their final report, which was accepted by MSEB. Accordingly, MSEB has set up a
Corporate Environment Health and Safety Unit at Headquarters, Mumbai, designated as
Chief Engineer (Corporate Environment H&S Unit) from February 1997. The Chief Engineer
is assisted by one Sr. Executive Engineer, two Executive Engineers, one Executive Chemist,
one Assistant Engineer and other secretarial staff. MSEB has adopted an Environmental
Health and Safety Policy, and set up long-term quantified objectives, which are under
implementation through the Environment Health and Safety Unit. Environmental issues are
discussed regularly in the monthly review meetings which are convened by the Technical
Director (Gen. O&M) and all Power Station Heads/Chief Engineers participate and discuss
various issues pertaining to the power stations.



29
*  Load research and preparation of electricity demand management measure.  MSEB is the
largest electric utility in India with an installed capacity of plus 8,000 MW. The additional
power demand is met by purchasing power from NTPC and Tarapur Atomic Power Station.
MSEB shares power with Tata Electric Company and other State Electricity Boards/Regional
Electric Utilities to meet the power demand in the State of Maharashtra and other
neighboring States. MSEB supplies power in Maharashtra excluding Mumbai City where the
power supply is served by Tata Electric Company and BSES. However, MSEB has been just
meeting the power demand in Maharashtra, and sometimes during peak hours, load shedding
must be imposed [more prominently during winter season]. Given the estimated 7.5% annual
growth expected in power demand, the situation was quite alarming, and called for
improvement. The cost of power is another major determinant in the equation. Currently,
power from the central government owned stations has been available at low rates to MSEB.
MSEB, thus has been able to meet revenue requirements in most of the years, despite a rate
structure which stabilizes the agricultural and domestic consumers at the cost of the industrial
and commercial consumers. This would change with the installation of the new power
plants, which have considerable higher costs relative to the presently installed power plants.
With higher supply costs, MSEB would be unable to maintain the current rate structure and
meet revenue requirements without substantial subsidies from the state govemment. This
would not be a desirable situation, given the tight fiscal situation and the ongoing
liberalization programs which do not favor subsidies. Given this background, MSEB is keen
to reduce future load demand by considering Demand Side Management options as an
avenue to meet some of its capacity needs. Therefore, MSEB commissioned SRC
International to conduct a study on Load Research and Demand Side Management. SRC
International, working with Ontario Hydro International of Canada and the Tata Energy
Research Institute of New Delhi, developed a detailed work plan based on terms of reference
defined by MSEB. The scope of the study is detailed in the inception report prepared in
August 1994.
* Financial and legal consultants in the area of private power projects in Maharashtra. Apart
from the contribution of power generation along with its transmission and distribution by
MSEB [in the state of Maharashtra], other prime sources of power from private sector are (i)
Tata Electric Company, having their power station at Trombay [station capacity of 1330
MW); (ii) Tarapur Atomic Power Station [Maharashtra's share:160 MW); and (iii) Bombay
Suburban Electric Supply Company, presently having its 2x250MW capacity power station
in Dahanu, near Mumbai. Therefore, the presence of private power sector companies are
consistently contributing appreciably in keeping pace with the continuously increasing power
demand in Maharashtra and neighboring states. Further, because of financial resources as
well as to benefit from GOI's policies of promoting private power sectors, MSEB and GOM
have initiated steps to encourage private sectors to occupy a wider share of power generation
in Maharashtra. The first such power station is being built at Dabhol in the district of
Ratnagiri. MSEB has also signed a PPA with Central India Power Company who will be
setting up a 1,082 MW [2 x 541 MW] coal-based power station at Bhadravati. For
formulating and executing the policies concerning the private power sectors, MSEB has set
up an exclusive cell, headed by the Technical Director [Corporate Planning]. Further, the
Chief Engineer [Corporate Planning] is assisted by one Deputy Chief Engineer, three
Superintending Engineers, and four Executive Engineers along with other finance and
secretarial staff. In response to GOI's policy announcements inviting private investment in
the private sector in India, MSEB has proceeded with the finalization of signing
memorandums of understanding with various prospective private sector companies. This



30
procedure is new to MSEB and involves financial and legal complexities. To become
acquainted with these procedures, and to comply with the queries relating to so many
formalities for getting clearances from numerous authorities, MSEB has secured the services
of' the following financial and legal consultants: M/s Vanguard Capital International Limited,
London; M/s Freshfields, London; and M/s West Merchants, London.
F.    LESSONS LEARNED
12. Chandrapur Unit 7 Component: MSEB had to face initial problems while seeking statutory
clearances before proceeding with this component. During the tendering stage, MSEB was
required to extend the tender opening date when the prospective tenderers were allowed to
purcha[se the tender documents till the date of tender opening as per the suggestions of the Bank.
This process contributed to slight delays in awarding the contracts for the main plant equipment.
The other major experience of MSEB was to tackle the financial crunch which developed due to
loan suspension. However, MSEB has succeeded in implementing the commissioning of Unit 7
in record minimum time.
13. HVDC: The procurement of insulators was the most difficult part for MSEB. Though the
exercise provided very good information about DC insulators and non-ceramic insulators, the
World Bank's insistence for consideration of non-ceramic insulators, (which are not widely used
for DC applications) on par with ceramic insulators resulted in delay.  The delay in the
procurement of insulators was the sole reason for delay in completion of the project. Otherwise,
by this time both the poles would have become operational. Similarly, in the case of Bersimis
ACSR (which was to have been procured using funds of Loan 3096-IN), the World Bank's strict
approach regarding the validity of offers resulted in some dclay. It may be noted that the bidders
do not have any reason to go on extending validity of their offers unless asked for. Therefore
World Bank's action of declaring mis-procurement of part quantity of Bersimis ACSR could
have been avoided.
14. Accelerated Distribution Reinforcement Programme: Only a meager amount of loan could
be utilized towards earthquake rehabilitation works. No amount of the loan was drawn for the
reinforcement programme. MSEB looks forward to completing this project by securing loans
from national as well as cooperative banks.
15. Consultancy Services: The works of consultancy services were completed smoothly, and
without any notable difficulty.
16. Lessons: Several specific lessons can be drawn from the project that have both operational
and strategic implications for similar projects likely to be implemented in the future:
*  Sound financial health is a key element to the success and for stability.
*  The procurement cycle right from start of the bid issue to the stage of the award of the
contract should be simplified and shortened.
*  Due to a deficit in achieving the performance relating to financial covenants, as per
expectations, the situation led initially to the suspension of loan by the World Bank effective
October 22, 1996, and finally loan closing effective June 30, 1998 [the scheduled date of loan
closing], thus causing about 70% of the loan amount to be unutilized. MSEB/GOM fell short



31
in achieving the covenanted target of receivables of 2.5 months by 17 days (the latest
achieved receivables are 107 days), while other covenants have been achieved.
F.    PERFORMANCE OF CO-FINANCIERS
17. Chandrapur Unit 7: MSEB had to secure alternative arrangements to overcome the financial
shortfalls caused in the wake of suspension beginning October 1996, the time when the supplies
under various IBRD and other non-funded contracts were in full momentum. Though the loan
suspension caused a source of constant worry, MSEB spared no efforts to achieve the
commissioning schedule of Chandrapur Unit 7 in 44 months, which is a record minimum time.
Funds from MSEB's internal resources and fundings through PFC loans were utilized to offset
the deficit of funds due to the unavailability of the loan amount subsequent to the period of loan
suspension.
1 8. HVDC: The performance of co-financiers for the HVDC project viz. ANZ Banking group,
SEB Sweden, SIDA, Credit Suisse, KfW Gerrnany and Power Finance Corporation, has been
excellent. The disbursements were in time, and the Credit Suisse and KfW promptly responded
to MSEB's requests for validity extensions.
19. Consultancy Services: All works were completed; no other resources were required for this
component.
i3.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
:20. The project is clearly sustainable which is obvious from the following facts:
The major component of the loan (construction of I unit of 500 MW at Chandrapur Thermal
Power Station, Chandrapur Unit 7) has provided the optimum utilization of existing infrastructure
(including the required land), which was already available/developed for Chandrapur Units 5&6
[2x500 MW). The project site is justified particularly due to its proximity around coal mines and
water availability from Erai reservoir. Two very important factors are responsible for economic
availability of primary resources for power generation.  Chandrapur Unit-7 has been
commissioned in a record minimum time of 44 months. After a successful trial operation, the
unit achieved a full load of 500 MW. Likewise, HVDC and the Accelerated Distribution
Reinforcement Programme are being implemented by MSEB with alternative financial resources.
As such, the objectives of cost effective power addition and improvement in transmission and
distribution capacity/ efficiency have been achieved and are sustainable. The results of the tasks
being implemented as per the recommendations of the consultants appointed for various
consultancy services are also satisfactory and result oriented.
22. The demand projections in terms of the peak demand and energy requirements for the
Maharashtra system has been assessed by the 15th Electric Power Survey [EPS] Committee
formulated by CEA. The projection of peak demand up to the end of I Ith plan (i.e., up to the
year 2011-12 ) are as indicated below.



32
Peak Demand Projection
PEAK DEMANDIMWI    YEAR             ENERGY REQUIREMENT       REMARKS
_  MUsJ
9911                1997-1998      b2510
10764               1998-1999      67889
11029               1999-2000      73349
12460               2000-20001     78586
13147               2001-2002      82921                    I.ast year of lX Plan
1831 I            ] 2006-2007      115488                   Last year of X Plan
25087               ' 2011-2012    158229                    LastyearofXI Plan
23. It may be seen that the anticipated increase per year in power demand is between 650 MW to
850 MW. The following table indicates actual maximum demands recorded every year up to
1997-98 and up to September 1998 during the year 1998-99. The maximum demand during
1994-95 and 1995-96 are more than the estimation of 15th EPS.
Alaxvinnn Dema(nd of Maharashtra - Projections & Actu11als
YI AR         AS PER 15"' FPS  ACTI UAL DEMAND
[IN MWI          I IN MWI
1994-95       7854             7906
1995-96       8486             8578
1996-97       9208             9018
1997-98       9911             9473
1998-99      10764            9537
24. As regards the years 1996-97 and 1997-98, the recorded maximum demands are a little less
than the EPS estimation. But considering the fact that the maximum demands have been
recorded at an average frequency of 49 Hz. and the power number of Maharashtra State is around
450 MW per Hz., the maximum demands can be said as keeping pace with the EPS estimation.
During the ninth five-year plan, the load is estimated to increase by 3,236 MW as per EPS,
whereas the generation addition will be 2,604 (2,184 MW of Dabhol Stage-I & 11 + 420 MW of
Khaperkheda Units-3&4). Eventually, the addition of 500 MW Unit 7 at Chandrapur is fully
justified. Chandrapur TPS provides generation capacity of 2,340 MW (4x210 MW + 3 x 510
MW) . Further, the Chandrapur sub-station is also connected to NTPC's Korba Power Station,
[whose generation capacity is 2,100 MW], over 400 kV DC line via Bhilai [in Madhya Pradesh)
and Bhadravati [near Chandrapur] in which Maharashtra has 29% share (i.e., 209 MW).
POWERGRID has recently commissioned a 1,000 MW HVDC "Back To Back" [BTB] station at
Bhadravati, which enables interconnection of the Westem Region with the Southern Region.
Even without considering any power assistance from the Southern Region through 1,000 MW
HVDC BTB station at Bhadravati, the total power availability at Chandrapur Bus is around 2,700
MW. The existing three 400 kV circuits emanating from Chandrapur Sub-Station are provided
with line connected reactors. Therefore, they are designed to carry 1,200 MW of power without
considering any contingency. The remaining 1,500 MW power has to flow over HVDC link.
During the initial 2-3 years of operation and also during off peak hours, the power flow may be
less. However, MSEB has also signed a Power Project Agreement with Central India Power
Company who will be setting up a 1,082 MW (2x541 MW) coal- based power station at
Bhadravati, 25 km. from Chandrapur. The proposed plant is expected to be commissioned during
Ninth Plan Period with a guaranteed availability factor of 87%. For evacuation of power from
Bhadravati, due to availability of the HVDC system, interconnection of Bhadravati with
Chandrapur and 400 kV single circuit line from Bhadravati to Bhusawal would suffice. After the
commissioning of the Bhadravati project, a continuous flow of 1,200 MW to 1,500 MW is
expected on the HVDC line. The DC link will also be useful for improving system stability.



33
25. In view of the above facts, the project of Chandrapur-Padghe Transmission Lines for
evacuation of surplus power [at Chandrapur, which is the eastern part of Maharashtra] and its
transmission to Padghe [a major load centre in Westem Maharashtra] was envisaged which is
quite justified, and hence sustainability has been established.
H.    BORROWER' S PERFORAMANCE
265. MSEB's performance on execution was satisfactory. Commissioning of Chandrapur Unit 7
was achieved ahead of schedule, and has set record of minimum commissioning time as
compared to other 500 MW units so far commissioned in India. The HVDC project though
suffered some delay. MSEB performance and efforts in achieving commissioning of this project
is satisfactory. Implementation of schemes under the Accelerated Distribution Reinforcement
Programme is being achieved through alternative finance resources, and MSEB expects their
completion without being able to utilize any amount from the loan. The works of Consultancy
Services have been undertaken as per schedule and to the satisfaction of MSEB.
1.    EVALUATION OF BANK' S PERFORMANCE
27. The appraisal review undertaken by the World Bank was adequately guided and motivated
by MSEB's earlier achievements to pave the way for qualifying MSEB to undertake more vital
and ambitious tasks and components covered under Second Maharashtra Power Project. The
Bank was consistently involved from project identification through its implementation stage. The
assistance provided by the Bank has adequately assisted in upbringing the physical tasks of
Second  Maharashtra Power Projects.   The Bank provided  a number of visits of
supervisory/review missions.  The efforts of the World Bank have undoubtedly contributed
towards MSEB's attempts for realization of project objectives. The relations between MSEB and
Bank officials were quite cordial. Frequent reviews undertaken by Bank missions through the
tenure of the project have helped MSEB to appreciate and adopt broader sectoral concerns in
tlheir operations. The performance of the Bank from the project preparation through the project
completion  stage  was  satisfactory.   Involvement by  Bank  delegates  during  their
supervisory/review missions and through correspondence and communication has always been
appreciated and contributed to project implementation.
28. However, the Bank could render more realistic assistance by giving due consideration to the
specific conditions in a country like India. Often circumstances are in contrast to prevailing
standards, and are not always comparable to, nor compatible with, those of other countries.



34
APPENDIX A
ANNEX
STACK EMISSIONS INCLUDING UNIT 7 AT CHANDRAPUR
SPM   :150 Mg/NM3 (National Standard).
S02          2000 Mg/NM3 (World Bank Standard).
Nox          750 Mg/NM3 (World Bank Standard).
March 1999
Unit No.        Date            SPM            S02            NOx
(Mg/Nni)       (Mg/Nm3)       (Mg/Nm3)
Unit --1       27.03.99       211.3          896.0          257
Unit --2       24.03.99       154.4          960.3          280
Unit-- 3       08.03.99       126.0          909.5          244
Unit --4       09.03.99       96.00          873.9          230
Unit-5         12.03.99       146.9          627.4          248
Unit- 6        25.03.99       116.6          769.2       _261
Unit- 7        06.03.99       98.40          904.8          254
April 1999.
Unit No.        Date            SPM            S02            NOx
I____________ l(Mg/Nm3)        (Mg/Nm3)       (Mg/Nm3)
Unit - 1       17.04.99       228.00         1069.00        290.00
Unit - 2       16.04.99       229.33         992.68         260.00
Unit - 3       12.04.99       174.50         924.53         246.00
Unit-4         09.04.99       180.15         977.20         237.00
Unit - 5       05.04.99       144.46         991.25         250.00
Unit - 6       19.04.99       117.35         756.86         252.00
Unit- 7        06.04.99       82.15          960.00         238.00



35
APPENDIX B
Environmental Impact Issues
1. A technical assistance component to strengthen MSEB's environmental
capabilities, including international consulting expertise, was financed under the loan for
Chandrapur Unit 7. The consultant began work in September, 1994, and the study and
training was completed in 1996. MSEB has taken a pro-active approach to the
environmental management activities included in the technical assistance, and has
implementing these actions at all its thermal power stations, not just Chandrapur. MSEB
established an Environmental Protection Cell, whose efforts to-date have included
various environmental impacts studies, and where appropriate the implementation of the
results.
2. M[SEB has undertaken the coal quality studies viz. evaluation of coal quality impacts
on power station & financial performance. Some environmental management activities
have already been initiated by the EPC, including water management systems redesign
and construction for "Zero discharge" of effluent, air emissions control improvements,
ash utilization studies and occupational health and safety audits, risk ratings and
assessments, completed pilot study and measurement of fugitive dust emission and
exposure to workmen at Chandrapur, Koradi, Klhaperkkheda, and Bhusawal, with a view
to initiate action for prevention & suppression of fugitive respirable dust in order to
reduce healtlh impacts on the workmiien working in coal handling and ash handling plants.
The EPC has also performed a safety audit and safety rating system, created an
environmiiiental data base, dispersion modeling, disaster management plans, and begun to
encourage energy conservation with the inherant target of reducing pollution.
3. NISEB set a target in 1995 to use 5% of the ash it produces. In 1997-98 ash
utilization amounlted to 3.8% (0.92% for brick production 0.23% for agricultural use and
2.65%0 for creating ash buLid dyke walls). Water conservation measures at the
Chandrapur site from January 1997 to 30th March 1999 reduced use by I I million m3 by
recycling, which was sufficient for the conltinluous annual generation of about 250 MW.
Three effluent treatment plants of capacity 1600 m3/hr, 500 m3/hr and 100 m3/hr have
been commissioned.
4. MSEB has adopted an Environment Health and Safety Policy, inter alia, with the
objective to achieve ZERO DISCHARGE of effluents from its thermal power
statilons by the year 2000. The various effluents at the power stations are collected
and after treatment the water is recovered/recycled for appropriate re-use. Wet ash is
collected in compartmentalized lagoons, settled, and the clear water is available for
recycling and reuse. To prevent fly-ash from being wind-blown, MSEB has planted over
2 million trees on about 1,000 hectares of thermal power station grounds.
5. Project results  The 500 MW, seventh thermal unit at Chandrapur, which was
installed under the loan, along with the other two 500 MW units are in compliance with
GOI's discharge requirements for Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), SO, and NO,



36
from all three stacks. However, the smaller and older 210 MW units do not comply, and
MSEB is actively planning to retrofit these with Bag Filters. It is currently installing
these at other stations on its system, and is awaiting the results before proceeding at
Chandrapur. With the commissioning of Unit 7, the overall average discharge per MWh
has reduced. Waste water discharge parameters are in compliance with GOI regulations
for the whole of the Chandrapur site. The improvements in overall per site output
average discharges as a result of the project are indicated in the Tables annexed to the
borrower's Appendix A.
6. MSEB has an environmental monitorin, plan, approved by its Board, for the whole
of the Chandrapur site, and a team in place onl-site, whiclh is monitoring results, and
advising on day-to-day operations to improve the facilities discharges.



37
APPENDIX C
Land Acquisition and Resettlement and Rehabilitation Issues
Background
1. The outcome of project objectives are best assessed by comparing the actual results
and outputs with those determined at the time of commencement of the project. The
extension of Chandrapur Power Station, i.e. the construction of Unit 7 under this loan,
did not involve any new displacement of population. This was because adequate land
was already available at the existing plant site for the installation of seventh unit.
However, private land was acquired for units 5 and 6 amounting to 2,700 hectares which
had resulted in displacement of about 800 families. The aim of including the R&R
program under this loan (3498-IN) was to support MSEB/GOM's efforts to improve the
welfare of persons affected by earlier investments related to the construction of Unit 5
and 6. The objective under this program was limited therefore to the satisfactory
completion of resettlement and rehabilitation of those families affected due to land
acquisition for unit 5 and 6.
2. Originally, at the time of project appraisal (1992), it was agreed that this program
would be completed over a period of 18 months. However, monitoring of progress was
overlooked until mid-1995. In October 1995, the Bank drew to GOM's attention some
seriouis concerns. These concerns include: (a) absence of clear goals and targets for
satisfactory resettlement and rehabilitation; (b) need for monitoring indicators and bench
marks to measure the progress; and, (c) lack of dependable baseline data about the
affected families. Therefore, a retrofit socio-economic survey was recommended to
identify the affected families and their existing living standards. Based on the survey
results, a plan was to be drawn up to extend the assistance to all those affected families to
improve their overall living standards compared to the pre-displacement standards.
Summary of Implementation Performance
3. In order to assess the performance of the borrower for satisfactory completion of
R&R program, overall progress on different activities was assessed as of the loan closing
date of June 30, 1998. Based on this progress, it is concluded that still some part of this
component, mostly related to relocation of displaced families and implementation of
economic rehabilitation, is yet to be completed . The key activities that have been
completed successfully so far include: (a) a new resettlement colony has been developed
at Godepeth and basic amenities have been provided. However, this has attracted so far
only 50 families and most of the other families are yet to be shifted; (b) About 70
families from Chargaon have resettled on their own, while GOMI/MSEB had provided
basic amenities in this new village; and (c) MSEB had provided regular employment to
about 450 PAPs in various plant operations. The key R&R activators that are yet to be
completed include: (a) satisfactory completion of economic rehabilitation to those who
are identified to be living below the poverty line. This program consist of: (i) developing
an alternative resettlement colony and offering alternative agricultural land to those



38
eligible for land for land; (ii) providing regular employment to those PAPs who are
found to possess required qualifications and experience for absorbing in MSEB; and, (iii)
imparting suitable training and extending assistance to start self employment activities or
providing assistance under various ongoing govemment programs in case of those
families who are identified living below the poverty line; and, (b) encouraging in the next
few years the remaining families to move to the resettled village; and, (c) completion of
the program of providing regular employment with MSEB to those who are on the
waiting list. The summary of R&R activities is shown in Table C-i.
Table C-I: Status of the Resettlement and  Rehabilitation Activities (as of June 30, 1998)
Si.     Activity                Target             Achievement                     Remarks
No.
I   Enumeration             Through             Completed                       Revised list of 787 families
Consultant                                         was prepared
2       Physical relocation     787                350(45%O completed)             The shifting of remaining
families has been delayed
since the affected people
arc continuing to practice
cultivation in the acquired
land since these land are
not required by MSEB
immediately.
3       Civic amentias in                          *   3 bore wells                Balance works will be
resettlement colonies                      *   I dug well                 taken up based on the
( New Godapeth and                         *   2 school buildings          requircment after the
New Chargaon)                              *   2 community halls           additional families move to
*   Individual toilets to 68   the resettlement colonies
familics
*   Internal and approach
roads
*   Opcn draining
*   Street lighting
The required facilities for the
existing families is found to be
adequate.
3       Employment in MSEB   563                   449 (80 % achievement)          The rest will be provided as
and when suitable
vacancies arise
4       Rehabilitation Grant    487                457 (94% are given)             The Rehabilitation Grant to
30 families is pending due
to court cases or disputes as
to legal heirs .
5       Assistance to those     198                29 ( given jobs in MSEB) only   MSEB is yet to finalize the
living below the                           15 % were given assistance     type of assistance (other
poverty line                                                              than land-for-land to the
eligible) to those living
below the poverty line.
These include employment
in MSEB, assistance under
government programs,
training and assistance for
self employment.



39
Current Status of Implementation
Completion of Relocating the Displaced Families
4. In order to complete the relocation of all those displaced families, GOM had offered
a resettlement grant of Rs. 35,000 to the agricultural families and Rs. 15,000 to the non-
agricultural families with a view that that will utilize this money to relocate themselves
according their own choice. However, this relocation grant has had a limited impact.
Only the villagers of Chargaon have utilized this grant for buying alternative land and
reconstructing their own houses. In the case of the other villages, even after receiving
this grant, people continue to live in the existing place and have spent the resettlement
grant for some unproductive uses. In view of this, the Bank had recommended for
construction a new resettled village and to move those affected to this new site. Further,
because of an amendmenit in the Maharashtra Project Affected Peoples Act in 1986, the
payment of rehabilitation grant was withdrawnl in those cases where the assets have been
acquired after the amendment in the Act. The details of those who have not been paid the
grant is provided in Table C-2
Table C-2: Details of Payment of Resettlement Grant (as on June 30, 1998)
No    Name of the village       No. of families   No. of families
identified for    offered
Resettlement    Resettlement
Grant           Grant
Charuaon                 92               91
2     Saiwan                     105             103
3     Gunjala                    115             91
4     Awandha                    153             150
5     Kacharala                 22               22
Total                    487              457*
* the paymenit to 30 families is pending due to court cases and dispute of
legal heir.
Development of Resettlement Colony
5. K,eeping in view the Bank's recommendations, MSEB/GOM have developed a
resettlement colony at Godepeth about 8 km from their ancestral villages for resettling
those affected. Basic civic amenities such as bore and dug wells, school buildings,
internal and approach roads, street lights were being provided. Individual plots have been
developed and allotted to all those affected at a very nominal cost. So far, only 50
families have been shifted to the new resettlement colony. However the villagers of
Chargaon have resettled on their own by purchasing the plot adjacent to their ancestral
village. They have made their own arrangements for constructing their houses. MSEB
provided the basic amenities such as drinking-water well, school building, internal and
approach roads, individual toilets, street lighting, drainage etc. The details of those



40
shifted to the new site and those who have made their own alternative arrangements are
farnished in Table C-3.
Table C-3: Details of Displacement and Resettlement (as on June 30, 1998)
Name of   No. of families  No. of families shifted  No. of families  Total
the village  proposed to be  to resettlemenit    resettled on    resettled
displaced      colonies              their own
Chargaon   92              68                    24              92
Saiwan     105             46                    59              105
Gunjala    115             -                   _
Awandha   153              4                      149            153
Kacharala  322             -
Total      787             118                   232             350
6. The remaining families have not relocated, and they continue to practice cultivation
on the land they previously owned and which MSEB has acquired from them, but will not
need for ash disposal for several years yet. MSEB has carefully detailed and recorded the
acquisitions, and agreed the details with the families.
Provision of Employment Opportunities
7. As per the policy formulated by MSEB and GOM, one person from each affected
family will be provided employment with MSEB subject to availability and suitability.
These affected families were categorized into three categories based on the degree of
impact. Category I includes those who have lost their entire land and house. Category II
are those PAFs whose land holdings have become uneconomically small. Category III
are those PAFs who did not have any land holding. The jobs will be provided according
to the priority category. Based on this criteria MSEB had identified 563 PAPs for
employmenit in MSEB. By June 30, 1998, 449 had been offered employment, and thus
about 80% of the identified PAPs have been given employment and the remaining 1 14
are on the waiting list and will be offered employment as and when suitable vacancies
arise.
Retrofit Socio-economic Survey and Economic Rehabilitation
8. Based on the land records available with the revenue authorities, 787 families were
identified as those affected by MSEB's acquisition of the land for units 5 and 6. A
retrofit soc-io-economic and tracer survey was carried out through consultants in 1996
among these 787 families. The objective of this survey was to discover them and their
existing living standards, and to deternine the type of assistance required to improve
their living standards. The consultants could only trace and identify 612 families, and
concluded that the remaining 175 families had migrated elsewhere. Various efforts such
as paper advertisement, distribution of brochures and open publicity in the neighboring
villages were employed in an attempt to trace these affected families. Out of the 612



41
families located, 198 (32.3%) were found to be living below the poverty line. In order to
improve the living standards of those living below the poverty line, suitable alternative
economic rehabilitation measures were proposed. These include: (a) providing
alternative agricultural land to all those show found eligible for land-for-land under
Maharashtra Project Affected Persons Act. Accordingly 88 families were identified to be
provided with alternative land; (b) offering regular employment in MSEB subject to
availability and suitability; and, (c) imparting suitable training and later assisting them to
start self employment activities.
Implernentation of Economic Rehabilitation Program
9. In order to provide alternative agricultural land to all those identified to be provided
land, the district Collectorate identified land about 40 km from the existing site at Parodhi
village. Further, a resettlement colony will also be established. Out of the remaining 1 10
families, it is proposed to proved suitable regular employment to those who posses the
required qualification and skills and the remainder will be giving suitable training and
assistance in starting self-employed activities or will be covered under various
government programs. However, amonig those who are identified for land-for-land
option, 29 were given jobs in the MSEB. MSEB is currently identifying those living
below the poverty line to identify those eligible for providing assistance under
governmenit programs. Thus, the economic rehabilitation program is yet to be finalized.
Progress of Providing Basic Civic Amenities in Resettled villages
10. As part of the R&R program, MSEB/GOM committed to provide basic civic
amenities in the resettled villages. These basic amenities included the provision of
drinkinig water, approach and internal roads, street lightning, upgrading and addition
education facilities etc. As part of R&R programi, a new resettlement colony at
Godepeth has been developed, while villagers belong to Chargaon have developed
alternative village on their own. Further, another resettlement colony is being planned to
develop at Parodhi village in order to resettle all those who have been identified to be
offered alternative agricultural lands. The various facilities developed in these two
colonies include: four drinking water wells, the construction two school buildings, two
community halls, individual toilets, internal and approach roads,, open draining system
and street lighting. For the development of all these facilities and estimated amount of
Rs. 5.73 million ( USD 0. 14 Million) was incurred. Further facilities will be created
when the families move to the resettled villages.
Actionl Program for Completing Balance Activities
11. At the time of project appraisal, the Government of Maharashtra undertook to
complete the resettlement and rehabilitation related to families affected by unit 5 and 6
and issued a Government Order to complete the R&R program within 18 months from
February 1992 (SAR, Annex 3. 10, page 3). Due to various reasons, the program is still
under implementation and will take some time to complete all the actions related to



42
satisfactory implementation of R&R program. The outstanding R&R activities of this
program as on loan closing date (June 30, 1998) are:-
(a) physical relocation of 437 families;
(b) providing land-for-land to those eligible families. Out of SS identified unlder this
option, 29 have been given employment in MSEB;
(c) extending assistance for economic rehabilitationi to those 110 families living below
the poverty line (excludinug those 88 identified land for lanid option);
(d) completing the provision of employment in MSEB to those 114 wh1o are on the
waiting list; and
(e) creation or upgradinig of civ-ic ameneities in the resettlemenit colony, dependillg up on
the number people who move to the resettlemiienit colonies.
Major Factors Affected the Satisfactory and Timely Implementation
12. The following are the major factors affecting, the timely implemelntation of R&R
program.
(a) Absence of Proper Institutional Arrangements: The program was supposed to be
implemenited jointly by the district resettlement office under the overall coordinalion
of the district Collectorate and MSEB. There were no designated persons in MSEB
for lookinig after this programii exclusively. This task was usually assigned to a
Engineer in addition to hlis primary responsibilities. As a result, the implementation
of R&R activities suffered considerably. Further, there is imperfect coordination
amonig the district officials and MSEB. This is because the MSEB considers that it is
the state's responsibility to hanidle R&R issues. On the other hand the state position
is that the entity which causes the displacement should take an active role in the
welfare of the people and should take the lead in implementation.
(b) Non-availability of sufficient Funds: The R&R component did not have any
commiiitted fuLnds at the comm1ilenicemiienit of the project implementation. The required
funds were used to be sanctionled from time to time on ad-hoc basis. The non-
availability of committed funds has affected to a great extent the timely
implementation of this program.
(c) Lack of Proper Monitoring Arrangements: Proper monitoring arrangements will
go a long way for timely implementation of any program. Due to absence of defined
monitoring arrangements, the implementation of program was not followed closely.
Lessons Learned
13. The following are the key lessons learned from the implementation of R&R program
in this project:
(a) Self-relocation: The partial success of relocation program under this project is
attributed to self-relocation. Families belonging to Chargaon village have relocated



43
themselves on their own. The interaction with those relocated by themselves on their
own and those shifted to planned resettlement colony reveals that those who have
relocated on their own are far more satisfied than those who have been forcible
shii^ted to the planned colonies. This confirms that self relocation is a better
alternative to forced relocation.
(b) Upstream Planning: There was no approved plan for implemiienitation of R&R
program at the beg,inning, of the project. The specific resettlemenit problems were
identified from time to time durin, the project supervision. As a result, new issues
emerged as project implementation advanced. T'herefore, the implemiienitation of R&R
program could not be completed by loan closing date. Thc lesson leanit hiere is that
advanced, upstream planningii should include a well laid-out time-table, a commilitted
budget (part of the overall cost of the project), andi proper institutional arrangements
are all necessary for timely and successful impleme1nltationl of suchi a program.
(c) Participatory Approach in Decision Making: A numnber of decisions related to
resettlement implementation were made without taking into account the affected
people's views and concenis. For instance, the issue of payment of resettlement
grant, provision of individual toilets, selection of resettlement sites are some of the
examples. In these cases the success was eithier limited or negative. This confirms
that any decision related to resettlemenlt implemiienitation should take into the account
people's needs and concerns.
(d) Continued Bank supervision: The improved and continual Bank supervision in the
last two years of the subject project's implemiienitation has improved the
implementation of the R&R componecnit for the those affected by the construction of
units 5 and 6. As a result of contilnued supervision some of the issues, such as the
expediting of thc comi1plctioin of retrofit socio-economic survey, identifying the people
living below the poverty line and proposing measures for improving their living
standards, establishinlg a coordiniationi between the district administration and MSEB,
etc. wcrc cvcntually addr-esscd satisfactorily. The lesson learned is that continued
Bank supervision duLillg implemllenitationi will go a long way to successful and timely
iimpleilcnctationi of suchi a plan.
(e) Unit of entitlement lor rehabilitation: The unit of entitlement used was the family
anid accordinlgly onlC Imcimlbeir of eaclh of the families was provided with ajob in the
MSEB. Thlis has resultcd in a few cases of family intra-resentment. The persons
provided cmploymlecnit wcre separated and other members of the family continue to
Icad a subsistcncc livings. The lesson learned here is that the unit of entitlement for
economlic reliabilitationl should be adult individuals rather than families.



44
APPENDIX D
Financial Overview
1. MSEB's Financial Positioii at Project Appraisal.    At appraisal, in FY1992,
MSEB was performing vwell technically, but there were already signs of financial
problems looming in the future. While MSEB sold about 29 billion units (kWh) at an
average rate of Rs. 1 .09/kWh, wvhich was among thel higlher tariffs prevailing in India at
that time, the Board still needed a subsidy of Rs. 2 billion to achieve the statutory rate of
return of 3%. The rate of return for SEBs is mandated bvy law, as net proFit to net fixed
assets. Because most SEBs do not have any equity capita l, thc Indialni Electricity Supply
Act, 1948 allows interest as an expense and mandclates the SEB to carn a 3%1o return over
the cost of borrowed funds on assets created by borrovcd (an(d own/equity) funlds.
2. For an SEB, with a highly geared capital structure (as most SEBs have, even today) a
3% return, after interest, on net fixed assets provides a reasonable return, equivalenlt to
12-15% before interest. Also, although MSEB was covering its debt service requiremiienits
after taking the subsidy into accouLnt, it was uLnable to generate enough internal resources
to significantly contribute towards financing capital expenditure. As a result, capital
expenditure was financed primarily out of long term loans from GOM and other sources.
MSEB's receivables positioin from sale of power had started to decline, and in FY1992,
stood at 4.5 months of sales. Maharaslhtra agreed at negotiations to ensure that starting
FY 1993, MSEB would reduce its receivables to 2.5 months of sales, and earn an annual
return of not less than 4.5% on its historical net fixed assets in operation.
3. MSEB's Current Financial Position at Project Completion. MSEB performed
better than other state electricity boards durinig the project period, but its financial
position has deteriorated. In FY1996, FY1997 and FY 1998, MSEB needed significant
amounts of subsidy to achieve a 4.5°% return on its net fixed assets. In FY 96, while
MSEB booked a subsidy from GOM of Rs. 6.3 billion it actually received much less
(only about Rs. 3.8 billion by adjustmiienit against interest and lease rent due to GOM),
leading to a retumn on net fixed assets of about 1.3%. Even if the write-off of Rs. 1.65
billion  is excluded, the return would have been 3.4%. MSEB's operating revenues have
covered debt service requitemiienits, and it has been able to reduce payables on account of
fuel and power purclhase from 4.6 months of expenses in FY1992 to 1.5 months in
lFY 1 998, ancd has consistenitly miet the commercial accounts payables covenant of 2.0
niionitlhs.
4. MSEB's performianice on receivables however, has not been creditable, althouglh it has
containied tllc receivables position at slightly above 4 months of sales (mainly through
write-offs of uncollectible dues) over the project duration. While MSEB's collection
(excluding write-offs) of current bills has improved from 90% in FY1992 to 94% in
FYI 998, it has been unable to recover dues from specific categories of consumers such as
the Mula Pravara Society. Despite the Bank's recommendations, MSEB has not been
able to write off the large amounts which are due from the Society and other consumers,
even though MSEB itself considers these to be uncollectible. As is evident from the table



45
below, the majority of receivables (as a proportion of sales to the respective categories)
are frorn the Mula Pravara society and agriculture. The other significant contributor to the
defaults is the category of public bodies (government departments), accounts which are
directly or indirectly controlled by the government.
AnahNsis of Receivables for Sale of Pow er (For the year ended Nlarch 31, 1998)
Sales                  Receivables for sale of powera'
(Rs. Million)            < 2 mths 2-6 mths 6-12 mths  1-2 years    2-3  >3 years   Total Receivable
________________  _________   ___________  j vyears               s  (m ths)
Domestic           8107      568      722       438       366j   298       426    2817         4
~Commercial        4902      326      337       256        1901    164     224    1496         4
Industrial        51986      634      895       701       0 2) 2 2  1380    2409    S052       2
Agriculture        33t)1     284      1519      1442     1120   1)(03      1106   6473        24
Mula Pravara         58        0        0         ()                0     3108    3108       641
Public bodies      6536      590      523       496       195    228      1051   3083          6
Others            16765        0        0         1)       27    654         19    700
Total             91656     2401     3996      3332      3926   3732      8342   25729         3
a/: The totals do not match the audited figures since these nuilbers do not include some accounts.
5. MSEB is a clear case of a good utility being constrained by the priorities of the state
government. An example of this is the fact that MSEB's request for a tariff increase of
13%, effective April 1998, was delayed unitil September because of elections in the state.
Similarly, althouglh MSEB's receivables from certain categories of consumers have been
increasing, GOM has frequently issued orders restricting MSEB from taking corrective
or punitive action against them. MSEB's dependence on GOM  for tariff increases,
belatedly allowed, has resulted in a tariff structure which penalizes commerce and
industi-y too higlhly for their use of bulk-generated electrical energy.
6. Duc to Maharashtra's uLnwillillglness to allow increases in the tariffs for agricultural
consumers, commllercial and industrial consumers have experienced repeated tariff
increases, and this has resulted in large cross-subsidization. The consumer category
whichi includes large industrial users, currently pays about Rs. 3.7/kWh, while
agricultural consuLm]ers pay only about Rs. 0.25/kWh, compared to an average MSEB cost
of supply of about Rs. 2.3 1/kWh. As a result, and to avoid paying the industrial tariff,
industries arc increasingly depending on captive generation at uneconomic costs, i.e.
above MSEB's costs of production; and the position will worsen further (see next
paragraph), wheln tariffs again have to be increased.
7. While MSEB has been able to raise the requisite level of finances to meet its planned
capital expenditures, the situation is expected to deteriorate in the next few years. When
the expensive private power comes on stream, MSEB's finances will be badly impacted,
and the situation will worsen because MSEB will have to frequently back down its own
low-cost generation in order to fulfil the contractual obligations which MSEB has entered
into with the independent power producers. MSEB's ability to generate sufficient internal
resources to contribute meaningfully towards capital expenditure will be impaired



46
severely, and MSEB will increasingly have to depend on borrowings to finance its
investment plan, and perhaps even for operating and working capital needs.
The ability of the Maharashtra power sector to avoid this scenario, and indeed, its very
financial viability, hinges (a) on it having the requisite operational and managerial
autonomy, along with an incentive system which encourages reduction of inefficiencies,
to enable it to operate effectively as a commercially oriented utility, and (b) on it being
allowed tariffs which increasingly (even if gradtially, in some cases) move towards
recovering cost of supply from each categoiy of consumers. It is unlikely that these will
happen in the absence of coniprelhensive reforms whiclh distance the sector from the state
govemment, which enables independent regLulationl and wliclh brings in commercially-
oriented, private management in distributioni.



47
India
Second Maharashtra Poiier Project (1,N 3498-IN)
MSEB's Financial Performance - FY 92 to FY 02
Table 9 - Actual performance vis-Aj-vis SAR forecasts
(Values in Rs. Million)
Financial Year ended          I:Y 92          IFY 93              FY 94              FY '5              IY 96              I:Y 97                FY 98
March 31                    Act SAR est.   Act  SAR est.        Act  SAR est.       Act SAR est.    Act  SAR est.         Act  SAR est.        Act     SAR est.
Sales (GWh)               30,472   29,287 31,454     32,060   34,562    34,545   37,763   35,435  41,619    36,370   42,698       37,047    43,894       40,058
Average Tariff (Rs./ kWh)   1.08     1.09   1.37       1.31     1.51       1.44     1 61     1.60    1.69       1.69     1.99       1.79      2.09         1.85
Operating Income           6,719    6,896  9,258      8,454   10,164    10,643   10,226   13.117  10,840    14,163    11.095      14,998    12,264       15,942
Net Income                 1,253    1,453  2,721      2,360    2,8X9     3,656    3,208    5.476   3,496      5,596    3.460      5,703      3,423        4,903
Intemal Sources           10,805    9,637 15,643     12,899   17,938    15,210   19.362   17.830  18,092    1.95')  24.X2s    20.277    22,520          22,475
Borrowings                 8,348    9,190  9,103      9,396    8,033    12,348   11,304   16.359   7,652      13.247   1I.525     13.570    24,700       13,814
Total Sources             19,153   18,827 24,746    22,295   25,971    27,558   3(0.726   34,189  25,744    35,20(6   39(,53      33.847    47,220       36,288
Capital Expenditure       12,680    9,972 13,736     13,865   11,784     15,560   15,145   21.142  15,448    21. 90    19.931     18.142    20,431       18,648
WorkingCapital Changes    (2,533)     609   449    (1.191)    1,841      1,071    3,404      998  (2.214)       350    3.820       1,082    10,092        1.878
DebtService                9,007    8,246 10,562      9,621   12,344    10,928   12,178   12,049  12,510    12.947   14.902    14.622    16,697          15,763
Total Applications        19,154   18,827 24,747     22,295   25,969    27.558   30,727   34,189  25,744    35.20(6  38,(.53    33.847    47,220         36,288
CurrentAssets             22,771   21,354 29,383     20,704   28,628    23,741   33,775   26,320  44,214    28.021   41,797    30,503    54,779          34,300
Less Current Liabilities  30,551   17,972 38,335     18,925   37,766    21,391   34,834   23,078  44,239    25.359   42,158    26,168    47,596          29,805
(7.780)    3,382 (8,952)    1,779  (9,138)     2,350   (1,059)    3,241    (26)      2.002    (301)     4,335      7,183        4,494
Net Fixed Assets          82,909   79,897 93,164    91,071   100,698    103,453  108,930  121,042 115,969   138,987  126,794   152,743    141,513       166,176
Total Assets              75,129   83,279 84,212    92,850   91,561    150,803  107,871   124,283 115,944   141,649  1 26,433    157,079   148,696      170,671
Debt                      65,019   72,617 70,096    78,073   73,060    85,980   64,478   97,825  66,964    108,762   73,516    117,595    90,361        124,939
Equity                    10,111   10,662 14.115     14,777   18,502     19,823   43,394   26,459  48,980    32,887   52,918    39,483    58,336         45,732
Total Debt+ Equity        75,130   83,729 84,211     92,850   91,562   105,803  107,872  124,283 115,944   141,649  126,434   157,079   148,696         170,671



48
FY 92                 FY 93                 [FY 94                  FY 95                 [   )96                 FY 97                  FY 98
Ratios                   Act  SAR est.         Act  SAR est           Act  SAR est.          Act  SAR est           Act  SAR est           Act  SAR est.          Act  SAR est.
Rate of Retum                     3.%        3.56,      5.2'%       48%        48%/.       6.0%       4.70%       8.1%       1.3%.      7.7%,       4.5%1      7,0%V,.     4.5%1X     5.7%
Rate of Return (Before           16.2%h,    12 TX,    17.98%M      12.4%      16.9%,.    1 390/,     1 5 1 %X   15.8%       13 9(%,    15.2%N,    14.4%XI    15. 1PX      16. 1      12.2%
Interest)
NICG as%ofCapital                11.60/,     8.1%      27.4A%      30.8%      11.2%       20.0%Y,    38.3'%     25.0%1    -2.3%V,1   25.(t%V,    40.1%        250%T,    -7.0%       25.0%
Expenditure
DebtServiceCoverage                 1.0        1 2         1.2        1.3         1.2        1.4        1 4         I.5        1.5        1.5         1.4         1.4        1.3        1.4
CurrentRatio                        0.7         1.2        0.8        1.1        0.8         1.1        1.0         1.1        1.(         1 1        1 0         1.2        1.2         1.2
Debt as 'Y. of 1)ebt +[quity       0.87       0.87       0.83        0.84       0.80       0.79        0.60       0.79       0 58        0.77       0)58        0.75       0.61        0.73
Covenants
Return on Net F:ixed Assets
Covenant           0                  4 51X%                 4.5'%,                4 5%fo                 4 5',,                 4.5',,                 4.5%
Actual      3.0%                   5 2%                   4 8%                  4.7%,                 1i.3f,,                 4 5,                   4.5%
Receivables (mofiths)
Covenanit        0.0                    2 5                    2.5                   2.5                    2.5                                           2.5
Actual        4.5                    4.6                    4 6                   4.4                    4 2                    3 7                    4.0
Payables - fuel, power (months)
Covenant         0.0                    2.0                    2 0                   2.0                    2 6                    2 0                    2.0
Actual        4.6                    5.0                    1 9                    1.7                   1.(                    I 8                    1.5
DSCR
Covenant          1.2                   1.2                    1 2                    1.2                   1 2                    i 2                    1.2
Actual         1.0                   1.2                    1.2                    1.4                   1.5                    1.4                    1.3
Actual (Institutional,      O.6                    1.4                    1.3                   1 6                    1 1                    1.3                    1.2
excluding subsidies)
SFR (excluding subsidies)
Covenant           0                 20.0(6                 20 0'%o               25.0%/o                25.00%,                25.0%                  25.0%
Actual     11.60/%                27 4%                  11.2%                 38.3%N,                -2.3%                  40.  /'                -7.0%1



