4-Aj  H /6jf  ,/J
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  10604-IN   Type:  (SNR)                   ReportNo. 10604-IN
CHASSARD, // X81873 / ElO1Ol/ SA2EG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
JUNE 3, 1992
Energy Operations Division
India Country Department
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March, 1992)
Currency Unit      =        Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00            =        Paise 100
Rs 1,000,000                US$39,216
US$1.00            =        Rs 25.5
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)                 =  1,000 meters (m) = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)                      =  39.37 inches (in)
1 Cubic Meter (mi)               =  1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) = 35.35 cu. ft.
1 Ton (t)                        =  1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 lbs
1 Kilovolt (kV)                  =  1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt-ampere (kVA)          =  1,000 volts-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)                  -  1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)            =  1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)            =  1,000 kilowatts-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)            =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
BSES      Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Ltd.
CEA       Central Electricity Auithority
DEA       Department of Economic Affairs
DOP       Department of Power
EDF       Electricite de France
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GOI       Government of India
HVDC      High-Voltage Direct Current
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
LICB      Limited International Competitive Bidding
LRMC      Long-run Marginal Cost
LTIPS     Long-Term Issues in the Power Sector study
MSEB      Maharashtra State Electricity Board
MIS       Management Information System
NHPC      National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NICG      Net Internal Cash Generation
NPTC      National Power Transmission Corporation
NTPC      National Thermal Power Corporation
ODA       Overseas Development Administration
OFAP      Operational and Financial Action Plan
PFC       Power Finance Corporation
REB       Regional Electricity Board
SEB       State Electricity Board
SCF       Standard Conversion Factor
TEC       Tata Electric Companies
The Act   Electricity Supply Act of 1948
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Loar. and Project Summary
Borrowers            India, acting by its President
Beneficiarys        Maharashtra State Electricity Board (HSEB)
Amount:              US$350 million
Terms:               Repayment over 20 years, including five years grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:    The Government of India (GOI) will make the proceeds of the
loan available to the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) under the
standard terms for central assistance to the states. GOM will
retain US$1 million for part of the technical assistance
component, and onlend US$349 million to HSEB, at an interest
rate not less than the prevailing coupon for GOI long-dated
securities, currently 12.5Z per annum, with a repayment period
of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years.
Project
Description:         The proposed project comprisess (a) the construction of the
last stage of Chandrapur thermal power station by the addition
of a 500 MW coal-fired unit; (b) the construction of a + 500
kV, 1,500 MV HVDC line from Chandrapur to Padghe, near Bombay
(about 735 km), and the related terminal stations; (c) the
implementation of an accelerated distribution reinforcement
program aimed at reducing losses in selected areas; and (d)
consulting services to be provided in the following four areas:
Ci) load research and preparation of electricity demand
management measures; (ii) development of MSEB's environmental
management capabilities at the corporate level; (iii)
preparation of private power projects in Maharashtra; and (iv)
institutional review of the power sector in Maharashtra.
Benefits:            The main benefits of the project are: (a) an increase in power
supply and improvements in the quality of service in
Maharashtra; (b) strengthening of MSEB's finances and
managerial autonomy; (c) more economic use of generating
capacity through better pricing policies, demand management and
loss reduction measures; (d) reduced reliance on the central
government for financing investment requirements by increasing
MSEB's self-financing capabilities and improving external
resource mobilization as well as facilitating private sector
investments; and (e) strengthening of NSEB's environmental
impact management capability.
Risks:               The project does not pose any particular technical risks, in
view of the proven designs and engagement of well-qualified
consultants to assist MSEB in project implementation. The main
project risks relate to: (a) the availability of supplier
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
financing for the HVDC link, on reasonable terms; (b) possible
delays in the procurement process; and (c) the pace at which
tariff and other institutional reforms will be implemented.
These risks will be minimized by: (a) assisting MSEB in
preparing the tender documents for the HVDC link to help obtain
the most attractive financing offers; (b) having finalized
during project preparation a model bid document, contract
packages and the associated procurement plan; (c) having the
first tariff adjustment, involving major improvements in the
structure of tariffs as well as a significant increase in their
level, implemented before Board presentation; (d) establishing
realistic targets for MSEB's financial performance and the
implementation of further tariff adjustments, demand management
measures and institutional reforms; and (e) providing technical
assistance to help MSEB and GOM implement these measures.



Estimated Cost: a/
Local     Foreign      Total
--------(US$ million)------
A. Chandrapur Unit 7 (500 HW)             172        236         408
B. Hl")C Transmission Link                133       181          314
C. Accelerated Distribution Program        65         41         106
D. Consulting Services and Equipment        1          2           3
TOTAL BASE COSTS                          371       460          831
Physical Contingencies                  23        26           49
Price Contingencies                     1.7        60          77
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                        40        86          126
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        411       546          957
Interest During Construction (IDC)
World Bank                              43         74         117
Others                                  95        55          150
TOTAL IDC                                 138        129         267
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                  549       675        1,224
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                     -        350          350      29
Export Credits                           -         200         200      16
GOM                                     305         -          305      25
M3SEB                                   244        125         369      30
Total                                 549       675        1,224     100
_m - =
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):
Bank Fiscal Year                    FY93b/ FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Annual                              39.8   34.9   71.8  113.2   83.1    7.2
Cumulative                          39.8   74.7  146.5  259.7  342.8  350.0
Economic Rates of Return:  In excess of 12X.
a/ Including taxes and duties of about US$72 million equivalent.
b/ Including special account initial deposit of US$19 million.



INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ................. .................. i
I.  SECTORAL CONTEXT.. ................ ........... . ...... 1
Overview  ..................   ; ;. *....-
Electricity Supply, Demand and Tariffs ................ 2
Organization of the Power Sector ...    . .................. 3
GOI Strategy in the Power Sector ............... ........4
Past Bank Group Operations and Strategy   .......    5
Towards a New Approach in the Power Sector  ............ 8
II. THE BENEFICIARY - MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD ...... 9
Organization  and  Manpower  ...................................... . 9
Operational and Managerial Performance ............... 10
Electricity Tariffs ......................... ...... 10
MSEB's Investment Plan ............ .....  ... ........ .11
Institutional Development   ....... ... ........ 1.-
Private Sector Power Development in Maharashtra ......13
III. THE PROJECT ............ .................. 14
Project Objectives ......     .. .................. 14
Project  Description  .1................................ 14
Cost Estimates .....................1
Project Financing .     ......... .1....... *, . .. .15
Project Management ..... ..... .. se ..... ... . .  17
Status of Project Preparation ......... ............. 17
Project Schedule ....... ..... ............. 18
This report was prepared by Mmes. Joulle Chassard (Senior Financial Analyst) and
Nandita Parshad (Economist) and Messrs. Argun Ceyhan (Senior Power Engineer), Akbar
Khawaja (Financial Analyst), Mihir Mitra (Power Engineer), and Kari Nyman (Energy
Economist). The report has been reviewed by Mrs. Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk (Senior
Power Engineer, SA3EI) and Mr. John Besant-Jones (Principal Economist, IENED). The
report has been endorsed by Mr. Heinz Vergin, Director, India Country Department,
and Mr. Jean-Francois Bauer, Division Chief, Energy Operations Division, India
Country Department.



- ii -
Page No.
Procurement ........................                   ........... 18
Disbursements  .................................                ..... 19
Resettlement and Land Acquisition  .................... 20
Environmental Aspects  .... ....  . ....               .................  20
Benefits ....................................... 23
Risks ....................... o . 23
Project Monitoring and Supervision  ................... 23
IV.   FINANCE  ... * ...... *   ..........         ..       ..    ........................ 24
Introduction         .        ......... ......         ........... 24
Past Performance and Present Financial Situation  ..... 24
Billing and Collection  .............................. 26
Future Financial Performance  ......................... 27
Accounting and Auditing ...            ........................ 29
V.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ......................................... 30
Electricity Demand in the Western Region  ............. 30
Least-Cost Analysis ................... 31
Economic Viability of the Western Region Program  ..... 31
Project Analysis ....... 32
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................. 33
Agreements reached during Negotiations  .............. 33
Recommendation ......... 35



- iii -
ANNEXES
1.1    All-India: Electricity Demand and Supply
1.2    Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector
2.1    MSEB's Head Office Staff Set-up as of March 1992
2.2    A Comparison of the Performance of MSEB and Other SEBs
2.3    MSEB's Electricity Tariff
3.1    Project Description - Design Features
3.2    Project Cost Summary
3.3    Consultants Employed by MSEB for Project Engineering & Implementation
3.4    Project Management Structure
3.5    Project Implementation Schedule
3.6    Key Dates for the Construction of the Project Components
3.7    Procurement Arrangements
3.8    Procurement Schedule
3.9    Schedule of Disbursements
3.10   Environmental Assessment - Summary
3.11   Environmental Management Program
3.12   Supervision Plan
4.1    Actual and Forecast Income Statements
4.2    Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets
4.3    Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
4.4    Assumptions followed for Financial Projections
5.1    Western Region: Past and Projected Power and Energy Demand
5.2    Western Region: Electricity Consumption by Consumer Category
5.3    Comparison of the Economic Cost of Generation
5.4    Comparative Cost Analysis of HVDC and 800-kVA Options
5.5    Western Region: Average Power Prices by State and Union Territory
5.6    Western Region: Average Power Prices by Main Consumer Category
5.7    Estimated Economic Costs of Autogeneration
5.8    Estimated Financial Costs of Autogeneration
5.9    Valuation of Economic Benefits for Each Consumer Category
5.10   Program Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
5.11 Project Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
6.1    Related Documents in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 23691
IBRD 23692



INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Overview
1.01        Over the past decade, electricity consumption in India increased
at ar. average annual rate of about 91. Despite significant progress in system
expansion, power shortars continue and, in FY92, were equivalent to about 92
of total energy and 1L   i peak capacity requirements.  Power supply is likely
to continue to constrairn economic growth in India well into the next century.
As pointed out in a recent Bank study of the power sector1, unless increased
emphasis is placed on improving the efficiency of supply, consumption and
pricing of electricity, continued focus on supply capacity expansion will
aggravate the critical power demand/supply situation and is likely to be
financially unsustainable. A major challenge for the Government of India
(GOI) in the power sector in the 1990s will thus be to attain a better balance
in sector development between supply expansion and efficiency improvements.
1.02        The growing power gap (difference between potential deman4 for
electricity and available supply) is attributable to a combination of
institutional, pricing and operational inefficiencies. Closing it would
require bold actions on institutional arrangements as well as bulk and retail
power tariffs, billing and collection, in a country where the responsibilities
for managing the sector are split between GOI and the states, and where, as a
result, electricity has become a highly charged political issue. State
governments, often at the highest political level, have effectively assumed
control of most major decisions of the state utilities, including those on
investments, tariffs, borrowings, salary and personnel policies. Improving
sector efficiency will require the commercialization of the state electricity
boards (SEBs), involving the establishment of a transparent regulatory
framework to provide them with operational and financial autonomy while
maintaining accountability for performance. The proposed project addresses
these power sector efficiency issues in the state of Maharashtra.
1.03        With a per capita level of about 270 kWh per annum, electricity
consumption in India is among the lowest in the world, and demand is expected
to continue to expand at an average growth rate of 8Z per annum. Massive
investments in additional capacity will be required, even if GOI and the state
governments pursue efficiency improvements in the sector. In the face of the
current and medium-term budgetary constraints, central government funding of
the sector's investment program is likely to be insufficient; the state and
central government-owned utilities will thus have to rely increasingly on
Long Term Issues in the Power Sector (LTIPS), December 1991. The
study was prepared in 1990-91, with financing from the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom and the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID). It was
formally discussed with GOI in February 1992.



-2-
their own internal resources as well as private inv~estment. However, the
ability of the SEBs to mobilize internal resources is hampered by their poor
financial condition.
1.04        Although GOI has opened the power sector to private investment,
remaining uncertainties in the regulatory framework and the poor financial
position of most SEBs will constrain the realization of the potential
contribution of private power. The project will assist Maharashtra in
developing its private power policy and regulatory framework within GOI's
national guidelines and to contract with private developers for two major
power generatiun projects.
Electricity Supply, Demand and Tariffs
1.05         India's power system has an installed capacity of over 69,000 MW.
This makes its size comparable with that of France, the United Kingdom. or all
of sub-Saharan Africa excluding the Republic of South Africa. In FY92, this
system generated about 283,500 GWh, about 70? from coal-fired power stations,
25Z from hydro stations, and 5? from gas, oil and nuclear stations (Annex 1.1
provides additional statistics). Supply has expanded quickly: in FY82
installed capacity was only 32,350 MW, and generation 114,000 GWh. In
parallel with the growth of supply, operational efficiency has improved. For
example, the plant load factor has increased from 442 to about 55? over the
last ten years and the rate of coal consumption by power stations has been cut
by about 1O0. These improvements reflect a strengthening of r.lant maintenance
and operations and are commendable in view of the deteriorating quality of
coal the sector is receiving. However, auxiliary consumption exceeds 1OZ,
technical and commercial losses in transmission and distribution are estimated
at 22? of net generation and interruptions and reductions in supply and
voltage are common. The poor quality and unrcliability of public supplies
cause consumers to purchase costly back-up generating capacity.
1.06        Industry consumes about ha.f (51?) of all eleLLric power;
agriculture uses 22Z; residences 15Z; ctmmerce 62; and public services the
balance (Annex 1.1). The growth in electricity demand has been accelerated by
relatively low power tariffs which have fLstered wasteful end-use of energy.
Average retail tariff rates have increased only slightly since FY82 in real
terms and remain at about 50? of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC). Increases
in real costs (particularly for fuel and wages) have offset the increases in
efficiency and real tariffs. In the meantime, tariff differentials among
consumer groups have widened. Industrial consumers have taken the brunt of
the increases over the last ten years and the rates to large industrial
consumers are in most states now close to, and in some cases even above, LRMC.
Agricultural tariffs, on the other hand, have fallen in absolute terms and now
cover less than 10? of their supply costs. Partly as a result of this
subsidization, agriculture's share in total consumption has grown from about
17? in FY82 to 22Z in FY90. Compounding the problem is the poor collection
from farmers, and high transmission and distribution losses. They contribute
to an increasing financial burden imposed by agriculture on the power sector.
A similar situation applies to the residential uses of electr4city.
1.07        GOI's intensified pressure on the states to raise tariffs has
yielded encouraging results: since April 1990, most state governments have
authorized their SEBs to increase their tariffs. In addition, in September



1991, the State Power Ministers agreed to implement a minimum agricultural
tariff. In their April 1992 meeting, they set the minimum rate at RB.
0.50/kIWh. At the moment, two SEBs (Assam and West Bengal) comply with the new
minimum agricultural rate. The tariff reform process has at best only just
started and the challenges ahead are formidablet regular tariff adjustments
and better collection practices, starting with but going well beyond the
implementation of the agreed minimum tariff, would be needed to restore the
financial viability of SEBs.
Organization of the Power Sector
1.08        Central Sector.  Responsibility for electricity supply is shared
constitutionally between GOI and the states. Through the Department of Power
(DOP) of the Ministry of Power and Non-Conventional Energy Sources, GOI
controls the Centra.. Electricity Authority (CRA), the National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC), the
North Eastern Electric Power Corporation (!sEEPCO) and the newly-created
National Power Transmission Corporation (NPTC), and, through CEA, supports the
operations of the Regional Electricity Boards (REBs). DOP also controls the
Energy Management Centre (EMC) and two financial intermediaries, the Power
Finance Corporation (PFC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).
CEA's tasks are to develop a national power policy and coordinate sector
development. NTPC and NEPPC are bulk supply utilities which sell power to the
SEBs. REC plans and finances most investments in rural electrification. PFC
mobilizes resources for and promotes operational and financial reforms in the
SEBs. NPTC ie consolidating the development of the transmission system and is
being developed to facilitate improvements in the operation of the generation
and transmission system. Under the same Ministry, the Department of Non-
Conventional Energy Sources administers GOI's renewable energy program, which
seeks to supplement conventional power supply with alternative energy systems,
e.g., mini-hydro, biomass, wind and solar energy, as well as meet the
decentralized energy needs of the rural sector.
1.09        State Sector.  The states control the SEBs and the State
Generation Companies (SGCs), which together generate about 75Z of electricity
supply and provide most of the distribution to final consumers. Although the
Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 (the Act) grants them considerable autonomy,
in practice the SEBs and SGCs must obtain state government approval (often at
the highest political level) for mast major decisions including those on
investments, tariffs, borrowings, salary and personnel policies. The SEBs and
SGCs are grouped into five regional interconnected power systems. The REBs
coordinate generation and maintenance schedules including plant dispatch and
inter-state power exchanges in these five regional systems. The effectiveness
of REBs is, however, limited by their lack of authority on their member SEBs,
severe deficiencies in system control and communication facilities and
weaknesses in the structure of bulk power tariffs.
1.10        Private Utilities.  At independence, private utilities and
licensed local authorities together provided about 80Z of public electricity
supply. The Act created the SEBs and entrusted them with primary
responsibility for public power supply. The Act also made the SEBs
responsible for regulating p.-ivate utilities. The Industrial Policy
Resolution of 1956 subsequently defined aspects of generation and distribution
which were to be the exclusive responsibility of the states. Most licensees



4-
were taken over by the SEBs when their licenses expired, and no new licenses
have been granted since 1956. Only five private utilities remain: Bombay
Suburban Electric Supply Limited (BSES), Tata Electric Companies (TEC),
Ahmedabad Electricity Company (AEC), Surat Electric Company (SEC), and CESC
Ltd. (formerly Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation). All but BSES generate
at least some of the power they distribute2; their generation capacity totals
about 2,800 MW. In addition, an estimated 6,250 MW of captive generating
facilities are operated by industries.
GOI Stratszy in the Power Sector
1.11        The objectives of GOI's energ policy are to: (a) achieve energy
self-relian:e; (b) reduce oil import dependence; (c) meet rural energy needs;
and (d) improve the efficiency of energy production nnd use. Specific
investment objectives in the power sector under the Eighth Plan (FY93-97) are
expected to include: (a) accelerating the completion of ongoing projects,
particularly hydroelectric investments; (b) encouraging the construction of
energy efficient and environmentally benign gas-based combined cycle plants;
(c) rehabilitating existing plants; and (d) increasing investments in
transmission and distribution relative to investments in generation.
1.12        To achieve the Plan objectives, it is essential that GOI and the
state governments tackle the sector's financial and institutional problems. In
Inada's federal structure it is difficult to condition central assistance to
the states as budgetary allocations are set by an automatic allocation
formula. Within this framework, GOI is using more intensively the investment
selection and project implementation monitoring process to accelerate
improvements in the sector, by emphasizing investments in operational
improvements, earmarking funds to specific projects and monitoring the use of
funds and SEB performance more closely on a project-by-project basis. GOI has
also started to promote reforms by exercising its leverage in the use of
discretionary funds not subject to the automatic allocation formula. These
funds essentially include PFC financing and funds from external assistance.
PFC will lend only to utilities which have undertaken to implement an
Operational and Financial Action Plan (OFAP), endorsed by their state
governments and aimed at improving the utilities' resource mobilization and
operational efficiency. GOI's efforts to develop PFC into a viable and
effective instrument for promoting improvements in the power sector are
supported by the Bank (Loan 3436-IN: Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement
Project approved in January 1992), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) under a
parallel operation approved in March 1992, and by USAID under a related
technical assistance program for PFC's institutiondl development.
1.13        Faced with a growing power gap and diminishing public resources
available for the sector, GOI has also taken steps towards opening the power
sector to the private sector. In the July 1991 modificat!in to the Industrial
roLicy Resolution, power was remn%ed from the list of activities reserved for
the public sector. In September 1991, the Act was amended to lift many of the
regulatory disincentives to private investment in the power sector. In
particular, it allows full ownership of power companies by the private sector,
2      BSES is now in the process of constructing its first generating
plant, a 2x250-MW coal-fired unit at Dahanu.



- 5 -
an extended period of license of 30 years with 20-year renewals and increased
financial returns. Provision is made for private generating companies and
captive plants to sell power to the SEBs. Foreign companies are also allowed
to implement power projects. A High Powered Board chaired by the Cabinet
Secretacy was established in October 1991 to promote private investment and
accelerate the clearance of projects. So far, a total of about 23,000 MW of
generating plant projects have been advertised by various states for private
sector investment. About 2,300 MW have been classified by DOP as awarded to
selected developers although no agreements have yet been finalized. In
addition to supply expansion, GOI's increased reliance on the private sector
will also lead to improved financial discipline among the SEBs since private
investment would only go to states with an attractive policy environment and a
financially sound SEB. However, in the near term, the regulatory
uncertainties that remain despite GOI's policy initiatives, and the poor
financial position of most SEBs constrain the realization of the potential
contribution of private power. The proposed project will assist Maharashtra
in developing its private power policy and regulatory framework within GOI's
national guiedelines and to contract out with private developers for two major
generation projects (para. 2.12).
1.14        PFC and private power initiatives are complemented by: (a) GOI's
increased reliance on the central generating companies (NTPC, NHPC) for the
expansion of supply in order to improve cost recovery and ensure that priority
projects are implemented efficiently; (b) the development of NPTC and related
bulk power tariff reforms to improve the operation of India's generation and
transmission system; (c) the establishment of a National and five Regional
Tariff Advisory Committees to advise GOI, state governments, SEBs and central
sector utilities on the level and structure of bulk and retail tariffs needed
to ensure the financial viability of all agencies in the sector; and (d) the
adoption of energy conservation measures. Following the recent approval of
amendments to the Act, GOI has now the authority to set the tariffs of the
central utilities and has decided to improve the structure of NTPC's and
NHPC's tariffs to help rationalize system operations.
Past Bank Group Operations and Strategy in the Power Sector
1.15        Lending.  The Bank group has made 33 loans (US$6.3 billion) and 18
credits (US$2.3 billion) for power projects in India (Annex 1.2)3.
Twenty-seven loans and credits have been completed: 20 for generation; four
for transmission; and three for rural electrification. Ongoing loans and
credits include fifteen for generation; three for transmission; and six which
include a mix of generation, transmission and distribution. Six loans have
been extended to private utilities. The most recent loan was to PFC in January
1992. The physical implementation of most Bank power projects in India has
proceeded slowly, but eventually, after significant initial delays, has
broadly met expectations. Performance audits conducted for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) and the First and Second Rural
Electrification projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN) highlighted the
difficulties of effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a clear
division of responsibilities between the central entities and the SEBs.
Project completion reports show that the Third and Fourth Transmission
8      Loan and credit amounts are net of cancellations.



projects (Credits 377-IN and 604-IN) experienced similar difficulties; despite
some progress, in general, SEBs did not respond to GOI's initiatives. These
lessons from past operations had an important bearing on the design of the
recent PFC operation and have strongly influenced the Bank's current lending
strategy.
1.16        Loan and credit disbursements continue to show large outstanding
balances (US$3,497.2 million as of April 30, 1992). These are due primarily
to the long construction periods for generation projects compounded by
frequent delays in procurement, in foreign exchange and import license
clearances by the various ministries and in counterpart fund releases from
state governments. Undisbursed balances have been pushed up further by
frequent cost underruns on major equipment contracts. The latter are due, in
some instances, to the softening of international markets in the mid-1980s
and, in others, to the depreciation of the Rupee. The Bank has reviewed the
level of potential savings in its power loan portfolio for India and on
December 5, 1991, canceled US$418.6 million as these funds were no longer
required for project implementation. IFC has made five investments totalling
US$203 million to AEC and TEC in FY89, TEC and CESC in FY90, and BSES in FY91.
1.17        The Bank has had two lending operations with the Maharashtra State
Electricity Board (MSEB): the first one for the Chandrapur Thermal Power
Project (Ln. 2544-IN) in 1985, and the second for the Maharashtra Power
Project (Ln. 3096-IN) in 1989, part of which is implemented by the Irrigation
Department of the Government of Maharashtra (GOMID). These projects are
helping MSEB expand its generation, transmission and distribution facilities,
renovate and modernize existing power plants, and enhance its capabilities in
many areas of utility operation, management and project implementation. Both
projects have encountered difficulties in the early stages of their
implementation due, to a large extent, to the slow pace of procurement. More
recently however, MSEB's extensive use of model bidding documents approved by
the Bank has improved the situation considerably. Funds available under Ln.
2544 are now practically fully committed; two thirds have already been
disbursed and most of the remaining balance is expected to be disbursed in
FY93. Bidding for the part of the Maharashtra Power Project implemented by
MSEB is now almost complete and about US$70 million worth of contracts have
already been awarded, mainly in the past six months; such progress will soon
be reflected in accelerated disbursements. Furthermore, savings of about
US$46 million have already been identified, and GOI has requested the Bank to
cancel an equivalent amount from the loan. Similar progress has been achieved
in the part of the project executed by GOMID, with US$50 million worth of
contracts awarded in February 1992 and tenders for the remaining packages
expected to be issued at end-June 1992. Compliance with loan covenants has
generally been satisfactory. The lessons learned from these projects have had
an important bearing on the preparation of the proposed project, particularly
as regards the need to improve MSEB's procurement procedures and increase its
self-financing capabilities.
1.18        Past Strategy.  Over the last decade, IBRD followed a three-
pronged strategy in its lending to the power sector in India. Firstly, it
supported agencies owned by GOI as a means of effecting sectorwide
improvements. Secondly, it financed a selected number of SEBs whose
management and state government appeared to be committed to reforms. Finally,
and in close cooperation with IFC, it financed existing private power



-7-
utilities to improve their financial and economic efficiency and to encourage
GOI to lower entry barriers for new investors. The success of this strategy
has been uneven.
1.19        Experience with Central Agencies.  IBRD has helped NTPC become
India's model utility and, in the process, improve operational efficiency
nationwide. In FY92 NTPC provided about 212 of India's total power supplies
and the operational efficiency of its plants has consistently surpassed that
of the state utilities. After some delays in the pre-construction stages,
NTPC generally constructed its projects on schedule and within budget,
reflecting the strong project management capability it has developed. The
procedures introduced by NTPC in quality control helped improve the quality
standards of power equipment supplied by Indian manufacturers. However, GOI's
and the Bank's efforts to use NTPC to develop the power sector into an
efficient and commercially viable part of the economy have fallen considerably
short of the objective. The pervasive nature of the sector's financial
problems and the relative autonomy of the states in power matters limited what
could be achieved through NTPC.
1.20        The financial health of NTPC has been threatened by the continued
accumulation of receivables from the SEBs. At the end of May 1990 they stood
at the equivalent of about six months of sales and the Bank had to inform GOI
and NTPC that support for new projects would no longer be possible unless
actions to reduce NTPC's receivables position were taken. NTPC has since
enforced financial discipline through means such as letters of credit and in a
few cases attempted to limit the supply of power to the level of payments
received. In addition, a debt-equity swap with the Uttar Pradesh State
Electricity Board (UPSEB), NTPC's main debtor, has been completed. It
involved NTPC taking over the two existing units and an ADB loan for the third
and fourth units of Uttar Pradesh's Unchahar Power Plant, in exchange for
receivables and increasing the value of UPSEB's letter of credit to the level
of expected sales from NTPC. With these measures NTPC's accounts receivable
were brought down to about 2 months in February 1992, in line with the
covenant under the most recent Bank loans. NTPC's collection problems will
not be permanently resolved, however, until its commercial arrangements with
its clients are strengthened and the SEBs' financial performance is
substantially improved through retail tariff adjustments and collection
improvements.
1.21        Experience with SEBs.  Beginning in the mid-1980s, IBRD attempted
to improve the performance of SEBs by direct involvement at the state level.
This approach, involving close lending relationship with the SEBs, has been
successful in a few cases, such as MSEB. Projects with institutionally and
financially weaker SEBs have not met expectations, forcing the Bank to apply
increasingly strong remedies, up to loan cancellation in the case of the Delhi
Electric Supply Undertaking (DESU) in 1989, suspension of disbursements under
the Uttar Pradesh Power Project in April 1991 and formal threat of suspensions
of loans to the SEBs in the States of Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala
in June 1991. The Bank's stance has yielded positive responses from the
concerned state governments, including substantial tariff adjustments in
Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh. Continued close and frequent
rupervision of the SEB loans is necessary to help ensure continued compliance
,ith loan agreements, setting effectively a limit to the number of direct SEB
operations.



1.22        Experience with Private Utilities.  The Bank and IFC's experience
with the private utilities has been generally satisfactory. Unlike the SEBs,
private utilities have been allowed by their respective state governments to
operate autonomously and in a technically and financially viable manner. They
have not suffered from the institutional and financial problems of the GOI-
owned entities either, because the power they generate is largely fed into
their own distribution networks which supply financially lucrative urban
residential and industrial consumers.
Towards a New Approach in the Power Sector
1.23          The Bank supports GOI's recent major policy reforms in the
sector, namely the creation of PFC and NPTC, the channelling of discretienary
funds by the center only to the performing SEBs, and an increased role for the
private sector. The key constraints to be addressed are the lack of financial
autonomy and the poor financial discipline of most publicly-owned utilities,
combined with the absence of commercial incentives and subsidized power prices
in most states. Physically, these constraints cause India's power system to
provide less power and of a poorer quality, at higher cost, than it otherwise
would be able to provide. The economic costs of shortages and poor quality of
supply are exacerbated by inefficient use of power which is encouraged by
inefficient pricing and non-collection of dues.
1.24        The evolving lending strategy would continue to support capacity
additions through the private sector and efficient public utilities while at
the same time giving increased attention to improvements in the utilization
and efficiency of existing operating assets. It would seek and support
actions by GOI to address fundamental issues in the power sector such as
imbalances between capacity expansion and efficiency improvements in the
investment plamning and fund allocation process, problems in the current
central sector power (and also coal and natural gas) allocation process, the
operational efficiency of the power system, the institutional structure of the
state utilities and poor resource mobilization in the power sector. In
addition, issues relating to energy conservation, environmental and
sociological aspects of power development will be taken up. Bank lending for
power would focus on:
(a)   promoting domestic and foreign private investments, including
support to joint ventures between the private sector and well-
managed public utilities and assistance to the states for
developing policy framework and contracting private power;
(b)   projects implemented by either center or state utilities
benefiting states whose SEBs either perform in a satisfactory
manner or have started implementing credible plans underwritten by
their states to improve their performance and finances, with
emphasis on significant up-front tariff adjustments. Loans to
such agencies would in particular support investments designed to
improve the utilization, operations and efficiency of existing
power generation, transmission and distribution facilities;
(c)   investments that promote energy conservation and demand-side
management; and



--9-
(d)   innovative, small-scale developments such as mini-hydro, co-
generation and non-conventional energy schemes which are
environmentally sound and cost-effective.
1.25        The first operation prepared in line with the above strategy was
approved in January 1992, in support of GOI's efforts to develop PFC into an
agent of reform in the power sector (para. 1.12). The proposed project also
fits into this strategy. It addresses key power sector issues in Maharashtra
and promotes: (a) operational efficiency improvements including the reduction
of transmission and distribution system losses and load management; (b)
improved internal and external resource mobilization and electricity pricing
reforms; and (c) institutional reforms including the enhancement of the role
of the private sector.
II. THE BENEFICIARY - MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Organization and Manpower
2.01        The Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) was constituted in
1954 under the Act and is responsible for generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity throughout the State of Maharashtra. It
constructs and operates generating stations and transmission and distribution
networks to supply electric power to final consumers and a licensee (TEC). It
also issues licenses to private power utilities in Maharashtra4 and for
private captive generation. MSEB operates the largest state power system in
India, with an installed generating capacity of 6,934 MW as of March 31, 1992
(10Z of all India), of which 1,296 MW is hydro, 4,966 MW is coal-fired, and
672 MW is gas-fired. MSEB's network consists of about 177,000 km of
transmission lines (11 kV and above) and 317,000 km of distribution lines
(below 11 kV), and includes transformer substations with an aggregated
capacity of 42,989 MVA. MSEB serves about 8.3 million customers, comprising
5.6 million domestic, 1.6 million agricultural, 0.8 million commercial, and
0.2 million industrial consumers.
2.02        MSEB is managed by a Board consisting of a full-time Chairman and
three full-time Members (for Accounts, Technical, and Administration). Board
members are appointed by the state government and define MSEB's general
policies as well as manage their respective sectors. At the end of FY91, MSEB
had about 106,000 regular employees and about 14,500 skilled workers employed
in non-permanent positions. MSEB's organizational chart, presented in Annex
2.1, reveals well-defined responsibilities for its operating units at its
headquarters, regional divisions and project sites. Transmission and
distribution responsibilities, including commercial activities, are carried
out by six regional chief engineers who supervise twenty-four districts, each
headed by a superintendent engineer. Generation (operations and maintenance)
4      The Tata Electric Companies (TEC) and Bombay Suburban Electricity
Supply (BSES), both operating in Bombay. TEC generate about two
thirds of their peak load requirements and purchase the balance
from MSEB; in addition, TEC transmit power through their lines to
MSEB's clients and sell power to MSEB to meet the latter's energy
requirements.



- 10 -
is organized in eight zones corresponding to the main power plants and
transmission substations. MSEB executes itself a considerable part of its
development program, especially transmission lines and substations.
Operational and Managerial Performance
2.03        MSEB compares favorably with other SEBs in India according to most
productivity indicators (Annex 2.2). Labor productivity is well above the
average for India's state electricity boards, measured both in terms of number
of employees per GWh sold (3.7 against an average of 5.8 for all SEBs) and per
1,000 consumers (12.8 versus an average of 17.1). MSEB's management has since
FY89 placed a freeze on recruitment for all lower level staff.  MSEB's thermal
plant load factor reached 60.6Z6 in FY91 compared to the national average of
about 55Z; average availability was close to 77Z. While transmission and
distribution losses in FY91 were at 15.52 against a national average of about
22Z, system losses have slightly increased over the last'\few years,
essentially as a result of the rapid expansion of the distribution system.
The proposed project will help MSEB to reverse this trend (para. 2.09).
2.04        As part of the execution of the Maharashtra Power Project (Loan
3096-IN), MSEB launched in 1990 a comprehensive program of managerial
development to strengthen its overall operational and managerial performance,
particularly in the areas of organization, management information systems and
planning. MSEB also engaged a team of consultants to prepare a human
resources development plan, including monitorable annual staff productivity
targets, and a manpower plan; the consultants' recommendations are expected to
be available by July 1992 and will be reviewed with the Bank. While overall
progress in the implementation of the program has been satisfactory, delays
have incurred in: (a) strengthening the Internal Control Unit into an
autonomous Internal Audit Unit reporting directly to the Chairman; and (b)
establishing the much needed corporate planning unit. MSEB is taking steps to
accelerate the formation and staffing of such units. An Operational and
Financial Action Plan (OFAP) signed with GOM and PFC in January 1992 contains
specific actions to correct critical deficiencies in stock management, cost
control, plant maintenance, billing and collection. In view of PFC's
anticipated role as one of MSEB's major financiers and to reinforce the
significance of the action plan, it was confirmed during negotiations that
MSEB will implement the OFAP and that its key quantified targets will be
inc: 4ed in the key performance indicators to be closely monitored during
projeLi supervision (para. 3.25).
Electricity Tariffs
2.05        Against the Indian context of heavy political interference in
tariff setting, the pace of tariff reform in Maharashtra has been impressive
in recent years, with the tariff level increasing at an average annual rate of
7.4Z in real terms in the FY85-91 period. MSEB's tariff was last adjusted in
May 1990. The adjustment raised MSEB's average tariff revenue to about Rs.
6      This indicator would have been much higher had coal supply been
adequate: the loss of generation during FY91 due to coal shortage
was 1,873 GWh, equivalent to about 112 of total thermal
generation.



- 11 -
1.09/kWh, equivalent to about 63Z of the revenue that would result from strict
LRMC-based pricing. This ratio is well above the Indian average of about 502
of LRMC, and along with MSEB's better than average operational efficiency, has
enabled MSEB to achieve a reasonable financial performance. State government
subsidies have, however, been necessary to compensate for the losses caused by
the low agricultural tariffs and meet the statutory 32 minimum after-interest
return on net fixed assets. It should be noted that MSEB's 3Z after-interest
return in FY90-91 corresponds to a conventional (before-interest) rate of
return of about 111 (Table 4.1). However, the current tariff structure still
includes sharp divergences from the LRMC structure. While the tariff to large
industrial and bulk supply customers is reasonably well in line with LRMC,
tariffs to other industrial and commercial customers are about 50-602 of LRMC,
and the rates to residential and agriculture customers, at about 25X and 52 of
LRMC respectively, are even below MSEB's average financial cost of supply.
2.06        During project preparation an intensive dialogue took place
between GOM, MSEB and the Bank on further tariff reforms, focusing in: (a) the
need to raise MSEB's tariff revenue in order to ensure satisfactory financial
performance and increase contribution to future investment from internal
resources; and (b) improvements in the tariff structure to reduce the
remaining distortions. A new tariff, presented in Annex 2.3, was introduced
on May 21, 1992. The adjustments made raise the average revenue by more than
202 and bring MSEB's conventional (before-interest) rate of return to about
122, corresponding to an after-interest rate of return of about 5Z, well above
GOI's statutory 32 minimum. While agricultural tariffs could not be adjusted
due to the persistent severe drought conditions in Maharashtra, the new tariff
includes the following changes: (a) limit on the application of the financial
subsidy to low-income residential consumers only (defined as those consuming
less than 50 kWh/month) and progressive increase in the rates applicable to
relatively well-off consumers to bring them closer to their estimated LRMC;
(b) significant increases in the tariff for commercial and low-voltage
industrial consumers; (c) adjustment in the level and structure of the high-
voltage industrial tariff to bring the structure better in line with LRMC; and
(d) introduction of an adjustment clause for the automatic recovery of
increases in MSEB's purchased power cost, i.e., from NTPC, TEC and the Tarapur
Atomic Power Station. MSEB plans to pursue its power pricing reforms and
include in its next tariff adjustment proposal the implementation of the Rs.
0.50/kWh minimum agricultural tariff rate to meet the new national target
(para. 1.07), the introduction of an effective time-of-day (TOD) tariff for
large industrial consumers and MSEB's supply to TEC, and further increases in
all other categories (particularly large residential and commercial consumers
and low-voltage industrial consumers).
MSEB's Investment Plan
2.07        While MSEB's operational efficiency compares favorably with other
SEBs (para. 2.03), a further increase in the relative share and volume of
investments to reinforce MSEB's transmission and distribution system is
needed. GOM and MSEB have decided to make efficiency improvement a priority
area for MSEB. Accordingly, proposed generation and rural electrification
investments have been cut in MSEB's investment plan and several major programs
and projects have been initiated to reduce system losses and improve
operational efficiency. MSEB's investments in the Eighth Plan period are
projected at about Rs. 90 billion in current terms (including interest during



- 12 -
construction). The plan has been reviewed during project preparation and
found to be technically, financially and economically sound. The major
components of this efficiency-oriented plan are discussed below.
2.08        Generation.  MSEB's investments in new generation projects have
been reduced radically and entail only one new plant, Chandrapur Unit 7, under
the proposed project. The other two new generation projects, the extension of
the Khaperkheda coal station and the new Nagothane combined cycle plant, have
been taken out of MSEB's investment program and assigned to the private sector
(para. 2.12). MSEB will also convert its existing Uran gas turbine plant to
combined cycle, to increase its capacity and generating efficiency. In
addition, MSEB is implementing a comprehensive program of rehabilitation and
renovation of its other existing generation stations, for operational and
environmental improvements.
2.09        Transmission and Distribution.  The transmission system from
Chandrapur (MSEB's main mine-mouth generation center in the eastern part of
Maharashtra) to the Bombay area (the main load center) will be reinforced
under the proposed project. Projects for urban distribution rehabilitation
and reinforcement, covering the major part of the 55 cities with a population
of 50,000 or higher, have already been prepared and projects for the remaining
cities are under preparation. Distribution master plans for each of the 32
districts in Maharashtra have also been prepared. Given the resource
constraints, it is not, however, possible to rapidly implement a statewide
program for distribution efficiency improvement outside the main urban areas.
In order to initiate such a program and make it financially more affordable,
the following actions have been agreed under the proposed project:
(a)   selected district master plans (those with the highest potential
for loss reduction) have been packaged into an Accelerated
Distribution Reinforcement Program, for implementation under the
project;
(b)   a technical assistance component has been formulated to help
design additional efficiency improvement and demand management
measures. The project will help initiate the program and train
concerned MSEB staff;
(c)   the May 1992 tariff adjustment includes major increases in
residential and commercial rates (para. 2.06), to contain the
demand growth and reduce the financial burden of supply of these
consumer groups, and will be complemented, in the next tariff
revision, by the introduction of the minimum Rs. 0.50/kWh
agricultural tariff; and
(d)   MSEB's target for annual pump connections has been cut from about
100,000 to about 60,000 in the new investment plan. This is
regarded by GOM as the absolute minimum number of new connections
as the cut extends the average waiting time of the 300,000
applicants on the waiting list from 3 years to 5 years.



- 13 -
Institutional Development
2.10        As seen above, severe resource constraints limit MSEB's ability to
implement all the investments that would be required to meet fully the
potential demand and improve the quality of power supply while achieving a
higher degree of operational efficiency. The need to mobilize a significant
amount of additional financing outside the traditional Plan allocations from
GOI/GOM has become paramount. HSEB's success in tapping new sources of
finance (such as PFC, capital markets and export credits) will depend to a
large extent on its ability to develop from a relatively well-run SEB into a
viable commercially oriented entity, with increased managerial, financial and
administrative autonomy. This would require not only that HSEB pursue its
efforts at improving its operational and managerial performance, but also that
its role, organization and modus operandi be reexamined against the background
of the evolving longer-term institutional development and performance
objectives of the power sector in Haharashtra.
2.11        GOM has established a high-level committee to review the present
institutional setup for the sector, assess the need to adapt it to the
changing environment (financial constraints, increased number of private power
suppliers and coordination of their respective development plans), and
reconmend ways to make MSEB a financially autonomous and accountable entity.
On the basis of terms of reference agreed at negotiations, the committee will
examine inter alia the appropriate regulatory framework that would: (a)
provide MSEB autonomy, with accountability for results; (b) reduce political
intervention in MSEB's affairs, the tariff adjustment process in particular,
and set clear technical and financial performance criteria, on the basis of
which the appropriateness of investment decisions and tariff revisions could
be determined in an objective and transparent manner; (c) provide a forum for
interaction with other interested parties including electricity consumers; and
(d) define MSEB's role in the development of private power in Maharashtra.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that GOM will discuss the committee's
findings and recommendations with the Bank not later than December 31, 1993
(para. 6.02 (a)). Provisionis for consulting services have been included in
the project to enable the committee to benefit from the experience and advice
of internationally-renowned experts in the field of power sector regulation
and organization.
Private Sector Power Development in Maharashtra
2.12        The private sector has long maintained a strong presence in
Maharashtra, with TEC and BSES serving a large part of the Bombay metropolitan
area. In view of the prevailing resource constraints and in line with GOI's
recent policy initiatives, GOM and MSEB have decided to encourage the private
sector to assume an even wider presence and to allocate two of MSEB's three
new generation projects for the Eighth Plan (para. 2.09) for implementation by
the private sector: (a) the 2x210-MW extension of MSEB's existing 2x210-MW
coal-fired power station at Khaperkheda; and (b) Nagothane, stage 1 (410 MV)
of an ultimate 2x410-MW gas-fired combined-cycle power station. Six potential
project sponsors have been prequalified and requested to submit technical and
price proposals. A technical assistance grant was recently approved under the
Japan Grant Facility to help GOM and HSEB in private power development, with
the Bank as the executing agency. The focus of the technical assistance is
on: (a) finalizing the legal and incentive fr&mework for the implementation of



- 14 -
the power generation projects by the private sector in Maharashtra within
GOI's overall framework; (b) developing an efficient and transparent framework
for evaluating the bids, including the preparation of detailed evaluation
criteria; and (c) helping GOM and MSEB negotiate and conclude contracts with
the selected sponsors during 1993. Given that the grant may only cover part
of the work required, the proposed project will provide additional consulting
services to enable GOM to complete the contracting process, including
financial closure for the two power projects (para. 3.02).
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Objectives
3.01        The main objectives of the project are to: (a) support operational
efficiency improvement; (b) improve internal and external resource
mobilization; and (c) promote institutional reforms including the enhancement
of the role of the private sector.
Prolect Description
3.02        The componert., of the proposed project, described in detail in
Annex 3.1, are:
(a)   the construction of the last stage of Chandrapur thermal power
station by the addition of a 500-MW coal-fired unit (Chandrapur
unit 7);
Cb)   the construction of a + 500-kV, 1,500-MW HVDC line from Chandrapur
to Padghe, near Bombay (about 735 km), and the related terminal
stations;
tc)   the implementation of an accelerated distribution reinforcement
program aimed at reducing losses in selected areas; and
(d)   consulting services in the following four areas: (i) load research
and preparation of electricity demand management measures; (ii)
development of MSEB's environmental management capabilities at the
corporate level; (iii) preparation of private power projects in
Maharashtra; and (iv) institutional review of the power sector in
Maharashtra. Activities to be carried out under (iii) and (iv)
would be implemented by GOM.
3.03        Coal for the Chandrapur power plant is mined at the nearby Wardha
Valley coal fields and no new coal mine will need to be developed for the
purpose of meeting the requirements of the power plant expansion under the
project. At negotiations, GOI reaffirmed that it will take all steps
necessary to ensure adequate and timely supplies of suitable coal for the
proposed power plant (para. 6.01).
Cost Estimates
3.04        The estimated cost of the proposed project is summarized in Table
3.1. Details are given in Annex 3.2. Cost estimates for the civil works are



- 15 -
based on available data from other projects engineered by MSEB and its various
consultants. Cost estimates for equipment and materials are based on
estimates received from a number of manufacturers and have been compared with
the cost of Chandrapur units 5 and 6 and other similar projects. The
estimated cost for consulting services is based on an estimatod 130 man-
months, of which about 50 man-months are expected to be from local
consultants. Base prices were updated to Harch 1992. Physical contingencies
amount to about 5.92 of the base costs (physical contingencies of 4Z on
equipment and civil works were assumed on the basis of experience with Units 5
and 6 at Chandrapur and similar power plant projects; 72 on equipment and
civil works for the HVDC transmission project; and 102 for equipment and works
associated with the accelerated distribution reinforcement program). Price
contingencies, which amount to 32.52 and 8.82 of the base costs, in Rupee and
US Dollar terms respectively, are based on the expected annual domestic and
international inflation rates. The domestic inflation rates used for the cost
estimates are as followss 10.52 for 1992, 8.52 for 1993, 7.52 for 1994, 6.5Z
for 1995, 62 for 1996, and 52 for 1997 onwards. The international inflation
rates used are 3.72 for 1992 and thereafter.
Table 8.1: Estimated Pro3ect Cost. I
Projoet Components                        Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign  Total
- Re. million ---------  -------USS milion--------
I. Chandrapur Unit 7 (600 MW)            4,401.8  6,012.9 10,414.2  172.6   286.8   408.4
II. Chandrepur-Padgh, HVDC Trnamisoion Link    8,400.6  4,620.0  8,020.5   188.4   181.2   814.6
11. Accelorated Distribution
Reinforcement Progrm                 1,654.8  1,086.0  2,690.8   64.9    40.6   105.5
IV. Consulting Servicee and
Associated Equipmnt                    17.9    51.0    68.9    0.7       2.0      2.7
Total Base Coete                        9,474.5 11,719.9 21,194.4  871.6   469.6   881.2
- Physical Contingencles                  581.9   669.0  1,250.9   22.8    26.2    49.0
- Price Contingencies                   2,684.8  4,8a0.5  7,294.8   17.7    59.5    77.2
Totel Contingnclles                     ,248.2  5,299.5  8,645.7   40.5    85.7   128.2
Total Project Cost                     12,720.7 17,019.4 29,740.1  412.1   545.8   957.4
s:c=z.        e==~                  e==
Interest During Construction
- Bank Loan                             1,882.7  2,401.1  8,788.8   42.8    74.8   117.1
- Other                                 8,0o5.7  1,767.1  4,822.8   94,4    55.1   149.7
Total - Interest During Construction    4,488.4  4,188.2  8,606.6   187.4   129.4   266.8
Total Financing Required               17,159.1 21,187.6 88,846.7   649.5   674.7  1,224.2
-_ __-E; =                  ==
/a Includes taxes and duties of about US872 million. Indirect foreign costs of local
contracts amount to USS881 million and are Included In total foreign costa.
Pro3ect Financing
3.05        The project is the largest component of MSEB's investment program
over the next few years. The proposed Bank loan of US$350 million would cover
about 292 of the total financing requirements, net of duties and taxes. The
loan would cover part of the estimated foreign exchange requirements and part
of the ex-works costs for contracts expected to be awarded to local suppliers
under international competitive bidding (ICB) and would help finance



- 16 -
Chandrapur Unit 7, the HVDC line, the accelerated distribution reinforcement
program and consulting services. Export credits would finance the major part
of the foreign exchange costs of the HVDC terminals (para. 3.07). The
financing plan is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
Local          Foreign          Total
Currency       Currency
----------US$ million-----------                z
IBRD                                   350              350           29
Export Credits         -               200              200           16
GOM                   305               -               305           25
MSEB                  244              125              369           30
Total              549              675           1,224          100
3.06        The Bank loar would be lent to India.  GOI will make the proceeds
of the loan available to GOM under the standard terms for central assistance
to the states . GOM will retain US$1 million for part of the technical
assistance component (para. 3.02) and onlend US$349 million to MSEB for the
implementation of the remaining components, at an interest rate equal to the
prevailing coupon rate for GOI long-dated securities, currently at 12.5?, with
a repayment period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years. GOM and
MSEB will enter into a financial arrangement that will include inter alia
provisions for the issue of separate government orders for the release of the
funds to MSEB to ensure transparency of such lending and the submission to the
Bank of copies of the above-mentioned orders on a quarterly basis (para. 6.02
(b)).
3.07        In order to secure foreign exchange financing for project
components not financed by the Bank, such as the HVDC terminals, MSEB is
seeking cofinancing from expor-,'supplier credits, and the corresponding
tenders were floated on March 30, 1992. The tender documents specify that the
foreign exchange financing is sought at OECD consensus terms, or better.
Three major manufacturers of HVDC equipment have already purchased the
documentation and at least one more manufacturer is expected to follow suit.
Informally, the prospective bidders have indicated to MSEB their intention to
also offer financing packages. Copies of the results of such preliminary
consultation has been provided to the Bank. In order to address fully the
Bank's concerns regarding the project's financing plan, MSEB has requested the
prospective bidders to further ascertain their intentions to provide financing
for the terminals and obtain formal preliminary commitments, some of which
have already been forwarded to the Bank. It was agreed at negotiations that
satisfactory financial arrangements for the construction of the HVDC terminals
would need to be finalized before the loan is made effective (para. 6.03 (a)).
Given that present GOI guidelines preclude MSEB from direct external
6      These are expected to involve GOI passing 100? of the Bank loan
to GOM.



17 -
borrowing, it is envisaged that the required export credits will be channelled
through PFC, with MSEB assuming the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Prolect Management
3.08        The Industries, Energy and Labor Department of GOM, through the
Secretary, Energy and Environment, will be responsible for supervising the
consultants that will assist in the program for private power development and
advise the high-level committee in charge cf reviewing the institutional
development of the power sector in Maharashtra. MSEB would be responsible for
implementing all the other components of the proposed project, with the
assistance of consultants, except for the distribution program. The list of
consultants employed by MSEB for this project and their respective
responsibilities are given in Annex 3.3; in particular, because the technology
used for the transmission link will be new to MSEB, the latter has retained
the services of Hydro-Quebec International/Lavalin of Canada, as well as a
team from NTPC to assist in the preparation of this component of the project.
All the consultants are acceptable to the Bank. MSEB has demonstrated
competence in project management during the construction of the previous Bank-
financed projects. MSEB's proposed project management structure is shown in
Annex 3.4, detailing arrangements for Chandrapur Unit 7 and the HVDC link. No
special organization is required for the implementation of the accelerated
distribution reinforcement program as MSEB is adequately organized to carry
out these distribution works as part of its normal distribution operations.
The Distribution Department will be responsible for the engineering and
management of the Program. ,t has experienced engineers and upgrading of its
planning facilities is being financed un4er Loan 3096-IN.
Status of Proiect Preparation
3.09        Bidding documents for the two major contracts of the Chandrapur
Unit 7 component, viz. boiler and turbine generator, have been submitted to
the Bank for approval. These two contracts will account for about 502 of the
Bank loan. The documents are expected to be issued for tendering by end-July
1992. Bidding documents for the other contract packages will be finalized
based on the technical specifications from the boiler and turbine-generator
contractors. Since unit 7 will basically be a replication of units 5 and 6 in
its essential design fuatures, no difficulties are envisaged in the
preparation of bid specifications incorporating the final design. Bidding
documents for the HVDC terminals were reviewed by the Bank although
procurement will be under export credits. The scope and final cost estimate
of the accelerated distribution reinforcement program was agreed at
negotiations. Agreement was also reached that MSEB will submit to the Bank,
no later than March 1 of each year, a work plan, including the list of
distribution lines and substations to be financed by the Bank during the
following year, the list of contract packages for which tenders will be
invited, and the associated timetable for the procurement of equipment and
materials to be financed by the Bank (para. 6.02 (c)). The implementation
schedule of the load management program, described in Annex 3.1, was also
confirmed at negotiations.
3.10        A model bidding document for the supply of goods was agreed under
Loan 3096-IN and has been updated for use under the proposed project. It was
finalized at negotiations.



18 _
Project Schedule
3.11        The project would be implemented over a period of six years and
is expected to be completed by December 1997, with the closing date for the
loan to be set at June 30, 1998 (Annex 3.5). The imp:ementation schedule for
the proposed 7th unit at Chandrapur is based on experience under units 5 and 6
and is substantially shorter than the Bank standard in South Asia, resulting
also in substantially faster disbursement of the Bank loan (para. 3.14). The
schedule assumes that the contracts for the boiler, turbine-generator and HVDC
terminals are awarded ao later than January 1993. Chandrapur Unit 7 is
scheduled to be synchronized with the Western Region Interconnected Grid in
March 1997, and would be put into commercial operation ty June 1997. The HVDC
transmission link would be put into operation by March 1997, in accordance
with the timing for commissioning of Unit 7. Key dates for milestone
construction activities (Annex 3.6) were confirmed at negotiations.
Procurement
3.12        The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 and
shown in detail in Annex 3.7. This annex also shows the contracts which would
be financed under the proposed loan. Major milestones of the procurement
process are given in Annex 3.8. The bulk of the equipment (totalling about
US$410 million) will be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines; some of them would
also include civil works (e.g., substation structure and transmission lines);
this would ensure better coordination during implementation. Local
manufacturers would be expected to bid for most categories of equipment, and a
domestic preference of 152 or the corresponding import duty, whichever is
less, would be applied in the comparison of bids for equipment contracts.
Contracts worth less than US$100,000 each and with an aggregate value of
US$6.3 million (of which the Bank-financed portion is estimated at about US$5
million) may be awarded by receiving bids from at least three suppliers.
Contracts worth US$1 million or more would be sabject to prior review by the
Bank; this category is estimated to cover about 90Z of the value of all ICB
contracts. Smaller contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
The main consultants for the project have already been appointed and are
financed by MSEB (para. 3.08). Consultants for the technical assistance
component would be appointed in accordance with the Bank guidelines for the
selection of consultants. Main civil works, in multiple packages, to be
financed under non-Bank funds, will be procured under local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures. The nature of works entailed under this category is
unlikely to attract foreign bidders; however, foreign contractors will not be
prevented from participating in LCB. To secure satisfactory performance
guarantees, the main package for the Chandrapur and Padghe terminal statior.s
(US$239 million) would be procured as a single responsibility contract, under
Limited International Competitive Bidding (LICB) and on a supply-and-erect
basis and will be financed under suppliers' credit (para. 3.07). MSEB will be
encouraged to procure the other non Bank-financed equipment and materials
packages under ICB procedures.



- 19 -
Table 8.8: Suwmariof Proosed Procurement Arrangments g/
(U3S million equivalent)
--Procurement Method----
Project Element             ICB     LCB    Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Civil Works              16 0     -        -    48.6 I    68.6
(11 .0)      -)  (-)(- )          (11 .0)
2. Goods (Equlpment A      867.0     -       6.8   460.4     828.7
Machinery)       (802.0)  ( - )    (650)  ( - )     (807.0)
8. Erection Services        87. 6/  -         -      -        87.5
(80.0)  (-)    (-)   C-)          (80.0)
4. Consulting Services
4.1 Engneerlng
and Supervision        -      -        -     29.9       29.9
C-)   (-)    (-)    (-)           (-)
4.2 Technical Assistance   -      -       2.7      -        2.7
C-_ )   ( - )    (2.0)            (2.0)
Total                      409.5     -       9.0    688.9    957.4
(848.0)  ( - )    (7.0)   ( - )    (850.0)
LI Contract veaues includo contingencies, taxes and duties (US871.6 million).
/ Civil works portions of the equipment contracts which will be procured under
g/ Main civil works, in multiple packages, which will be procured under LCE
procedures.
d/ Erection portiono of the equipmont contracts which wil be procured under ICD.
lCs:   International Competitive Bidding.
LCD:   Local Competitive Bidding.
Other:  Side from at least thre suppliers, and selection of consultants according
to Bank guidelines.
N.S.F.: Not Sank-financed (including UCB).
Note:  Figures In parenthesis are the aounts financed by the Bank loan.
Disbursements
3.13         Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be made against:
(a) 100? of the foreign currency expenditures (CIF), and 10O? of the local
ex-works cost, and 0S of other local expenditures for equipment; (b) 90? of
expenditures for civil works and erection services; and (c) 10O of the
services rendered by consultants. Disbursements for: (a) equipment and civil
works under contracts valued less than US$200,000 equivalent, and (b) all
erection services, would be made against statements of expenditures (SOE), the
documentation of which would not be sent to the Bank, but would be retained by
MSEB for inspection by supervision missions. All other disbursements would be
fully documented.
3.14         To facilitate disbursements, a special account will be
established for the Bank loan with an authorized allocation of US$19 million,
equivalent to four months of average disbursements under the project. Annex
3.9 shows the estimated disbursement schedule as derived from the construction
programs of the project components (para. 3.11), assuming normal terms for
commercial payments, including retention payments. The aggregated



- 20 -
disbursement profile for the project is six years and does not fit IBRD's
standard profiles because: (a) the project is at a relatively advanced stage
of preparation; and (b) some of the components have particular characteristics
such as Chandrapur 7 being the last unit of a large power plant and the
distribution reinforcement program being relatively quick to implement. The
last payments are estimated to be made during the first half of 1998.
Accordingly, the closing date for the loan would be June 30, 1998.
Resettlement and Land Acquisition
3.15        The proposed extension of the Chandrapur power station does not
involve any new displacement of population as adequate space is already
available on the existing plant site for the installation of the seventh and
last unit and no new land needs to be acquired. The construction of units 5
and 6 led to the displacement of about 800 families to whom a rehabilitation
compensation (in addition to the compensation for land/house structure
acquisition, when applicable) was paid. Although this cash compensation has
enabled a large number of families to resettle in satisfactory condition, some
families still remain to be fully resettled and rehabilitated. The Government
of Maharashtra issued in February 1992 an order to complete their resettlement
and rehabilitation within a period of 18 months. The implementation of the
resettlement and rehabilitation plan7, which will require the identification
of the families according to specific eligibility criteria, has already
started.
3.16        The land for the HVDC terminal station at Chandrapur is already
available with MSEB and no additional land will be required. The terminal
station at Padghe is being established near MSEB's existing 400/220-kV
substation. A major portion of the land is already available with the Board.
A few acres of additional land required for AC/DC interconnection adjacent to
the existing substation is being acquired and will not involve any human
resettlement or rehabilitation.
Enviroxtmental Aspectse
3.17        Status of Environmental Assessments and Clearances.  MSEB's
consultants, Associated Industrial Consultants India Private Ltd., have
prepared an environmental assessment (EA) report examining the likely
environmental impacts of the entire power plant at its ultimate design
capacity, with all seven units in operation. The environmental clearance for
Chandrapur unit 7, granted by Government of India in February 1990, is
contingent on the construction of: (a) a multi-flue stack of not less than
275-meter height, and (b) the installation of a flue gas desulphurization
(FGD) unit. The National Airports Authority formally issued in February 1992
its no-objection to the construction of the 275-m chimney, tlus enabling MSEB
to proceed with the project. MSEB commissioned additional modeling studies to
7       An action plan for the lmpl wsntation of tho RA program was submitted during
appraisal and is In tho Proj et Fi la.
S       Deils to1 f the *nviron-sntal aspects of the projet are described in the
Environmental Assessment Summary given in Annex 8.10. The Summary was distributed
to the Executive Directors on February 28, Im and has been updated to reflect
tho finding. of the appraisal mission.



- 21 _
predict ground level concentrations of SO2 and NO at various locations around
the plant@. The results, reviewed by the Bank ana found satisfactory,
indicate that the air emissions from the plant with all 7 units in operation
at full load and burning the worst quality of coal, would remain in compliance
with the guidelines of GOI, GOH and the Bank, suggesting that installation of
an FGD unit is not warrantedl. MSEB's request for the deletion of the
makdated FGD unit is now under consideration by GOI. Pending a possible
relaxation of GOI's requirements, MSEB is making adequate provisions for the
FGD unit in the project design; these are reflected in the project cost
estimates and financing plan. The Bank has however indicated to MSEB that it
would not finance this facility. MSEB has prepared an environmental
assessment for the proposed HVDC transmission line and associated terminals.
Forest clearance for the construction of the transmission line was issued by
the Ministry of Environment and Forests (GOI) in May 1992, subject to two
conditions: (a) land already identified for compensatory afforestation should
be transferred to the state forest authorities; and (b) MSEB should transfer
funds to GOM to cover the cost of afforestation. It was agreed at
negotiations that compliance with these conditions would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para. 6.03 (b)). CEA and Planning Commission approvals
will be issued immediately after the forest clearance.
3.18        Environmental Aspects of Chandrapur Unit 7.  The design of the
proposed unit at Chandrapur ensures that the limits imposed by the applicable
environmental guidelines of the Bank as well as GOI are not exceeded at the
fully developed plant capacity of 2,340 MW. The expected ground level air
quality and the total SO and NO emissions, with all seven units in
operation, will remain within reKgulatory requirements, even without a flue gas
desulphurization unit. The proposed stack height of 275 meters will help in
plume dispersion over a wider area. NO generation will be controlled in the
pulverized coal-fired boiler, by property designed burners that use a low-
excess air combustion system. On-line instrumentation to be installed at the
stack will monitor emissions on a continuing basis. Fly ash will be removed
by the electrostatic precipitators at 99.5Z collection efficiency for the
entire plant with seven units11.  Since the Chandrapur power plant uses a
closed cooling water circuit, the thermal pollution caused by the plant is
insignificant. As the condenser cooling water cascades down through the
cooling towers, in a fine mist through a strong countercurrent of induced
draft of air, the temperature will fall to the ambient level by giving up heat
to the air. The wind will quickly dissipate this heat. A waste water
treatment facility will be constructed in parallel with the proposed project
to treat all liquid effluent of the seven units of the power plant and reuse
the treated water for ash-handling purposes. This recycling of water is
expected to reduce the offtake from the neighboring Erai reservoir by as much
as 65,000 ma/day which can then be released for downstream use. The waste
water treatment plant is scheduled to be in operation in December 1993.
9       Tho associated report has bean included In the Project Fila.
10      The invostigations were made assumlng a chimney height of 200 metre for Unit 7,
Identical to those for unite 5 and 6. Now that the unit w.uld be equipped with a
275-meter high chimney, the ground level concentrations would be further reduced.
The electrostatic precipitator. of unite 1 through 4 will be upgraded under Loan
2644-IN, to ensure at loast 99.6X collection efficiency for the entire plant.



- 22 -
Agreement was reached at negotiations that MSEB will implement various
environmental mitigatory measures at Chandrapur, including, inter alia, the
implementation of the waste water treatment and management scheme, the
installation of dust suppression systems, the retrofitting of the ash pond,
and the acquisition and installation of air quality monitoring equipment,
according to an agreed implementation schedule (para. 6.02 (d)).
3.19        Environmental Aspects of the Chandrapur-Padghe HVDC Line.
Transmission facilities will be designed and constructed in accordance with
current technological practices that will ensure minimum disturbance to the
environment. The route for the 736-km long transmission link has been
selected so that only 7.8 km (i.e., 1.6Z of the total length of the line)
infringes on forest land - mainly degraded forest - in different patches along
the route in four districts. About 1,500 trees along these 7.8 km will be
felled within two 3-meter wide corridors, corresponding to an area of 5 ha.
However, MSEB will bear the cost of compensatory afforestation on 41 ha (i.e.,
almost ten times the land area that will need to be cleared). Government land
for compensatory afforestation has already been identified and accepted by the
state forest authorities. Final forest clearance was issued subject to
fulfilment of two conditions (para. 3.17)
3.20        Consultations with Affected People.  A substantial amount of
consult'tion has taken place with affected people by MSEB and state
authorities concerning the environmental impact of the project, particularly
on the resettlement issues linked to the construction of the previous stage of
the Chandrapur power station (units 5 and 6). As part of the requirements for
obtaining project approval from the central government authorities, a
notification was published in the government gazette and all major state
newspapers in December 1988, announcing MSEB's intention to proceed with the
proposed project. In addition, MSEB will make a summary of the environmental
assessment report available to the public. To that effect, a notification was
placed on May 15, 1992 in 16 local newspapers of the state, specifying the
locations at which this document, duly translated into Marathi, can be
obtained.
3.21        Environmental Management, Monitoring and Supervision.
Environmental matters are presently handled by MSEB only at plant level. At
the corporate level, there is no central environmental unit per se responsible
for formulating environmental policies and regulations for the whole company
as well as for monitoring their implementation, including resettlement and
rehabilitation matters.  The proposed project will entail a component aimed at
strengthening HSEB's environmental capability at the corporate level by
establishing a central environmental unit responsible for: (a) formulating the
company's environmental policies; (b) establishing standards for the dispobal
of effluent and emissions and the associated treating technologies; (c)
setting up a company training center and establishing training programs for
the staff at v'arious management and operational levels, in the areas of
environment, safety, resettlement and rehabilitation; and (e) coordinating the
monitoring and evaluation of MSEB's performance in implementing the company's
environmental policies, including resettlement programs. Provisions for
consulting services for assisting in the establishment of the central
environmental unit have been included in the project (para. 3.02). Terms of
reference for the consu'ltants, to be appointed not later than June 30, 1993,
were agreed at negotiations (Annex 3.11). It is expected that it will take



- 23 -
about 18 months for the consultants to complete their assignment and enable
MSEB to implement their recommendations.
3.22        At the plant level, HSEB monitors emissions and effluent quality
at each of its power station on a daily basis, with the help of contractors.
The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board staff visits the power stations
periodically and verifies measurement results recorded by MSEB and reviews all
effluent quality analysis reports. In future, to facilitate monitoring,
measuring instruments will be provided at the stack, with alarm capability to
signal operation beyond acceptable parameters. An air monitoring station will
be set up at Chandrapur, with an appropriate number of satellite stations, to
help monitor the ambient air quality on a continuing basis.
Benefits
3.23        The main benefits of the project are: (a) an increase in power
supply and improvements in the quality of service in Haharashtra; (b)
strengthening of MSEB's finances and managerial autonomy; (c) more economic
use of generating capacity through better pricing policies, demand management
and loss reduction measures; (d) reduced reliance on the state government for
financing investment requirements by increasing MSEB's self-financing
capabilities and improving external resource mobilization as well as
facilitating private sector investments; and (e) strengthening of MSEB's
environztental impact management capability.
Risks
3.24        The project does not pose any particular technical risk as: (a)
the technology used for units 5 and 6 at Chandrapur will be replicated for the
seventh unit; and (b) India, through NTPC, has already acquired experience
with the design, construction and operation of HVDC lines. The main project
risks relate to: (a) the availability of supplier financing for the HVDC
terminals, on reasonable terms; (b) possible delays in the procurement
process; and (c) the pace at which tariff and other institutional reforms will
be implemented. These risks will be minimized hy: (a) assisting HSEB in
packaging and preparing the tender documents for the line in such a way as to
obtain the most attractive financing offers; (b) agreeing on a model bid
document, a detailed implementation schedule and the associated procurement
plan; (c) having the first tariff adjustment, involving major improvements in
the structure of tariffs as well as a significant increase in their level,
implemented before Board presentation; (d) establishing realistic targets for
HSEB''s financial performance and the implementation of further tariff
adjustments, demand management measures and institutional reforms; and (e)
providing technical assistance support to MSEB and GOM to help implement these
measures. Furthermore, HSEB will be assisted by competent consultants. Using
both the World Bank environmental guidelines and those of GOI, the project
including Chandrapur unit 7 can be classified as being of low hazard.
Project Monitoring and Supervision
3.25        Under the two ongoing Bank-financed projects, MSEB prepares
quarterly reports covering the work of consultants, procurement, physical
progress, costs, disbursements, and administrative aspects of the projects.
These reports need to be improved to cover more extensively progress on the



_ 24 -
managerial improvements underway in MSEB, include results of environmental
monitoring and present key quantitative measures of project performance (para.
2.04). The detailed content of the progress reports for the proposed project
was agreed during loan negotiations. The reports will be sent to the Bank
within two weeks of the conclusion of the reporting period. MSEB will also
furnish annual financial and audit reports (para. 4.12). Project supervision
plan is detailed in Annex 3.12. Agreement was reached at negotiations for a
mid-term review to be carried out jointly by GOM, MSEB and the Bank, during
the third year of the project (from the approval of the loan), to assess
overall progress in the physical execution of the project and MSEB's new
efficiency-oriented investment plan, and the implementation of the programs
for electricity demand management, tariff reform and private sector power
development in Maharashtra (para. 6.02 (e)).
IV. FINANCE
Introduction
4.01        MSEB's investment program for the Eighth Plan period and beyond
has been reduced from the original plan formulated on the basis of system
expansion requirements. The new efficiency-oriented plan (paras. 2.07-2.10)
still represents a substantial increase in capital expenditures over the past.
Primary reliance on traditional sources of funding (Plan allocations from
GOI/GOM) is no longer a sustainable option due to prevailing public resource
constraints. Improvements in MSEB's financial performance will thus be
crucial to enable MSEB to finance a significant share of its investments out
of its o.wn resources as well as to attract new financiers. It will also
reduce the uncertainty regarding the long-term financing strategy for its
expansion and facilitate the efficient implementation of its investment
program.
Past Performance and Present Financial Situation
4.02        The main aspects of MSEB's financial performance between FY88 and
FY92 are shown in Table 4.1 below. Annexes 4.1 to 4.3 present MSEB's past
income statements, balance sheets, and sources and applications of funds.



- 25 -
Table 4.1: MSED's Past Financial Performance (FY88 - FY92)
(Re. million)
Flcl Year *ndina                        FY8s     FY89     FY90      FY91       FY92
arc aB1I                               audited  audited  audited   audited   estimated
Saee ((OWh)                             28,688   24,981   26,973    27,968    29,287
Average revenue (Re./kWh)                 0.72    0.78      0.88       1.04       1.09
Operating incom                          2,964   8,087    4,288       5,600      6,898
Net income                                 781      896      89       1,001      1,458
Internal sourcee                         4,592   5,028    6,840       7,968      9,687
Borrowings                               6,890  10,706    9,680    18,101        9,190
Tot l Sources                          10,982  16,728   15,970    21,059    18,827
Capital expenditures                     7,149   8,680   10,617    12,227        9,972
Working capital Increase (decrease)        182   2,614       880      1,488        609
Debt Service                             8,652   4,538    6,078       7,864      8,246
Total applications                     10,982  15,728    16,970    21,069    18,827
Current asses                           11,668   18,901   18,877    19,290    21,854
Less current liabilitie.                 9,729  11,894   15,229    15,798    17,972
1,939    2,508    1,649     8,497      8,882
Net Fixed Asset,                        45,226  52,671   61,687      72,152    79,897
Total sse"t                           47,166   55,079   68,286    75,060      88,279
Debt                                    48,898  50,211    66,865    66,9s4      72,617
Equity                                   8,767   4,868    6,680       8,696    10,682
Total debt and equity                 47,166  55,079   63,288    75,650    88,279
Ratios:
Rate of return (00!)                      2.9X    1.4X      8.OX       8.0%X      6 s
Rate of return (beloro Interest)          9.6x    9.ox    lO.8X        MIX 1.1n.
NICO as X of capital expenditures         0.6X  -21.41    12.8X       -8.4X       8.1x
Debt service coverage                     1.14      1.1      1.2        1.1        1.2
Current ratio                              1.2    1.2        1.1       1.2        1.2
Debt os X of Debt + Equity               92/08   91/09    89/11       88/12      87/18
4.03         The last four years have seen moderate success in MSEB's attempt
at strengthening its long-term financial position. Despite an average
increase in sales revenue of 162 p.a. between FY88 and FY92, MSEB has not been
able to generate sufficient internal resources to help finance its investment
program. This has been the result of a number of factors, some of which are
beyond MSEB's control. As is the case for most SEBs in India, it has been the
practice for the state government to provide funds in the form of long-term
loans, .but not as equity contributions. This translates in a weak capital
structure for MSEB, with equity representing a very small proportion of total
capitalization. Although it has slightly increased over the last four years,
MSEB's debt:equity ratio stood at 87:13 at the end of FY92. A major
consequence has been a heavy debt service burden for MSEB, exacerbated by the
increasing cost of borrowing. Although MSEB's debt still includes loans
provided at concessional terms (6-92 for loans from GOM before FY92), new
loans are now contracted at rates ranging from 11.752 for loans from the state
government to 16.752 for PFC and 202 for commercial banks. While debt service
represented one third of total uses of funds in 1987/88 it accounted for
nearly 44? in 1991/92 and has constrained HSEB's ability to contribute to
capital investments out of its own funds, albeit in varying degrees depending
on the size of its annual capital outlays. MSEB has been generally able to



- 26 -
comply with the debt service coverage covenant agreed under Loan 3096-IN,
namely minimum 1.0 for FY90 and 1.2 thereafter.
4.04        Sales revenues have not fully kept up with the rapid increase in
operating expenses (17X p.a. over the period), due to a large extent to
growing system losses (para. 2.03) and the rapidly increasing cost of
purchased power (+22Z p.a.). Combined with rising interest charges on its
long-term debt, this has resulted in insufficient net earnings (before
government subsidies) to enable MSEB to achieve the 31 rate of return
stipulated by the Act. Subsidies have been paid by GOM, as shown in Annex
4.1, including as much as Rs. 3,477 million in FY90 au.d Rs. 1,833 million in
FY89. Furthermore, under Loan 3096-IN, MSEB was committed to achieve, in
FY92, a return of 3.5Z after interest on net fixed assets at historical value;
to enable MSEB to comply with the financial covenant, GOM has agreed to pay an
additional subsidy of Rs. 1,700 million once MSEB's financial accounts for
1991/92 have been certified by the state auditor. It will bring the total
subsidy for FY92 to Rs. 3,695 million.
Billing and Collection
4.05        Present collection performance and procedures of MSEB are not
satisfactory. MSEB has contained the deteriorating trend observed in the mid-
19808, but has not yet been able to reverse the situation in any significant
manner. Total customer receivables (including disputed amounts and amounts
billed but not yet due) represented 3.3 months of sales at the end of FY92.
The analysis by consumer category indicates that receivables from agricultural
consumers and SEBs in the neighboring states (Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh,
Karnataka, and Goa) are extremely high at more than a year of electricity
sales. Receivables from other consumer categories, which account for about
701 of revenues, amounted to about 2 months of sales. MSEB is actively
pursuing with individual states the settling of their arrears and, as recently
as February 1992, concluded an agreement with the Gujarat Electricity Board
(GEB) for the phased recovery of its arrears. As a major component of its
Operational and Financial Action Plan (para. 2.04), MSEB is taking steps to
improve billing and reduce its collection period to no more than 2 months
within two years. As a priority item under the ongoing data processing plan
(Loan 3096-IN), MSEB has hired consultants to prepare an energy billing
program which can be utilized on personal computers, to decentralize the
billing system. In addition, the Board is approaching various
regional/cooperative banks for collection of bills, providing cash register
machines for all collection centers, and increasing cash collection working
hours. Agreement was reached at negotiations that total consumer receivables
excluding disputed amounts, but including consumption billed but not yet
payable, will be reduced to less than 2.5 months from FY93 onwards, as agreed
under the ongoing Maharashtra Power Project (para. 6.02 (f)).
4.06        In parallel with its efforts towards improved collection, MSEB has
tried to bring its commercial payables down from the alarming level of nearly
4 months of consumption it had reached in FY88. While the target of 2 months
set for FY92 was not reached, payables have been reduced and were estimated at
about 3 months at the end of March 1992. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that MSEB will reduce commercial payables to two months from FY93
onwards, as agreed under the ongoing Maharashtra Power Project (para. 6.02
(f)).



- 27 -
Future Financial Performance
4.07        HSEB's sales are projected to increase at an annual rate of growth
of about 4.8Z, in line with increases in available supply. MSEB faces serious
financing issues in 'crying to meet the projected demand for electricity in
Maharashtra, while reducing its dependence on public financial resources.
Capital investment necessary to satisfy future demand will be much larger than
in the past, and while some of the burden will be assumed by the private
sector, MSEB will still be required to more than double its annual capital
expenditures daring the Eighth Plan (FY93-97). HSEB's resource mobilization
strategy will aim at balancing the financing burden of its expansion between:
(a) consumers, through improved cost recovery and regular tariff adjustments;
(b) MSEB, through increased productivity and efficiency; and (c) GOM, through
government funding, albeit to a relatively lesser extent than in the past.
Taole 4.2 below summarizes MSEB's expected financial performance for the
period FY93-2000, including the Eighth Plan period. Projected income
statements, balance sheets, and sources and applications of funds are given in
Annexes 4.1 to 4.3; the main underlying assumptions are detailed in Annex
4.41
4.08        HSEB has assigned two of its originally proposed three new power
generation projects to the private sector in its new efficiency-oriented
investment strategy. Power purchases are accordingly projected to increase
rapidly to account for about 27Z of total energy available for sale in FY2000,
compared to 22Z in FY92. Given their importance as one of MSEB's major and
fastest growing operating expenses, and to enable the Board to automatically
recover any increase in purchased power rates, a power purchase adjustment
clause, similar to the existing fuel adjustment clause, will be introduced as
part of the upcoming tariff adjustment (para. 2.06).
1 DPtalled supporting tables tor future capital tnvesteent, *inoncing plan and related debt
schedulc and working capital schedule have been included In the Project File.



- 28 -
Tablo 4.2: MSES'S Future Financial Performance (FY98 - FY20020
(Ks. ml  I on)
Fiscal Yer ending
March 81                     FY98     FY94      FY96     FY96      FY97     FY98      FY99    FY2000
------------------         ------------------------------- Forecat -----------------------------------
Sales (GWh)                 82,060   84,645   85,485   86,870   87,047   40,058   42,420   42,621
Average revenue (Re./kWh)     1.81      1.44     1.60     1.69      1.79     1.85      1.99     2.09
Operating Income             8,464   10,648   18,117   14,168   14,998   15,942   17,912   18,920
Net Income                   2,860    8,866    6,476    6,596    6,708    4,908    5,264    6,794
Internal sources            12,899   15,210   17,880   18,969   20,277   22,476   25,825   26,110
Borrowings                   9,896   120848   16,869   16,247   18,570   18,814   18,987   16,690
Total sources             22,295   27,668   84,189   86,206   88,847   86,288   89,818   42,700
Capital expenditures        18,865   16,660   21,142   21,908   18,142   18,648   19,875   22,151
Working capital change      (1,191)    1,071      998       850    1,082    1,878    1,296        648
Debt service                 9,621   10,928   12,049   12,947   14,622   16,768   19,142   20,001
Total applications        22,295   27,668   84,189   85,206   88,847   86,288   89,818   42,700
Current assets              20,704   28,741   26,820   28,021   80,508   84,800   87,895   89,678
Less current liabilities    18.926   21.891   28 078   26.859   26.168   29.805   82 481    88.616
1,779    2,850    U,IT1    2,e62    4,835    4,494    5,414    5,962
Net Fixod Assets            91,071  108,458  121,042  188,987  152,748  166,176  179,609  196,216
Total assets              92,850  105,80A  124,288  141,649  167,079  170,671  184,928  201,178
Debt                        78,078   85,980   97,826  108,762  117,695  124,989  182,086  141,781
Equity                      14,777   19,828   26,459   82,887   89,488   45,732   52,867   59,897
Total Debt A Equity       92,850  106,803  124,288  141,649  157,079  170,671  184,928  201,178
Ratios:
Rate of return (00!)          4.8X      6.OX     8.1%      7.7X     7.0X      6.7X     4.5X     4.8X
Rate of return (before nt.)   12.4X    18.9%    15.8X    16.2X    15.1X    12.2X    18.2%    18.4X
NICO as X of capital exp.    8O.8X    20.0X    25.0%    26.0X    25.0X    26.0X    28.4X    25.0X
Debt service coverage         1.8       1.4      1.6       1.6      1.4       1.4      1.8       1.8
Current ratio                 1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1      1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2
Debt as X of Debt + Equity    94/16    81/19    79/21    77/28    75/26    78/27    71/29    70/30
4.09          The Board's financial strategy focdsses on the need to self-
finance a greater proportion of future investments and avoid any build-up of
unmanageable long-term debt and debt servicing, to ensure that sufficient
resources are mobilized to finance the investment program in view of
increasing public resource constraints and to strengthen MSEB's capital
structure. Because the principle of revaluation of assets has not yet been
accepted by GOI, the rate of return targets set in the Act and strengthened
under existing financial covenants agreed with the Bank, do not fully capture
the financial requirements of a large capital investment program such as the
one envisaged by MSEB. A more realistic and practical approach was agreed
whereby MSEB would be required to progressively generate a minimum level of
internal resources that would cover not only its projected debt service but
also an increasing proportion of its planned capital expenditures. It was
agreed during negotiations that all necessary measures, including tariff
adjustments, will be taken so that MSEB can generate funds from internal
sources (excluding GOM subsidies) equivalent to not less than 2O in FY93 and
FY94, and 25Z from FY95 onwards, of the annual average of its capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for the previous, current
and following fiscal years. Because of unavoidable fluctuations in MSEB's
investment program, it was further agreed that MSEB would maintain at all



- 29 -
times a financial after-interest rate of return (GOI definition) of not less
than 4.5Z of net fixed assets in operation from FY93 onwards (para. 6.02 (g)).
In addition, to ensure that necessary measures are taken on a timely basis,
agreement was reached that annual revisions to the five-year revolving capital
investment and associated financing plan will be furnished to the Bank, by
December 31 of each year (para. 6.02 (h)), as agreed under the ongoing
Maharashtra Power Project. It has been projected that annual tariff increases
of about 102 (32 in real terms), in addition to adjustments needed to recover
real increases in fuel and power purchase costs, would be required during the
Eighth Plan period to meet these targets. This corresponds to an overall
increase in HSEB's average revenue per kWh sold of about 642 over the five-
year period, of which about one third has already been provided by the 20Z
increase under the May 1992 adjustment.
4.10         The impact of the proposed strategy on the Board's investment
financing plan for the period is presented in Table 4.3. GOM and MSEB
respectivley will provide about 302 and 252 of total financing requirements
while most of the balance will be covered increasingly by PFC (142) and other
sources (bonds, commercial bank loans and export credits). Despite the fact
that 752 of the financing requirements will be covered by new borrowings,
HSEB's increased profitability will ensure an adequate debt service coverage
of about 1.4 over the period. The projected financing strategy will also lead
to a strengthening of MSEB's capital structure with the debt:equity ratio
decreasing from 87:13 in FY92 to 70:30 in FY2000.
Table 4.8: Investment Financing Plan FY08 - FY2000
(Ru. mil Ion)
FY98 - FY2000          Eiahth Plan (FY93-97)
R?. Million     _           Re. Millon    X
Proposed project                         81,481       20.9            29,804    82.8
Other Capital Expenditures
(including IDC)                       119.330       79.1            81,813    87.7
Total Capital Expenditures              160,791      100.0            90,617   100.0
Sources of Finance
Internal Sourc                          169,685                       86,176
Less: Chango In working Capital           6,031                        2,811
Debt Service                       116.075                      60.188
Not Internal cash generation             88,479       25.5            22,696    25.0
Borrowinas:
IlRo                                   10,88B        7.2            10,014    11.0
GOM                                     47,280      81.8            28,016    28.7
PFC                                     21,880      14.4            11,600    12.8
Export Credit                           4,058        2.7             4,068     4.5
Others                                  28.488      16.9            18.287    17.9
Total Borrowings                       112,811      74.6            67,920    75.0
Total Sources                          160,791     100.0            90,617   100.0
Accounting and Auditing
4.11         Financial operations in HSEB are regulated by the Act, amended in
1978 and 1985 to reorganize finances of SEBs along commercial lines. HSEB



- 30 -
successfully introduced the new commercial accounting system in 1985.  With
the exception of the Internal Audit function (para. 2.05), the organization of
MSEB's financial complex at its head office is satisfactory. The Accounting
Department has field offices in every zone and division, under the
administrative authority of the local Chief Engineer, but with permanent
functional relations with the Directorates of Finance and Management Accounts.
4.12        The audit of MSEB's accounts is carried out annually by the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India through his local representative, the
Auditor General of Maharashtra. Accounting procedures in MSEB have been found
satisfactory in general by the Auditor. According to the Act, the accounts
and the Auditor's report must be submitted to the state government within six
months of the close of the year. So far, MSEB has submitted its financial
statements to the Auditor within the 6-month limit, but increasing delays have
been incurred in the finalization of the Auditor's report within the 9-month
period stipulated under Loan 3096-IN. MSEB is taking steps to close its
accounts more rapidly so that I,hey can be submitted to the Auditor General's
office early enough for the Auditor to submit his report on time. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that MSEB will furnish to the Bank, by no later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, its audited accounts,
including the special account and a separate opinion on withdrawals made on
the basis of statement of expenditures, together with the Auditor's
certificate and report (para. 6.02 (i)).
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.01        The economic analysis focuses on the Western Region power system
and its least-cost investment program. The investment components of the
proposed project, Chandrapur unit 7, the HVDC link, and the accelerated
distribution reinforcement program (ADRP), form an integral part of the
program. This program analysis is complemented by a project-specific analysis
to demonstrate that the Chandrapur 7/HVDC line project is an economic
component of the regional investment program. The ADRP was specifically
designed to help accelerate MSEB's efforts to reinforce its subtransmission
and distribution system and reduce its system losses towards economically
efficient levels.
Electricity Demand in The Western Region
5.02        Past Consumption.  The maximum load met in the Western Region
increased from 5,811 MW in FY82 to 11,542 MW in FY91, an average rate of
growth of 8Z per annum. The amount of energy consumed increased at an average
rate of 102 per annum during the same period. CEA estimates that in 1990/91
about 102 of demand and 6% of energy remained unserved (Annex 5.1).
Consumption growth has been strongest in the agricultural sector (16? per
annum) followed closely by domestic consumption (132 per annum). The share of
industry in electricity consumption has declined from over 60? in FY82 down to
49? in FY91, and the substantial increase in the share of agriculture from 13Z
to 22? (Annex 5.2).
5.03        Future Demand.  Through FY2000, CEA expects total energy and
ma-imum demand will increase on average at 7Z and 8Z p.a. respectively.



- 31 -
Growth in demand will be led by domestic consumers (11 per annum) while
consumption by agriculture will slow down to about 7Z per annum. Industrial
demand will grow at about 72 per annum. Even under optimistic assumptions of
capacity addition through the Eighth and Ninth Plans, there will continue to
be peaking and energy shortages. In FY95 it is expected that peaking deficits
will be as high as 172 of demand and even the energy shortage will be as high
as 9Z of requirement.
Least-Cost Analysis
5.04        Chandrapur Unit 7.  CEA, using the optimization model EGEAS, has
prepared a least-cost system expansion plan for the Western Region. Chandrapur
7, final expansion of Rn existing power station, is an integral part of this
least-cost plan. A further analysis (Annex 5.3) incorporating the cost of
power transmission shows that the economic cost of generation from Chandrapur
7 delivered into the load center, the Bombay metropolitan area, at Rs.
0.90/kWh is lower than the cost of its base-load alternatives, generation from
a new coal-fired load center station (Rs. 1.17/kWh) or a combined-cycle gas
station (Rs. 1.10/kWh).
5.05        HVDC Line.  The current transmission network for evacuation of
power from Chandrapur consists of six 400-kV lines, which is barely enough for
the evacuation of current available generation. MSEB expects that by the time
Chandrapur 7 is commissioned, the additional evacuation requirements from the
eastern to the western part of the state would be for about 1,500 MW of
transmission capacity. Three options (400 kV, 800 kV and HVDC) were
considered from which the HVDC link was selected. Transmission at 400 kV
would have required the construction of an additional six circuits of 400 kV,
which would have involved problems with forest clearances and land acquisition
and was not considered to be feasible to implement. The +/- 500-ky HVDC line
and double-circuit 800-kV AC lines;B would require much less right-of-way
clearances than the 400-kV option and would therefore be implementable within
the environmental constraints. A comparative analysis of the two options,
presented in Annex 5.4, demonstrates that the proposed HVDC link is the least-
cost option with a present value of total costs of Rs. 13,119 million as
against Rs. 18,699 for the 800-kV option. Given the geography of electricity
supply and demand in the Western Region, and the constraints on expansion of
the 400-kV network along this corridor, the HVDC line is the least-cost option
for the required evacuation of power, including that generated from
Chandrapur 7.
Economic Viability of the Western Region Program
5.06        The program analysis focusses on the FY92-2002 time-slice of the
Western Region development program. This period will include the construction
and first few years of operation of Chandrapur 7 and the Chandrapur-Padghe
HVDC line. Capital costs cover investments in generation, transmission and
distribution. Generation investments include only those cleared and
sanctioned projects in the Western Region investment program that will be
started and completed within the time-slice period. The analysis imputes a
i To met equIvalent systm re lIabilIty stndards, It would be necsessry to have a double
circuit.



- 32 -
rate of 6OX of generation investments to transmission and distribution. Fuel
costs are based on the LTIPS findings. Financial costs have been converted to
economic terms by excluding taxes and duties and by applying a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 to residual local costs.
5.07        Benefits that will be derived from the Western Region development
program will mostly be in the form of incremental electricity consumption.
Some benefits may be realized through reducing supply costs during off-peak
periods and through improving supply quality, but will be relatively small and
so have not been included in the analysis. A minimum measure of benefit can
be derived from incremental sales revenues, by using the average revenue per
kWh sold as a proxy for benefits. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the
program is 3? with benefits valued on this basis. Tariff revenues reflect
only a portion of the total benefits of electricity supply and nnly a small
portion of benefits when tariffs are relatively low. In line with the
increases in tariff levels in the past in the Western Region (Annexes 5.5 and
5.6), it can be assumed that the average tariff levels will continue to be
adjusted by 31 in real terms on average in the FY93-2002 period. This
assumption is reasonable in view of recent and forthcoming tariff adjustments:
Hadhya Pradesh increased its rates by 12X; TEC, BEST and BSES raised theirs
from 20-27Z in FY92; MSEB is about to raise its tariff rates by about 20X; and
increases of the same magnitude are expected also in Gujarat and Madhya
Pradesh during FY93 under their respective OFAPs. The ERR of the program
increases to 8Z with benefits valued on this basis14.
5.08        A more accurate valuation of economic benefits of electricity
supply was necessary to establish the viability of the program in view of the
3-8Z ERRs of the program when valuing benefits at tariffs. This was
undertaken in two parts: first the shares of replaced use of other energy
sources and energy consumption induced by electricity supply were established
for each category of consumer. Then the replaced use was valued at the
economic cost of the alternative source of energy, i.e., at the economic
resource cost saving (Annex 5.7). Induced consumption was valued by
estimating the consumer surplus, i.e., the difference between what the
consumers would be willing to pay for their electricity and what they actually
pay. Annex 5.8 shows the financial costs of autogeneration and diesel and
electric pumping (masimum willingness to pay); Annex 5.9 details the
calculation of the total economic benefits for each consumer category. In the
base case, the average value of economic benefit is Rs. 1.94/kWh (Annex 5.10)
and the ERR is satisfactory at 15Z. Sensitivity analysis, detailed in Annex
5.9 and Annex 5.10, reconfirmed the economic viability and robustness of the
program.
Project Analysis
5.09        In order to assess whether Chandrapur 7, along with the associated
transmission and distribution investments, yields adequate economic returns,
14 Valuing the benefits of the Western Region program at tho current average tariff level In
Maharashtra yields an ERR of 6%. The ERR Incroases to 1OX when the Maharashtra average
tariff Is escalated by ax per annum to FY2002. The". results show the Impact on the ERR
of having higher tariffs In plco (which Is the caes In Mahareshtre compared to the other
states In the Western Region, as shown In Annex 6.6) and givo a better Indication of the
economic merit of the Investment program.



- 33 -
the project benefits assumed to accrue to the Bombay metropolitan area were
compared to the project costs, including all associated investments which
include the HVDC line. The capital and operating costs of the project
expressed in economic terms are summarized in Annexes 5.3 and 5.4. The
capital costs in the project analysis include a third of the capital cost of
the 1,500-MW HVDC Chandrapur-Padghe line (as only 500 MW will be used to
evacuate the power from this station), and another 25Z to be invested in
distribution. The economic costs of coal and oil used are based on LTIPS
estimates.
5.10        As in the program analysis, the minimum measure of benefits was
derived from the incremental sales revenues, valued at the prevailing tariff
level in the Bombay area where the power from Chandrapur 7 will be sold. The
ERR is satisfactory at 16Z even with this minimum measure of benefits. The
comprehensive valuation of benefits detailed in Annex 5.9 yields for the base
case an ERR as high as 20Z. Sensitivity analysis (Annex 5.11) reconfirms the
viability. The robustness of the project was tested and confirmed that the
project can absorb capital cost increases up to 352 and decreases in benefits
of 301 and still remain economic. The higher rate of return and greater
robustness of the project vis-&-vis the overall program for the region is
primarily due to the following: (a) Chandrapur 7 being the extension of an
existing pithead power station has a far lower cost than the average cost of
projects included in the investment program for the region as a whole; and (b)
in the urban area of Bombay, tariff rates are much higher than in the Western
region as a whole and heavily subsidized agricultural consumers do not burden
the analysis.
5.11        Project analysis of the ADRP was undertaken during its
preparation, as ADRP was specifically designed to help accelerate MSEB's
efforts to reinforce its subtransmission and distribution system and reduce
its system losses towards economically efficient levels. Measures to be taken
under ADRP (outlined in Annex 3.1) were designed so as to have a maximum
impact with limited resources, and thus areas with greater than average
potential for loss reduction were targeted in the program. Such areas are
those with currently higher than average losses and/or those with higher than
average projected load growth. The economic returns of the investments
included in ADRP exceed 121, usually by a considerable margin due to the
current relatively high loss levels in the areas selected for ADRP.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached during Negotiations
6.01        During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that it will
take all steps necessary to ensure adequate and timely supplies of suitable
coal for the proposed power plant at Chandrapur (para. 3.03).
6.02        During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOM and MSEB that:
(a)   GOM will discuss the findings and recommendations of the
commission established to review institutional arrangements in the



- 34 -
power sector in Haharashtra with the Bank no later than December
31, 1993 (para. 2.11);
(b)   GOH and MSEB will enter into an annual financial arrangement that
will include provisions for the issue of separate government
orders for the release of the funds onlent to HSEB to ensure
transparency of such onlending (para. 3.06);
(c)   MSEB will submit to the Bank, no later than March 1 of each year,
its annual work plan for the implementation of the accelerated
distribution reinforcement component (para. 3.09);
(d)   HSEB will implement various environmental mitigatory measures at
Chandrapur, including, inter alia, the implementation of a waste
water treatment and management scheme, the installation of a dust
suppression system, the retrofitting of the ash pond, and the
acquisition and installation of various monitoring equipment
(para. 3.18).
*e)   a mid-term review will be carried out jointly by GOH, MSEB and the
Bank, during the third year of the project, to assess overall
progress in the implementation of the project (para. 3.25);
(f)   HSEB's total consumer receivables excluding disputed amounts, but
including consumption billed but not yet payable, will be reduced
to less than 2.5 months, and HSEB's commercial accounts payables
will be reduced to 2.0 months, and will thereafter not exceed
those levels, both from FY93 onwards (paras. 4.05-4.06);
(g)   necessary measures, including tariff adjustments, will be taken so
that: (a) HSEB can generate funds from internal sources (excluding
GOH subsidies) equivalent to not less than 20? in FY93 and FY94,
and 25? from FY95 onwards, of the annual average of its capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for the
previous, current and following fiscal years; and (b) MSEB's
financial after-interest rate of return (GOI definition) will be
no less than 4.5? from FY93 onwards (para. 4.09);
(h)   annual revisions to HSEB's five-year revolving capital investment
and associated financing plan will be furnished to the Bank, by
December 31 of each year (para. 4.09); and
(i)   HSEB will furnish to the Bank, no later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year, its audited accounts, including the
special account and a separate opinion on withdrawals made on the
basis of statement of expenditures, together with the Auditor's
certificate and report (para. 4.12).
6.03        The following would be conditions of effectiveness for the loan:
(a)   satisfactory financial arrangements have been finalized for the
acquisition and installation of the HVDC terminals (para. 3.07);
and



- 35 -
(b)   arrangements have been made by GOM to transfer to its Forest
Department compensatory land for afforestation, and by MSEB to
deposit with the forest authorities (GOM) funds sufficient to
cover the cost of afforestation (para. 3.17).
Recommendation
6.04        On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$350 million equivalent to
India for 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



- 36 -
INDIA                                Annex 1.1
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT                    Page 1 of 2
Alt-India Electricity Demand and Supply
Actual a/                      Estimated b/                      Annual
Increase (%)
FY82        FY91      FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95          FY91-95
Installed Capacity    -MW    32347           66066    69805    76355    81755    86597            7.0
Peak Availability      - MW    20121          39069    41101    44306    48157    50841           6.8
Peak Load              - MW    20121          50184    54481    58920    63611    68435           8.1
Deficit                -MW         0          11115    13380    14614    15454    17594          12.2
Deficit (X of Peak Load)                       22.1     24.6      24.8     24.3     25.7
Energy Availability   - GWh  113827          258690   271270   288726   314870   337295           6.9
Energy Requirement c/ - GWh  113827          283111   307257   332343   358746   385951           8.1
Deficit d/             - GWh       0          24421    35987    43617    43876    48656          18.8
Deficit (X of Requirement)                      8.6     11.7      13.1     12.2      12.6
NOTES:
a/   Constrained by supply capacity.  No estimates available on the extent of suppressed demand.
b/ Power supply position is based on sanctioned schemes assuming additional capacity
during FY 91-95 of only 23307.7 Mw.
c/ An estimation of demand, based on consumptfon projections (including consumption
to be met by non-utilities) plus transmission and distribution losses. It is to be noted her
that with the substantial supply constraints it is not possible to accurately estimate full
umet demand.    This figure merely captures the lowest boundary of demand.
d/   The deficit here is underestimated in light of the inability to accurately estimate unmet
demand.
Source: Fourteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, March 1991



- 37 -
INDIA                                          Annex 1.1
,.....                                         .. .. .....
SECOND tAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT                            Page 2 of 2
................................
Att-India Energy Consumption by Main Consumer Category
. .. .. ............... ..  ...    ...    .........
Actual (%)            Estimated (X)
....  . . .  . ...         -- - -  - --  - - -
Consumer Category               FY82    FY90 a/           FY91      FY95
------------.. ..  ...... ............. ... .... ..  ------  .............. ..----...
1.   Domestic                    11.6       14.1            15.2       17.2
2.   Industry                    57.7       51.5            51.1       49.8
3.   Agriculture                  16.9      22.1            21.9       21.3
4.   Commercial                    5.8       6.3             5.7        5.6
5.   Traction                      2.8       2.2             2.3        2.2
6.   PubLic Lighting               0.9       0.8             0.8        0.8
7.   Public Water                 2.3        2.1             2.1        2.2
8.   Others                        2.0       0.9             0.9        0.9
.................          .......   .....
100.0     100.0            100.0     100.0
.....--   .......  ...----- 
a/   Provisional as per Fourteenth Survey estimates
Source: Annual Report on the Working of SEBs and EDs, Planning Commission (September 1990)
Fourteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, March 1991.



- 38 -
INDIA                                              ANNEX 1.2
.....                                               .........
ECOM NAHRAUSHTM  POMER PROJECT
Prvfous Lon and Credits to Indan Pr Sector Ca of April 30. 19M)
........................................................................
(Amunt in U#S millifn)
Approval    ClosIng       ANount
Borrower  IBR  Loas                                NIPer    Date          Date          (a)     Disbursed    Status
..... ........  ........ .................           ......  .......... .........   ............. .........   .................. ...........................
r IndiJ      First DVC - SBckro - Konar                            4/50        2/56        18.5        16.7    Complete
2  India      Second DVC * Nalthon - Pawchot             72        1/53        6/58         19.5       10.5    Complete
3  Tate       Trolbey Poer                               106       11/4        9/66         16.2       13.9   Complete
4 Tata        Second Treobay                            16"        s5/5        9/66         9.8          9.7    Compltae
3  India     Third DVC - Ourapur                        203        7/58        6/65        25.0        22.0    Complete
6  India      Koyne Power                               223        4/59        4/65         25.0        18.7   Complete
7  India     Power Transmisson                          416        6/65        12/70       70.0        50.0    Complete
8  Tata       Second Kothapudsm Power                    417       6/65        12/70        14.0        13.8    Complet
9  Tata       Third Trosbay Thermel Power               1549       4/78        12/84       105.0       105.0    Complete
10  India     Ramgundam  Thermtl Power                  1648        1/79        6/87        50.0        45.6    CcopLete
11  India     Ferakka Ther_ml Power                     1887        6/80        6/89        25.0         2.5    Complete
12  Irdfa     Sceond R_mgunden Thermal Powr             2076       12/81        3/92       280.0       274.1       (b)
13  India     Third Rural Electrifieation               2165        6/82        6/88       304.5       295.5   Complete
14  India     Upper Indraati Hydro                      2278        5/83       12/91         0.4         0.4    Complete
15  India     Central Power Tranemisi "on               2283        5/83        3/92       200.7       128.7       (b)
16  India      Indrire Serovar                          2416        5/84        6/92         17.4         6.7
17  India      Second Farakka Thermsl Power             242         6/84        12/92      278.8       219.1
18 Tata        Fourth Trabday Thermal                   2452        6/84        6/92        135.4       126.7
19  India     Chwndrapur Thermtl Power                  2546        5/85       12/92       280.0       185.2
20  India     Rlhnnd Power Transmisson                  2555        5/85        12/92      202.0        193.2
21  India      Kersta State Powr                        2582        6/85        9/92        176.0       42.6
22  India      Cobfinsd Cyctle                          2674        4/86        12/92      485.0       456.5
23  India      Karnetak Powr                            2827        6/87        12/95      260.0         62.6
24  India       ational Capital Power Supply            2846        6/87        6/95       425.0        245.3
25  India     Talcher Thermal Powr                      2845        6/87        3/96        375.0       87.1
26  India      Second Kernataka Power                    2938       5/88        12/96       220.0        31.7
27  India      Utter Pradmbh Power                       295        6/88        12/96       350.0       47.1
28  India      Nathpe Jhakri Power                      3024        3/89        12/97      485.0         36.7
29  India     Naharehatra Power                         3096        6/89        12/96      400.0         25.3       cc)
30  india      Northern Region Trwnmissfon              3237        6/90         9/98       485.0        29.1
31  Tate       Private Powr Utilities (TATA)             3239        6/90        6/95        98.0        13.3
32 BSES        Private Powr Utilitfes CBSES)            3344        6/91        12/95       200.0        32.6
33  Indfa      Power Utilfttes Efficiency Improveant    343          1/92       1297        265.0        14.0
Total                                                                                  6301.2      2861.9
IDA Credits
1  India     Fourth DVC - Durepur                        19        2/62        12/69       21.9        19.9   Complete
2  india      Second Koyn Power                           24        O/S2        9/70        21.1        21.1   Complete
3  India      Kothagxkud  Power                           37        5/63       12/6         24.1        24.1   Ceplete
4  Indla      Beas Equipment                              B9        6/6         6n4         26.6        26.3   Complete
5  Indfa      Second Power Transmission                  242        4/71        3m          75.0        72.9   Complete
6  India      Third Power Transms"ion                    377        3/73        9/78        85.0        85.0   Complete
7  Indfa      Rurat Etectrffieatfon                      572        7/75       12/80        57.0        57.0   Complete
8  Indla      Fourth Power Transmission                  604        1/76        6/83       150.0       149.9   Complete
9  India      Slngreutl Thermal Powr                     685        3n7         6/84       150.0       150.0   Complete
10  India      Korbe Thermal Power                        793       4/78        3/86        200.0       199.9   Complete
11  India     Raaegundmn Therml Power                    874         1/79       6/87        200.0       200.0   Complete
12  India      Second Rural Electrification              911         5/79        3/84       175.0       171.7   Complete
13  Indira    Second Singrauli Thermal Power             1027        5/80        3/89       300.0       m.8   Complete
14  India      Farrkko Therml Powr                       1053       6/80        12/88       225.0       225.0   Complete
15  tndis     Second Korbe Thermat Power                 1172       7/81        12/91       388.7       371.0       (d)
16  India     Upper Indravatf Hydro                      1356       5/03        12/92       170.0       170.5
17  india      Indira Sarovr                            SF020        5/84        6/92        13.0         0.6
18  Indei      Indira Sarovar                            1613        5/86        6/92        13.2         0.0
Total                                                                                  2295.6      2237.7
(a) Net of cancoetlatons
cb) Loans were closed on 03/31/92. In wacordance ulth the current prctife the lo an acount has been
left open unti 07 /31/92, to allow for the dleburnmnt oft ligible expenditures ade until 03/31/92
Cc) Cancellation of USS46 miLlion ie not yet roflected In the ebov  figures.
td) The credit was closed on 12/31/92. In accordnce with the current prretice the credit account has been
left open until 04/30/92. to allow for the disburemeunt of eligible expeditures mrde until 12/31/91



-  39  -                                      Annex  2.1
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
MSEB's Head Office Staff Set-up as of March 1992
|CHAIRMUAN
| TECHNICAL                     l                        r MEMBER AAOM)       I      ACCOUNTS
l   _   MEMBER  l                               |     SECRE  ARY                     MEMBER
Technical Directer        Technlical Director           Technical Director           Director of                   Directo, of
(Generation,              (Generatlon, Project)         (Distribution)               Personnei                     Bombay
& Maintenance)               Chief Engineer                Chief Engineer            Addb.                           tor ay
(Generaton)                   (Di5tflbution),           Addl. Director                Olncor of
Chief Engineer            Project Planning,             8ombay                     Es                           -mance
$hGenerabon)              Bombay                        Chief Engineer                                          D        of
Opastion &                Chief Engineer                                          Joint Sem ta                  Miraomeny
Maintenance               (Generation)                  Zone                    *Joincal)                       Acrenta
Monitodng   &                 Chief Engineer            8ombay
O,Chief Engineer                                        Aurangabad              - Joint secreteryL
ainen                     (Bori                         Naay  Zone                Bo-ad                       - Director of
Operation &               Chief Engineer                                          t    a Lw OinScery            Intea  Audit
- iJUw5l                Generatlo .-Chief Engneer                                                              Somb
ChiefEngneer                                           . Chief Engineer            Chief ubiy
Soenerba n                Che Enine                     iNazuk &ZubicReaun
maintenance            ( Enei'raton-2)               - Chief Engineer             Relaons Oflicefo
Koradi                    Koradi                        Nagpurszone               Bombay                         irector of
NaChief Engineer. (C4            v                                              - i_iaw OfisonVigilance &
*Chief ntainee             Chief Engineer              *Chief Engineer             La   fl5~Security.
g~~,eration)  ~~(Generation                      Pune Zone                  Bomibay                      B3ombay
- Chiet En ion ee r       Constructon),
Maintenance.              Koradi                        CeEngineer                M
Chandrapur             S________                         handup                   Sorrbay
- Chief Enginr                  Op(Urban)
,   Chief    Engineer                                                             -  C hief  PubDldty
(Hydro)                                                 Chief Engineer            & Public Relaons
Bibay nOfficer, Bombay
'Ibohnical Director              (Urb~an)
-Chief Engineer         (Extra Ml h                      Che  n*                   Controller of
(Trestng.              lbnsio roject)                   Phinf _
Instriumentation                                        Pue(Uroan)                Vehicles. Pune
a  i            ir        Chief Engineer                                            ehisnp
Naggur             (~~~~~~4%KVODeh
- Chief Engineer                                              t on ton).r
(Training,.               Nagpur
NawukCheEnier*Ou
Chief Engineer        Chief Egineer
. sir Depty                 Kaa                            (Stores
Director                  usrcon).                      (Sores).
Vgi 'ance                 Puns                            oma
An-e Advwl e&
Chef Fre                  Chief EngineerCiefngne
Officer).                 (Load Dspaih).                Store    nee
Bombay      Kaiwa                        ~~~~~~~Management
Bombay
w~wst2fl



INDIA
SECOND NAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
A Comparison of the Performnce of NSEB and other SEBs
T&D     Emptoyees   Employees         Average    Debt Service  Operating   Average Cost
Losses    per         per               Tariff     ratio          ratio       0 & 8
SEB                  X         GWh Sold    1000 constmers  Paise/KWh                              Paise/Kwh
1990/91    1988/89     1988/89           1990/91    1990/91       1990/91      1990/91
~~~~~~~~~ ....................... ....... ...........    --------   .......... ........  .........   ------------... ........... .................... ...
1.  Andhra Pradesh                 19.00           4.70           11.00     70.60           1.07        84.90           3.96
2.  Assam                          21.20          17.50           56.30     94.45          -0.08       133.20          13.68
3.   Bihar                         21.00           8.40           33.80     95.69           -0.28      124.10           8.78
4.   Gujarat                       19.30           3.00            9.40     82.39           N.A.       111.20           3.96
5.   Haryana                       21.00           7.00           18.40     61.60           -0.40      140.70           5.62
6.   HimachaL Pradesh              16.00          10.90           13.00     56.84           0.27        93.00           9.96
7.   Jammu  & Kashmir              45.00          12.00           26.70     40.15          -0.95       213.30           6.25                           0
8.   Karnataka Board               19.60           5.80           10.00     70.07           0.22        98.90           3.40
9.   Kerala                        20.00           6.80           10.10     56.25           0.56        90.40           3.48
10.  Nadhya Pradesh                18.50           7.30           18.50     84.84           0.81       86.70            5.74
11.  NAHARASHTRA 1/                15.50           3.70           12.80    109.00           0.92       84.17            6.16
12.  Neghalya                      11.50          10.80           58.60     50.60           0.43       111.10          11.92
13.  Orissa                        23.00           8.00           40.10     71.59           0.85        77.20           4.88
14.  Punjab                        18.00           6.50           19.40     49.90          -0.17       137.40           2.74
15.  Rajasthan                     21.80           8.40           23.90     82.30           0.08       112.50           4.65
16.  Tamil Nadu                    18.40           6.80           13.10     71.66          -0.65       132.60           2.80
17.  Uttar Pradesh                 25.00           6.30           29.00     77.33           0.10       107.50           7.00
18. West BengaL                    20.00           8.50          33.00      99.81          -0.11       96.00            6.21
All Boards. average                19.70           5.80           17.10     76.08           0.18       106.80           5.19
...........................................................................
1/       Figures for Naharashtra represent actuaL performance whereas those for the other SEBs are estimates.
Source: Anmual report on the Working of State Electricity Boards and Electricity Departments
Planning Commission, 001, September 1990



- 41 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
MSEB's Electricity Tariff
1.          As part of its May 1992 revision, MSEB introduced a number of
structural improvements in its electricitv tariffs, including the following:
(a)   residential consumers: MSEB eliminated, for consumers with a
consumption higher than 50 kWh/month, the subsidy provided under
the heavily subsidized 30 kWh/month life-line rate, and brought
the rate for large consumers much closer to their estimated long-
run marginal cost of supply (LRMC). The new tariff structure is
as follows:
first 30 units per month (life-line rate) - paise 60/unit (kWh)
31-50 units per month                      - paise 100/unit
for consumption beyond 50 units but        - paise 100 for all
less than 170 units                          units (no life-line)
for consumption beyond 170 units but       - paise 140 for a'1
less than 400 units                          units
for consumption exceeding 400 units        - paise 180 for all
units
The fuel cost adjustment (FCA) clause applies to consumers with a
monthly consumption exceeding 170 units.
(b)   commercial consumers: in line with the residential tariff reform,
MSEB increased the rates and introduced a third block for
consumption exceeding 500 units per month, to bring the rate for
large commercial consumers reasonably well in line with LRMC. The
new tariff structure is:
first 100 units per month                  - Rs. 1.55/unit
for consumption beyond 100 units but       - Rs. 2.20 for all units
less than 500 units per month
for consumption exceeding 500 units        - Rs. 2.50 for all units
FCA applies to monthly consumption exceeding 100 units.
(c)   industrial/low tension (LT) consumers: MSEB introduced a fixed
charge and raised the energy rates. The new structure is:
Monthly fixed charge                       - Rs. 10/hp
Energy charge depends on connected load:
up to 20 hp                              - Rs. 1.10/unit
20-67 hp                                 - Rs. 1.40/unit and
above 67 hp                              - Rs. 2.50/unit
Minimum monthly and annual charges apply; FCA applies from 67 hp.



- 42 -
Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 2
(d)   industrial/high tension (HT) consumers:  MSEB improved the
structure of its industrial tariffs by significantly increasing
the demand charges. The new tariff structures are as follows:
1. All HT consumers in the Bombay and Pune regions and consumers
with demand of 500 kVA or higher in specified other main urban and
industrial areas:
Demand charge for billing demand            - Rs. 90/kVA per month
Energy charge                               - Rs. 1.95-2.00 per unit
FCA and minimum monthly and annual charges apply.
2. Other consumers:
Demand charge for billing demand            - Rs. 75/kVA per month
Energy charge                               - Rs. 1.85-1.90 per unit
FCA and minimum monthly and annual charges apply.
3. Consumers with connected load less thar 250 kVA
Energy charge in category 1 areas           - Rs. 2.20/unit
Energy charge in all other areas            - Rs. 2.10/unit
FCA and minimum monthly and annual charges apply. HSEB intends to
discontinue this tariff by November 1992; thereafter one of the
above two categories will apply (depending on the location of the
consumer).
(e)   agricultural consumers:  No change in the current structure:
HT metered supply                           - paise 32/unit
HT unmetered supply                         - Rs. 200/HP/annum
LT metered supply                           - paise 32/unit
LT unmetered supply                         - Rs. 200/HP/annum
FCA is not applied. As a further concession and incentive to pay
the bills on time, reduced rates of paise 24/unit and Rs.
150/HP/annum apply if payments are made on or before the due
dates.
(g)   Fuel Cost Adjustment (FCA):  MSEB continues to apply the FCA
clause and from Hay 1992 uses it also for the automatic recovery
of increases in power purchase rates.



43 -                        Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Project Description - Design Features
A. Chandrapur Unit 7
General
1.    The proposed Second Maharashtra Power Project comprises, inter alia,
expansion of an existing, pit head coal-fired power station at Chandrapur from
its present installed capacity of 1,840-MW to its ultimate potential of 2,340-
MW by installing an additional 500-MW generating unit. The scheduled date for
commercial operation of the proposed unit is June 1997.
Fuel
2.    The existing power plant uses about 3.0 million tonnes of coal per year
at 65Z capacity factor for the first four units of 210 MW each. Chandrapur
Units 5 and 6 of 500 MW each, are being financed by the Bank under loan 2544-
IN, and are now undergoing comuissioning tests. The requirement of coal at
the power station will increase to about 6.2 million tonnes per year at the
same capacity factor as soon as these units go into commercial operation by
May and August of this year respectively. An additional quantity of 1.6
million tonnes of coal per year will be required for Unit 7, starting from
June 1997, when this unit would enter commercial operation. The minable coal
reserve in the Chanda-Wardha coal field area, in the immediate vicinity of the
power plant, is estimated at about 850 million tonnes. The average heating
value of the coal will be approximately 4,200 kcal/kg. Ash content of this
coal is in the range of 40-50Z, while the sulfur content averages 0.2Z only
(0.6Z for the worst coal). The coal is trpnsported by aerial ropeway, railway
rakes, and road transport. In addition, a merry-go-round unit train system is
being installed between the coal mine (Padanpur) and the power plant. For the
amounts of coal which would be transported by railway wagons, MSEB has planned
and coordinated with the Indian Railways to optimize the movement of railway
wagons and minimize the need for transport by trucks, and at the same time, to
ensure that the required quantity of coal reaches the power plant as needed.
Steam Parameters
3.    The steam parameters of the 500-MW turbine generator sets will be the
same as those for units 5 and 6, with throttle steam pressure of 170 kg/cm2
and final superheat and reheat temperatures of 5380 C. The condenser back
pressure will be 89 mm Hg absolute, based on a cooling water design inlet
temperature of 330 C.
Turbine Generator
4.    Unit 7 will have a nominal capacity of 500 MW.  Many units of this size
are in satisfactory service the world over. The turbine generator will have
one high-pressure cylinder, o-ne double-flow intermediate-pressure cylinder and
one double-flow low-pressure cylinder, six-stage feed water heating and



- 44 -
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 7
deaerating train, generator-cooling systems, excitation system and other
ancillary equipment. There will be two steam turbine driven boiler feed
pumps, each of 50? capacity.
5.    The design will include a turbine bypass system consisting of a high-
pressure turbine bypass and a low-pressure turbine bypass to facilitate
continued operation of the boiler and turbine after loss of export load,
without having to trip the boiler or the coal mills. This will allow the load
to be reestablished rapidly soon after system restoration. The turbine will
also be capable of variable pressure operation. This will prevent sagging of
the steam temperatures during low-load operation, so i:hat operating efficiency
can be maintained high and fast load variations can be possible without
exposing the turbine metal to undue thermal stresses. The generators will be
hydrogen-cooled, with water-cooled stator windings.
Steam Generator
6.    The steam generators will be of single reheat  drum type, rated to
produce 1,672 tonnes of steam pet. hour at 178 kg/cm; and 5410 C at the
superheater outlet. The reheat temperature will also be 5410 C. Eight
pressurized-type coal pulverizers will be provided to ensure design capability
of the boiler when burning the worst quality of coal. There will be two
trains of draft fans for the boiler, along with two separate air preheaters.
Light fuel oil will be used for start up. Fuel oil will also be used for
flame stabilization when burning excessively wet coal and/or at low loads.
Electrostatic precipitators, having a minimum of 98.5? collection efficiency,
will be installed to remove fly ash from the boiler flue gas.
Circulating Water System
7.     The condenser circulating water will remain a closed cooling water
system, using cooling towers, while the make-up water will be drawn from the
Erai Reservoir, about 12 km away, that was designed and constructed to meet
the cooling water needs of the Chandrapur power station for an ultimate plant
capacity of 2,340 MW. A separate cooling water pond has also been constructed
in the power station area, along with Units 5 and 6, to provide additional
storage. The pumping station at the cooling water pond will also supply water
to the water treatment and the demineralizer plants to treat the raw water to
acceptable quality for plant service as well as for use in the boiler.
Auxiliary pumps will supply cooling water for the various plant equipment
through designated heat exchangers. Each condenser will have a continuous
ball-type tube cleaning system.
Ash Handling
8.    Fly ash will be collected in various ash hoppers, which will be
evacuated by means of a hydrovac system, mixed with water to form slurry and
collected in the central ash slurry sump for pumping through pipe lines into
the ash disposal yard. Bottom ash from the boiler bottom hopper will be
transported by water jet pumps into a separate central sump for similar
disposal in the ash yard.



- 45 
Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 7
Instrumentation and Controls
9.    The unit will use a state-of-the-art, microprocessor-based, distributed
control system that will permit remote operation and monitoring from the
central control room and real-time interface with plant operating status
through monitors. The system will also facilitate retrieval of plant
operating data, as desired. Data loggers and sequence-of-events recorders
will automatically record plant performance at periodic intervals, and display
operating problems, as they occur, on a first-out basis.
Environmental Issues
10.   Annex 3.10 provides details of the environmental impacts as well as
mitigation and control measures, associated with the proposed project.
B. Chandrapur-Padahe UVDC Transmission Link
11.   The construction of a HVDC transmission link is proposed to enable the
Maharashtra power transmission network to transfer power from the eastern
Maharashtra to the western part of the state where the largest industrial
demand center is located around metropolitan Bombay. The proposed HVDC
transmission link will be a bipole link between Chandrapur and Padghe (near
Bombay) over a distance of 736 km. The proposed scheme covers the following
works:
i)    + 500-kV, 1,500-MW Chandrapur-Padghe HVDC bipoler line - 736 km;
ii)   two + 500-kV, 1,500-MW HVDC bipole terminals - one each at
Chandrapur and Padghe;
iii) Extension of 400-kV substation works, both at Chandrapur and
Padghe;
iv)   Ground electrodes and electrode lines at each terminal; and
v)    Optical Ground Wire (OPGW) and communication facility.
12.   Brief technical particulars of the proposed link are as follows:
(a)   Salient Features
i)    Voltage rating                 t  + 500 kV
ii)   Power rating                   s  1,500 MW
iii)  Number of poles                s       2
iv)   Length of Bipole HVDC line   s       736 km
v)    Locations of Terminals:        s  Chandrapur and Padghe
(b)   General Requirements
i)    Each HVDC converter station at Chandrapur and Padghe will
comprise one 12-pulse valve group per pole rated for a
nominal continuous rating of 750 MW each.



_ 46 -
Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 7
ii)   Power flow will be possible in both directions but the
equipment will be designed for rated power flow from
Chandrapur to Padghe only.
iii) The HVDC transmission will be designed and rated to operate
ins
Balanced bipolar mode in which the unbalance in
current between the two poles shall not exceed 10A.
- Monopolar mode with earth return utilizing the
electrode lines and ground electrodes of both
terminals, for short duration.
- Monopolar mode with metallic return utilizing the line
pole conductors of the blocked pole and with one
electrode isolated.
(c)   Transmission Line
Self-supporting steel towers i: horizontal formation will be used
for supporting both the poles. Based on conductor optimization
studies, four Bersimis (689.7 mm2) conductors with sub-conductor
spacing of 457 mm per pole will be used. Ruling span of 400 m
will be kept for overhead line. The pole conductors will be kept
13 meters apart. The line will have minimum ground clearance of
13.5 m. Anti-fog type high-creepage DC insulators with
sacrificial zinc sleeve will be provided for the line. For
electrode lines, two Bersimis conductors will be used.
(d)   Converter Transformers
Three single phase transformers with one primary and two secondary
windings will be used per pole. Out of two secondary windings,
one secondary winding will be connected in star and the other in
delta to achieve 30 degree phase shift for operation of 12-pulse
mode. The rating of the converter transformer and requirement of
taps will be determined by the supplier after studies for main
circuit calculations are completed by him. One single phase unit
will be provided as spare at each station.
(e)   Thyristor Valves
Thyristor valves will be suspended-type, indoor-mounted, water-
cooled and air-insulated. For transmission of firing pulses,
fibre optic cables will be used.
(f)   Filter and Shunt Capacitors
The AC harmonic filters, including any conventional linear shunt
connected capacitor and reactors required for the control of
reactive power interchange will be arranged in two or more banks,
as required, to meet active power interchange requirements and
harmonic performance limits. Rating and quantum of reactive



- 47 -
Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 7
compensation to be provided at the Chandrapur and Padghe terminals
will be dec_ded on the basis of reactive compensation studies to
be conducted by the supplier. The banks will be connected to the
400-kV AC busbars by suitably rated circuit breakers. The banks
will be made up of sub-banks and/or branches.
(g) DC Yard
Adequate controls and switchgear will be provided to enable bipole
operation of the DC link with monopolar mode as and when needed.
Further equipments like DC smoothing reactors, filters, power line
carrier (PLC) filters, voltage dividers, etc., will be provided as
per prevailing practice.
(h) AC Yard
The converter stations at Chandrapur and Padghe will be connected
to the existing 400-kV sub-stations through two feeders at each
terminal station. Separate buses will be installed for connection
of shunt capacitors and filters.
(i) Ground Electrode Station
Ground electrode stations at distance of 25 to 50 km from the
converter stations will be erected at each station. The size and
rating of ground electrode will be determined after detailed
calculations to be done by MSEB's consultants on the basis of
earth resistivity and Sol' data.
(j)   Telecommunications
For establishmer.t of the communications and other requirements
between Chandrapur and Padghe as well as with load despatch
centers at Ambazari and Kalwa, conventional PLC channels as well
as a fibre optic communication (OPGW cables) system will be
established.
C. Accelerated Distribution Reinforcement Program
HSEB's Approach to Distribution Loss Reduction
13.   The program stems from GOM's and MSEB's recognition that an increase in
the relative share and volume of investments to reinforce MSEB's distribution
with a view to reduce losses. GOM and MSEB have decided to address the issue
under two major programs: (a) urban distribution: projects covering the major
part of the 55 cities with a population of 50,000 or higher, have been
prepared; projects for the remaining cities are under preparation. In
addition to supply expansion, these projects also cover system reinforcement
and generally result in substantial loss reduction (samples show reduction
estimates from 15-20Z to below 102); (b) suburban and rural distribution:
master plans for each of the 32 districts in Maharasthra are under
preparation. However, due to severe financial constraints, planning targets
do not in most cases address loss reduction towards economic loss levels.
Upon the Bank's recommendation, selected district master plans have been



- 48 -
Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 7
revised by MSEB to also focus on loss reduction in a more significant way; a
demand management and planning component has been formulated to help design
additional efficiency improvement measures.
Accelerated Distribution Reinforcement Component
14. MSEB has revised selected district master plans (those with estimated
higher-than-average potential for loss reduction, in view of currently higher-
than-average loss levels and/or expected higher-than-average load growth) and
packaged the upgraded plans into an accelerated distribution reinforcement
program. The program will be limited to subtransmission and distribution
investments in the selected areas. Measures to be taken under this component
include: (i) reinforcement of 66-132kV transmission and 33-kV subtransmission;
(ii) additional 33-kV and 11-kV high-voltage distribution, and reduction in
low-voltage distribution; (iii) higher capacity lines, (I-) additional and/or
higher capacity distribution transformers; (v) capacitors; and (vi) metering.
MSEB's proposed 220- and 400-kV transmission lines in the project areas will
be financed out of MSEB's other sources. Also specifically excluded from Bank
financing under the program are MSEB's investments in rural electrification
and pumpset energization in these areas. This approach helps ensure that the
Bank loan will be focussed on distribution reinforcement rather than network
expansion.
Demand Management and Planning Component
15. In addition to the investment component outlined above, the program also
includes a technical assistance component for the preparation of additional
electricity demand management measures 1 and load research (on the basis of
the report prepared for the Bank and MSEB by Electricite de France and related
training. The foreign exchange requirements of this technical assistance will
be financed under the Bank loan.
16.   The preparation of future demand management measures and load research
would cover, among other things:
(a)    load research, on patterns and magnitude of daily (working and
non-working days) and monthly/seasonal demand variations of
various consumer categories. This will require data collection at
the load dispatch center as well as special metering programs and
consumer surveys;
1       4MSEB's current load management/loss reduction measures include:
(i) staggered holidays in the industrial sector (in place since
the 1970s); (ii) once-a-week rotating supply cuts to agriculture
(estimated to reduce peak demand by 200 MW); and (iii) new low-
voltage connections only for small consumers. New measures to be
introduced shortly include: (i) improvements in the tariff
structure for most consumer categories; and (ii) requirement for
new agricultural pumps to meet ISI efficiency targets as a
condition of network connection.



- 49 -
Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 7
(b)    special programs for the industrial sector, some of them in
cooperation with industrial sector associations, covering further
improvements in the time-or-day tariff, possibilities for
interruptible load tariffs and voluntary measures for load
management, projects for use of bagasse in sugar mills for power
generation for grid supply, and investigation of the technical and
financial possibilities of making use of industries' diesel sets
and gas turbines to help give them an incentive to use such
facilities during system peak to meet part of their own demand,
perhaps even supply to grid;
(c)    assess electricity conservation and demand management potential in
agricultural pumping (including pump rectification, water storage,
and possibly solar pumping), residential use (e.g., lighting and
water heating) and commercial sector (lighting, air-conditioning);
and examine the role MSEB could assume to help realize some of the
identified savings. MSEB intends to undertake a pilot program for
efficiency improvements in agricultural pumping, subject to
successful negotiations with suitable private sector partners for
its implementation; and
(d)    on the basis of the above work, examine scope and need for further
improvements in the structure of the electricity tariff.
17.   A small unit will be established within the Commercial section of MSEB
to undertake the above program and continue the work on a permanent basis.
Consultant support for training the staff and initiating the program would be
provided under the Bank loan. Metering and other equipment needed for the
program will be purchased under the Bank loan.



- 50 -
INDIA                            Annex 3.2
, ......                       ...........
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT            Page 1 of 4
. ............. ........ ................ ....
Project Cost Summary
,....................
Project Components                       Local   Foreign  Total              Local   Foreign  Total
... ... ............ ... ............ ... ....  ....... .  .......  -------.... ....... ...........  .......
-------Rs. million U.....          -------US# million-------
Chandrapur Unit 7 (500 MW)
~~~~~~~,............................... 
Preliminary Works                          10.2      0.0    10.2                0.4      0.0      0.4
Civil Works                              1083.8    56.1   1139.9               42.5      2.2     44.7
Boiler and Auxiliaries                    494.7  1976.3  2471.0                19.4    77.5      96.9
Electrostatic Precipitators               102.0   408.0   510.0                 4.0     16.0    20.0
Insulation                                 35.7    142.8   178.5                1.4      5.6      7.0
Turbine and Auxiliaries                   377.4   1547.9  1925.3               14.8    60.7    75.5
Condensate Polishing Unit                   2.6    10.2    12.8                 0.1      0.4      0.5
I & C and Data Acquisition System          38.3    155.6   193.8                1.5      6.1      7.6
Generator Control and Relay Panel           2.6      5.1      7.7               0.1      0.2      0.3
Circulating Water Pumps                    10.2    25.5    35.7                 0.4      1.0      1.4
Stack Elevator                              2.6      5.1      7.7               0.1      0.2      0.3
NV Switchgear                              23.0    56.1      79.1               0.9      2.2      3.1
Ash Handling Plant                         30.6    68.9    99.5                 1.2      2.7      3.9
Demineralizer Plant                        38.3    86.7   125.0                 1.5      3.4      4.9
Fire fighting System                       20.4    48.5    68.9                 0.8      1.9      2.7
Generator Transformpr                      30.6    68.9    99.5                 1.2      2.7      3.9
Other Elec. & Nech. Packages              255.0   594.2   849.2                10.0    23.3    33.3
Flue Gas Desulfurizatfon System           561.0   459.0   1020.0               22.0     18.0    40.0
Transport,Erection.Insurance,Testing      663.0   219.3   882.3                26.0      8.6     34.6
Consultancy and Training                   28.1     79.1    107.1               1.1      3.1      4.2
Engineerfng and Adninistration            591.6      0.0   591.6               23.2      0.0    23.2
Total Base Costs (1)                     4401.3  6012.9  10414.2              172.6   235.8   408.4
- Physical Contingencies                  176.1    240.5   416.6                6.9      9.4     16.3
- Price Contingencies                    1204.4  2273.0  3477.4                 7.5    30.1    37.6
Total Contingencies                      1380.5  2513.5  3894.0                14.4    39.5      53.9
.......    ....... ----... ... ., .,........      ..... _....._.,
Total Project Cost (1)                   5781.8  8526.4  14308.2              187.0    275.3    462.3
- Taxes and Duties (2)                    752.6      0.0   752.6               24.2      0.0    24.2
w ======_=================,._=======_=======_==_====.-.=====.==:.=
Chandrapur-Padhge HVDC Transmission Link
.......................... ...........................................
Terminals
Preliminary Investigations, surveys,
land acquisition, development,
computer studies, etc. for Terminals       40.1      0.0    40.1                1.6      0.0      1.6
DC Terminal, civil works + erection      1816.1   3372.7  5188.8               71.2    132.3    203.5
Communication eq. for Terminals            10.2    41.1      51.3               0.4      1.6      2.0
AC switchyard                              25.6      6.4    31.9                1.0      0.3      1.3
......                                      _ .......-------    .......
Total Base Costs for Terminals (1)       1892.0  3420.2  5312.2                74.2    134.2   208.4
Physfcal Contingencies                  132.0   239.4   371.4                 5.1      9.3     14.4
- Price Contingencies                     550.4   1355.0  1905.4                3.7     17.9     21.6
....... ....... .......            ....... ------- .......
Total Contingencies                       682.4   1594.4  2276.8                8.8     27.2     36.0
....... ....... -----             ....... .......  ........
Total Project Cost for Terminals (1)     2574.4   5014.6  7589.0               83.0    161.4    244.4
=====am =C-Dn c-----               ====a==  e=======  =common



- 51 -
INDIA                                Annex 3.2
.....                              ....... ......
SECOND RANARASHTRA POWER PROJECT                 Page 2 of 4
................ .........................._..
Project Cost Summary
....................
Project Components                            Local   Foreign   Total                Local   Foreign   Total
..................                           ....................... .......    ....... . ... .......    ........... ....... ....... ... .................. ...
-------Rs. million ......              -------USS million-------
HVDC Line
Preliminary Investigations, surveys,
land acquisition, development,
computer studies, etc. for the Line             15.1       0.0      15.1                0.6       0.0       0.6
Supply of towers                               409.5    102.4    511.9                  16.1      4.0      20.1
Supply of conductors                           586.4    146.6    733.0                 23.0       5.7      28.7
Supply of insulators                           183.7    734.9    918.6                  7.2      28.8      36.0
Supply of earthwire                              7.9       2.0       9.9                0.3       0.1       0.4
Supply of hardware                              32.7       8.2     40.9                  1.3      0.3       1.6
Supply of accessories for conductors
and earthwire                                   29.9      19.9      49.8                 1.2      0.8       2.0
Special tools                                   11.0      44.2      55.2                0.4        1.7      2.2
Electrodes and electrode line                   31.1       7.8      38.9                 1.2      0.3        1.5
Communication equipment for the line            31.3    125.0    156.3                   1.2      4.9       6.1
Foundations and erections of towers,
stringing of conductors and
earthwire, including supervision               169.8       8.9    178.8                 6.7       0.4       7.0
.- - -   -- - -    -------             .. .. ...  .. .....  -- - -
Total Base Costs for the Line C1)             1508.5   1199.8   2708.3                 59.2      47.0    106.2
- Physical Contingencies                       106.0      84.0    190.0                 4.2       3.4       7.6
- Price Contingencies                          438.9    475.4    914.3                  3.0       6.2       9.2
..-  -    -- - -   -------             ....... .... .......  -------.................
Total Contingencies                            544.9    559.4   1104.3                   7.2      9.6      16.8
_---  ........... .......         .........-------    ... .........
Total Project Cost for the Line (1)           2053.4   1759.2   3812.6                 66.4      56.6    123.0
u=zu      =u==   u===                  =:u===  u=-=GSI  ======
Total for the HVDC Transmission Link
..... ........ .. ......_  .....
Total Base Costs for the Terminals (1)    1892.0   3420.2   5312.2                     74.2    134.2    208.4
Total Base Costs lor the Line (1)             1508.5   1199.8   2708.2                 59.2      47.0    106.2
------- ~~~~~~~~~~.......  .......  ------.  ... ....  .......
Total Base Costs (1)                          3400.5   4620.0   8020.5                133.4    181.2    314.6
- Physical Contingencies                       238.0    323.4    561.4                  9.3      12.7      22.0
- Price Contingencies                          989.3   1830.4   2819.7                  6.7      24.1      30.8
............... ............  ........... -------  ........  .......  .......... ..
Total Contingencies                           1227.3   2153.8   3381.1                  16.0     36.8      52.8
.. ...... ..............  ...........  ..... .... ...  ....... ...........  .......
Total Project Cost (1)                        4627.8   6773.8  11401.6                149.4    218.0    367.4
_rm.  Mann=            ai              3     =        in
* Taxes and Duties (2)                        1315.0       0.0   1315.0                42.3       0.0      42.3
UUUU33UUUUUUUUIUUUUUZU3UUU3UUUU 3UUUU UU3S3UUU UUUZ



- 52 -
INDIA                              Annex 3.2
... ......                       ...........
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT              Page 3 of 4
...........................
Project Cost Suuiary
Project Components                         Local   Foreign   Total               Local   Forefgn   Total
................................          . ...... .........  .......           -------.... .......  ........... 
-------Rs. million .......           .......-US$ million--
Distributfon Reinforcement Program
...................... ....... .............. .
Total Base Costs (t)                       1654.8   1036.0   2690.8                64.9     40.6    105.5
- Physical Contingencies                    167.8    105.1    272.9                6.6       4.1     10.7
- Price Contingencies                       470.6    527.1    997.7                3.5       5.3      8.8
... ..... ....  ....... .............  ....... ...........  -------
Total Contingencies                         638.4    632.2   1270.6                10.1      9.4     19.5
Total ProJect Cost (1)                     2293.2   1668.2  3961.4                75.0      50.0    125.0
==nu;u m    c.amull mmu              a    -zzum  =un = m=
- Taxes and Duties (2)                      155.0      0.0    155.0                5.0       0.0      5.0
Consultants and Related Monitoring Eq.       17.9     51.0      68.9                0.7      2.0      2.7
uw--v==3--z=___zt-tSS:=-  115-3_cuIunucaus
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATES
.................. .......................
Chandrapur Unit 7 (500 MU)                 401.3   6012.9  10414.2                172.6    235.8    408.4
Chandrapur-Padhge HVDC Transmission Link  3400.5  4620.0   8020.5                133.4    181.2    314.6
Distribution Reinforcement Program         1654.8   1036.0   2690.8               64.9      40.6    105.5
Consultants and Related Monitoring Eq.       17.9     51.0      68.9               0.7       2.0      2.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ....---- .......  .......  .......  .....
Total Base Costs (1)                       9474.5  11719.9  21194.4              371.6    459.6    831.2
- Physical Contingencies                    581.9    669.0   1250.9               22.8      26.2     49.0
- Price ContIngencies                      2664.3  4630.5   7294.8                17.7      59.5     77.2
...... .  ... ....  ..... ..         .......  ----......
Total Contingencies                        3246.2  5299.5   8545.7                40.5      85.7    126.2
Total ProJect Cost (1)                    12720.7  17019.4  29740.1              412.1    545.3    957.4
.umum=   *ammmmu  aMaU               =22mmu  inmmmam   m=u
- Taxes and Duties (2)                     2222.6      0.0   2222.6               71.5       0.0     71.5
mmmmummmmugmminminminfuI:nmStInmannuuaminim:amfCin=z                               _ _ _Z_   _ _ _
(1) Including Taxes and Dutfes.
(2) Included fn the Base Costs.
Total indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated at S381.0 million



- 53 -
INDIA
INDIA                                  Annex 3.2
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT                         T
--------------------------------                    Page 4 of 4
Project Cost Sunary
....................
Annual Investments
Project Components                               FY93      FY94       FY9f      FY96       FY97       FY98      Total
---------------------------USS miM.io --            -- ---------------
Chandrapur Unit 7 (500 MW)
- Local                    9.0       27.3      46.2       56.4        9.6      19.4      186.9
- Foreign                 12.5       38.9      67.1       83.6        3.3      30.0    275.4
.......  .......  ........... .......  ........ ...... ... .......  ....... ....... ...
- Total                   21.5       66.2     113.3      140.0      71.9       49.4    462.3
Chandrapur-Padhge HVDC Transmission Link
- Local                    2.3       14.0      50.6       51.8      25.0        5.7    149.4
- Foreign                  0.0       19.6      t4.        77.1      37.6        9.4    218.0
.......  .......  ........... .......  ........ ..... ..... ........... ...... ........ ...
- Total                    2.3       33.6    124.9       128.9      62.6       15.1    367.4
Distribution Reinforcement Program
- Local                    2.5       15.0      22.5       30.0        5.0       0.0       75.0
- Foreign                   1.7      10.0      15.0       20.0       3.3        0.0       50.0
....... .......      ........... .......  ........... .......  -------...... ... ........ ...
- Total                    4.2       25.0      37.5       50.0       8.3        0.0     125.0
Consultants and Related Nonitoring Eq.
-Local                     0.3        0.4       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.7
- Foreign                   1.0       1.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        2.0
.......    .......    ........... .......  ........... .......  -------...... ... ........ ...
- Total                     1.3       1.4       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        2.7
Total Project Costs
- Local                   14.1       56.7    119.3       138.2      58.6       25.1     412.0
- Foreign                 15.2       69.5     156.4      180.7      84.2       39.4    545.4
,.......  -------.... .......    ........... .......  -------    -------...... ............
-Total                    29.3      126.2    275.7    318.9        142.8       64.5    957.4
3=3  =,3 -=           - E3 -=  3=33=  .3333    5 =333 _3w3=3
Project Components                               FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97       FY98      Total
............................... ....... ..... ........._  .......  .......  ....... ...........  .......  ...........  .......
...........                    Rs....... Re. million.------------------.--
Chandrapur Unit 7 (500 NW)
- Local                  240.3    780.8   1396.3   1777.7    933.3    653.3   5781.7
- Foreign                333.4   1111.2   2027.9   2632.1    1412.4   1009.4   8526.4
.......   .......... .......   ........... .......  ........... ....... ....... ... .................. ...
- Total                  573.7   1892.0   3424.2   4409.8   2345.7   1662.7  14308.1
Chandrapur-Padhge HVDC Transmission Link
- Local                   62.0    401.3   1528.7   1631.1    815.8            189.0   4627.9
- Foreign                  0.0    561.6   2244.3   2427.5   1225.1            315.2   6773.7
....... .......... .......     ........... .......  ........... ....... ................... ... ....... ...
- Total                   62.0    962.9   3773.0   4056.6   2040.9    504.2  11401.6
Distribution Reinforcement Program
- Local                   66.9    429.3    679.9    953.9          163.2        0.0   2293.2
- Foreign                 74.6    315.2    482.5    659.0    136.9              0.0   1668.2
.......  .......... .......  ........... .......  ........... ....... s ...............
- Total                  141.5    744.6   1162.4   1612.9    300.0              0.0   3961.4
Consultants and Related Monitoring Eq.
- Local                     7.7      10.2       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       17.9
-Foreign                  25.5       25.5        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       51.0
....... ........ ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
- Total                   33.2       35.7        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       68.9
Total Project Costs
- Local                  376.9   1621.6   3604.9   4362.7   1912.3    842.3  12720.7
- Foreign                433.5   2013.5   4754.7   5718.6   2774.4   1324.6  17019.3
....... ....... ....... ....... ------- ....... .......
-Total                   810.4   3635.2   8359.6  i0081.3   4686.6   2166.9  29740.0
------  ---- 3=M   *=a3=  ==33=   3=3    33333    3=3



- 54 -
Annex 3.3
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Consultants emploved by MSEB for proiect engineering and implementation
1.          Chandrapur Unit 7: MSEB's Engineering and Design Department has
conducted feasibility studies and prepared preliminary design reports on the
proposed generation expansion. The detailed engineering and design of the power
generating unit is being carried out by MSEB with the assistance of Desein
Private Limited, India, in association with Black and Veatch International, USA.
The consortium is acceptable to the Bank.   The consultants will assist in
construction management, including manufacturing surveillance, expediting and
ensuring quality during the fabrication of major equipment as well as during
actual construction, and in ensuring compliance with erection specifications.
2.          Chandrapur-Padahe HVDC Transmission Link: MSEB engaged in July 1991,
the services of a consortium formed by NTPC of India and Hydro-Qudbec and Lavalin
of Canada, as consultants for carrying out the engineering design, preparing the
tender documents, specifications and drawings, providing MSEB assistance during
bidding process and bid evaluation, preparing construction drawings, supervising
equipment manufacture, erection, and civil works construction. NTPC and Hydro-
Quebec carried out successfully the engineering of the Rihand-Delhi HVDC
transmission link under Bank Loan 2555-IN.   The joint venture NTPC/Hydro-
QuebeclLavalin is acceptable to the Bank for this project.



.$ecod Mih   sio           p i                   5'       ........e<,;:,^.i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ij
'.!:. 5 in otal)in Rare  (5 n totl) inAdminis |trtl              kVduicl       (Accounts)taj t                |     *  
.X~0s,                                         ON 
gy,l        4C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 3.5
-56-                                     Page 1 of 2
4;
_f"5 ts   CoFc   e F             f
.0 c                   0 o-
YI-4 a u w .   aU            :;.j  ax
*~~~  S -S S1@@te@         ' 
*~~~~- S         Q  U1    l     
.., ..                   ;I                   Z
cm S                   -                  r---------------
*  --          - -      - -   - --S-       - -   -  - -   - -   -
itiei~~~~~~~~t
___ .-    -   -   -   -   -   -   ---     -  - -  ----           --
WI                    ~~~~~~toI    WIi-
S                     a _i zuxn   euR   lXuuuu 
ji  jla _  _  8  _      Ruu      _       _  _  __  _                       It
j u w"R 0 t "ll w | u RCA 3 e
II                                   n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
~~  i~'~   IoU    QA                                   U  raIi
.*   *        - . --           --       - ------ ---------
@ X ei i w sa |R x RI                  n              - I l Ig_ 
U'i.  j "---  ------- -------------- U                    R
.-:s:   : :__                 N"_RR_R   _    _~                                 _ 
<   .  .         .       .   .  ... .  .... ..U11  *-    ...U..   .y.   ..   ..   ..   ..       . .   ..   .1
-u
.:  -   n  -----  n ----------------------
< * sr *    * o*      - _a-            - -a_------------
s ~------X-------------------------------g
Si~~~~~ S:   : :-:    a""          wS
wu s ~~~i.-.        .    ..... w.... SIg
N          5                                              U a  IL
*-N,  S           sail                                                   -a--______
*   .  .    L.
S  S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'  X    8   vZ  X  -  a      s       A          a  V.
i      S                                                                     -I f          oXX B|'t
:  :5                          E  D< o                      _ N 
@ | | | ~~~~~,    z: )o*    S04,    
v ,  -                      -     5estu5   c                        ;~Yc
o  *EDU> _4,  e . n          8 5  4,  -            X        a.  ^t



INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA PO4ER PROJECT
................. ................................
Project lptementation Schedule
.. ............ ..................... ........ 
:       91992   :      1993             1994            1995             1996            1997      :
Project Copcpnent and Activity             --------------------------------------------..----------------..----.-----.----
for Najor Packages                         :    1 2 1 3 1 4 :    1 2 1 3 1 4 :  1     1 3 1 4 :    1 2 1 3 1 4: 1 1 2 1 3 1 4 :    1 2 1 3 1 4:
...............................          .    . . I ....... I-..I..l .--I.-.I.-...........  .... I--- I-- I--- I--- I   I--- --- I-----I    -I---I------ ---I---I------    I :   I   I---
Chandrapur-Padhge HVDC Transmission Lirk:   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I            I   I  I   :   I   I   I
--------------------.----         :      11I I:1  I I I              I        I: I        I:    I   I   I: 1I        I:
Preliminary InvestigatIoam  surveys,       :   I   I   I   : I   I   I   : I   I   I   : I   I               : I   II    : I   I   I
lndw acquisition, development,             :   I   I   I        I   I   I   :   I   I   I        I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :I   I   I   :  S: Speciffcatioa  Ready
cuqputer studies  etc.                     =GSCGG=G=            I   I   I   :   I   I   I        I   I   I       I   I   I        I   I   I   :   1:Invitation to 8id
:   I   I   I   :   I   I   I        I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :  0: Opening of Bids
DC Terminal Statiors  PLC Commication   :SlI   I   I E:A  I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :  A: iard of Contract
(Equipment. Civil Works and Erection)      :    =I====== == =----                     =-                          =   =       s== I   I
:   I SII OI  E:A  I   I   I   : I   I   I  :            I   I   : I   I   I   : I   I   I   :  Synchronization:
Stupty of tower.;                              I                                                                          I   :   I   I   I   :   - Pote 1: October 96
:   I SII  01   : A I   I   I   : I   I   I  :           I   I   : I   I   I   : I   I   I   :   - Poae 2: February 97
Supply of conductors                           I =        =      _      =        _        =     =        =      I    I   I   :   I   I
:   I SI 11 0:  EIAI   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :  Commercial Operation
Supply of insulators                           I    =-=:=z============ ==================  I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :  - Pole 1: November 96
:   I Sl   01   : A I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I         I   I   I       I   I   I   :   - Pole 2: March 97
Supply of earthuire                        :   I =   _     r                                            =-==I    I   I   :   I   I
I   SIl    1 0   :    Al  I  I   I   I   I       I   I   I        I   I   I       I   I   I   :
Suptly of hardware                             I                                                                 I ==I  I====u====I===I=============='  I   I   I   :   I   I 
:   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :1  I I I:   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I :
Supply of accessories for conductors       :   I SI]  10       Al   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I
mnd earthwire                              :   I  =-  =G =:      ====      ============    ==              -       _     |    |   I |     I
:   I   I   SI    1:   O   EIA    I  :  I  I  I  :  I   I   I    :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I
Special tools                              :   I   I                            I=cS=S:   I   I: I   I   I       I   I   I        I1    I   I
:   I   I   I   :   I   I    I   S:l    IA    I   Al  :  I  I  I  :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I
Electrodes and electrode line              :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I=====               ====--==-                     I   :   I   I  I
:   I SI  II  0:  EIA  I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I   :   I   I   I          I   I   I
Comamication equipment (OPGW Wire)             I =a====sin-==S=== -=-   ===  =======II  1   I   I   I
:1  I       I:1  I I I              1:   I   I:   I   I  I    :1I1 1I:    I   II  :
Foundations and erections of towers,       : I I           : I I            :                I I   III                                II
strlnging of conductors and                    I SII OI  E:A  I   I   I   : I   I   I  :             I   I   : I   I   I   : I   I   I
earthwire, including supervision               I  -                                 ==                   -=    =-----I    I   I
:   I   ISI I O :   IA  I   I   :        II          I   I   I        I   I   I       I   I   I
AC suitchyard                                  I   IS .=          ==========:=                          I   I    I   I   I        I   I   I
Key dates for various sub-ccmpqnents of the terminals and line are given in Annex 3.6.
PID
cw
0*(



INIDIA
SECOND MAJtASMYRA PCOSR PROJECT
................................
Key Dates for the Construction of the Project Coqpunts
........................................................
Cons. or                     Bolter   Cons. or              Bolter  Conissi-Erection
Award of Delivery Delivery Erection Drum         Erection Hydraulic  Light    oning  & Cam.  Synchro- Crm  rcia
Project Element                             Contract Begins   Coqplled Begins   Lifting  Compiled   Teast           up    CoW  l'ed Campt4ed nfzation Operation
.......................................  .................................................  .......  .......... .......  .......... .......  .......... .......  .......... .......  .............. ..... ...................................
Chandrapur Unit 7 (500 El)
.............................
Civil Works                                   Dec.93   Mar.94 C')                              Dec.96 (0*)
Bolter                                        Apr.93   Jul.94   Nmr.96   Oct.94   Mar.95   Nar.96   Apr.96   Sep.96                             Mar.97    Ju1.9?
Electrostatic Precipitator                    Sep.93   Apr.94   Jan. ff    ov.94                                                       Jul.96
Insulatfon (BLR,ESP.PIP)                      Dec.9C   May 95   Apr.96   Now.9f                                                       Jul.ff
Turbine-Generator                             Apr.93   Oct.94   Mar.96                                                                          Iar.97    Jun.97
C & I and Data Acquisitlon Systm               aer.94   Jan.93   Jul.96                        Nov.96                        Jan.97
nerator Control  nd Relsy Paet                oct.93              Jun.96                                                              Nov.96
Circulating Water Pulp                        Sep.94   May 95   Jut.96   Jan.96                                                        Sep.96
Condensate Polishing Unit                     Jul.96   Jun.93   Jul.96                                                                 Feb.97
Flue as Deuphurizatlon Unit                   Jun.94   Jun.93   Sep.96   Dec.95                Dec.96                                 Apr.97               JAu9
Stack Elevator                                Mar.93                                                                                  Sep.96
WV S:tdcer                                    NOv.9%              Jan.96                                                               Jul.96
Ash Nndling Plant                         -  Sep.94   Jan.95   Jan.96                                                                  J97
Dmierslizer Plant                             May 94   Jul.94   Dec.93   Oct.94                Nar.96                        Jun.96
Firs Fighting Systm                           Jan.94   Jul.94    Apr.95   Nay 95               NoV.93                        Feb.96
Genator Trwuforwr                             Mar.95              Oct.96                                                              Jan.97
C') Start of eivil works.
(0**  C'.pletion of civil orks.
00
0.
Y a



INDIA
SECOD NANARSNT  POWER PRJECT
Key Dates for the Construction of the Project C     _
Cons. or Con. or          Stub    Stub                       Coissi-Erection
Aard of Delivery Delivery Erection Setting Setting StrrngingStringing oning & Ce_. Synchro- Comnarcial
Project Elennt                         Contract Beins  Compted Begins  Befins  Caupled Begins  Coptled Compled Caetl'ed nfiatien Opeation
................................... ............................................. ....... .......... ....... -------... ----  ------  -------. ------- -------... .....------.. .. . .. .
Obaadrapur-Pahe HVDC Transasain Link
.. ......................................
DC TreminsL Stations, PLC Comiication                                                                                            PoL* 1s  Pote 1:
---------------------------------------                                                                                          Oct.96   Nov.96
(Equipsent, Civil Wlorks nd Erection)    Jan.93                                                                                 Pole 2:  Pole 2:
1. Civil Works:                                                                                                                  Feb.97   Mar.97
i) Valve Hall Butlding                         Apr.93  Aug.95
i1) Equipmnt fouvmtiors*                        Sep.93   Sep.95
cable trench
2. Erection:
O) Cbling and Termination                                        Oct.94                                              Apr.96
it) Station Auxiloarles                                           Jan.94                                              Dec.95
lit) HAC Equipment                                                 Jan.94                                              Apr.96
Iv) Control Equipment                                            Nay 95                                               Nay 96
v) HYOC Equipment   Pole 1                                       Feb.95                                                ay 96
v) 0YC Equipment -- Pole 2                                       Aug.95                                              Oct.96
HNC Line                                                                                                                Jut.96 Oct.96/  Now.9f/
...........                                                                                                                      Feb.97   Nar.97
Suppty of touers                         Jan.93                     Jan.94                                              Jun.95
Suppty of conductors                     Feb.93                                               oar.94  JuL.96
Supply of insulators                     Apr.93                     Jan.94                                              May 96
Supply of earthuire                      Feb.93                                               Mar.94   Jun.96
Supply of hardware                       Har.93                     Jan.94                                              Jun.96
Saqply of accessories for cond4ctors
and earthuire                            Mar.93
Special tools                            Jut.93
Electrodes and electrode line            Sep.94
OPGQ Cable                               Apr.93
Foundatfons rw    erections of touers,                                                                                                                               >
stringing of conductors and 
earthuire, Including supervision         Jan.93 nQ
AC switchrard                            Apr.93                                                                                                                      |
w
0.I



- 60 -
INDIA                                          Annex 3.7
SECOND KAHARANTRA P.WER PROJECT
................................
Procuremnt Arrangements
--......*          Procurement Method   .-.------
ICe (a)             LCB               Other         I.B.F.      Total Cost
.................  .......................... .................    ..................... ................. ............................. ........
Contract  Bank   Contract  Bank   Contract   Sank   Contract Contract   Sank
Project Components                     Value   Finance   Value   Finance   Value   Finance   Value    Value   Finance
Chandrapur Unit 7 (500 NW)
.............................
Preliminary Works                          *-       *-       *         *                           0.4      0.4       0.0
Civil Works                               --        --            -    -        -         -       48.6     48.6       0.0
Boiler and Auxiliaries                  111.6    100.3        -         -       --       --        --     111.6    100.3
Electrostatic Precipitators              23.0       8.6      --                                    -       23.0       8.6
Insulation                                --        *-                --        --       --        8.1      8.1       0.0
Turbine and Auxiliaries                  86.9      78.2                                   --       --      86.9      78.2
Central Processing Urit                   0.6       0.5                --       --       --                 0.6       0.5
I & C and Data Acquisition System         8.7       7.1      --                                    --       8.7       7.1
Generator Control Relay Panels            0.3       0.2                         --                 --       0.3       0.2
Cfrculating Water Pumps                   1.6       1.2                -        -         --       --        1.6      1.2
Stack Elevator                            0.3       0.2       -                                             0.3       0.2
NV Switchgear                             3.5       2.6      *-        --                 --                3.5       2.6
Ash Handling Plant                        4.5       3.2                                            --       4.5       3.2
Demineralizer Plant                       5.6       4.0                --                 --       --       5.6       4.0
Fire fighting System                      3.1       2.2       -        -        --       --        --       3.1       2.2
Generator Transformer                     4.5       3.2       --                          -                 4.5       3.2
Other Elee. & Kech. Packages             17.2      12.8      --        --       --        --      20.8     38.0      12.8
Flue Gas Desulfurization System                                   -                               44.9     44.9       0.0
Transport,Erectfon,tnsurance,Testing      --        --       --                                   38.2     38.2       0.0
Consultancy                               --        --        --                          --       4.8      4.8       0.0
Engineering and Administration             *        --            --      --                      25.1     25.1       0.0
Total Chandrapur Unit 7                 271.4    224.3       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    190.9    462.3    224.3
Chandrapur-Padhge HVDC Trans. Link
,....................................
Prelim. Invest., surveys, land acq.,
development, computer studIes, etc.       --        --       *-                                    2.3      2.3       0.0
DC Terminals and Coffamication Eq.
(Equipment, civil works, erection)        --        --       --        --       --       --      239.0    239.0       0.0
supply of towers and
Foundations and erections of towers,
strlnging of conductors and
earthwire, including supervision          --        --       --        --                         30.7     30.7       0.0
Supply of conductors                      --       (b)                 --       --       --       32.7     32.7       0.0
Supply of insulators                     42.8      38.1                                                    42- - -  4.8  38.1
Supply of earthwire                       *-        -        *                                     0.4      0.4       0.0
Supply of hardware                        *     -    -       --                                    1.8       1.8      0.0
Supply of accessories for conductors
and earthwire                             2.3       0.9                --                                   2.3       0.9
Special tools                             2.6       2.0                         --                 --       2.6       2.0
Electrodes and electrode line                                --                           --       1.7       1.7      0.0
Supply of OPGW Cable                      9.7       7.7      .-            --      -.                        9.7      7.7
AC switchyard                              -        --        -        --       --                 1.4       1.4      0.0
Total HVDC Link                          57.4      48.7      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    310.0    367.4       48.7
Distribution Reinforeement Program       80.7      70.0      --         -       6.3       5.0     38.0    125.0      75.0
Consultants and Ass. Equipment             *-                                   2.7      2.0       --       2.7       2.0
................  ...... _. .......  .. .... ..  ... .... _  .......  -----   ....... _.....  .......
TOTAL                                   409.5    343.0       0.0       0.0      9.0      7.0    538.9    957.4    350.0
ICB: International Competitive Bidding.           LCB: Local Coapetitive Bidding.
Other: Bids from at least three suppliers, and selection of consultants according to Bank guidelines.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Finsnced. Out of this, USS239.0 million worth of equipment and materials would be procured under
Limited International Competitive Bidding CLICB) and financed under suppliers, credits.
(a): Most of the contracts will be procured under [CS on a supply-and-erect basis. Some will Include ecvil works
to ensure better etordination during ifplemmntation.
(b): In case funds under the Bank loan remain, following awards of the contract packages to be procured within
the Chandrapur-Pedghe HVDC Transmission Link conponent, these funds would be used to fund part of supply of
conductors package (to be procured under [CB).



INDIA
SECOND NANARASHTRA POCER PROJECT
.... ...................................... ..........
Procurement ScheduLe
........................................................... ...................................................................................... 
Specifications        Invitation            Opening           Evaluation            CONTRACT
ProJect ELement                                   Ready                                                                            AWARD
....................................... ......................................................................................... ...................................................
Chandrapur 7th Unit (500 Wi)
. ............................
Civil Works                                           June 93             JuLy 93        September 93         November 93          December 93
Boiler                                                June 92             July 92          October 92           January 93            ApriL 93
Electrostatic Precipitator                         ianuary 93            April 93              July 93           August 93        September 93
Insutation (BLR.ESP,PIP)                              June 94             July 94        September 94         November 94         December 94
Turbine-Generator                                     June 92             July 92         November 92          February 93            April 93
C & I end Data Acquisition System                   August 93          October 93          January 94          February 94             arch 94
Generator Control and Relay Panel                 February 95              Nay 95           August 95        September 95           October 95                         c%
Circulating Water Puip                             January 94            April 94              July 94           August 94        Septewber 94
Condensate Polishing Unit                          October 93         February 94               Nay 94             June 94             July 94
Flue Gas Desulphurization Unit
Stack Elevator                                        July 94          October 94          Janaury 95         February 95             arch 95
WV Suitchgear                                     February 94              Nay 94        Septerber 94          October 94         Noveirber 94
Ash Handlng Plant                                  January 94            April 94             July 94           August 94        September 94
Demineralizer Plant                                October 93         December 93            March 94             April 94              May 94
Fire Fighting System                                  June 93           August 93         November 93         December 93          January 94
Generator Transformer                               August 94          Octcber 94          January 95         February 95             March 95
Consultancy and Training
lx
0.



Annex 3.8
-62-                       ~~~~~~~Page 2 of 2
I   S
*   I
:   :
  U
:u :
.   . *   aa                                 a       
t..~~~a  ii4              
<'E~~~~~~ 'S                         
*       a s  .                         Iig            >|2i
ri.    : : :
. -              S I
:5:; istt El  I
U'SW *     kk  ZWooSooo!f                          e 
* ~     . Ss I                    lff           0



- 63 -
Annex 3.9
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
________________________________
Schedule of disbursements
_________________________
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year            Half-yearly       Cumulative
Ending                     Disbursements    Disbursements
FY93
December 31, 1992 a/           19.0              19.0
June 30, 1993                  20.8              39.8
FY94
December 31, 1993              14.5              54.3
June 30, 1994                  20.4              74.7
FY95
December 31, 1994              33.3             108.0
June 30, 1995                  38.5             146.5
FY96
December 31, 1995              52.6             199.1
June 30, 1996                  60.6             259.7
FY97
December 31, 1996              61.3             321.0
June 30, 1997                  21.8             342.8
FY98
December 31, 1997               3.6             346.4
June 30, 1998                   3.6             350.0
Subtotal                      350.0
Closing Date of the Loant June 30, 1998
a/ Includes depomit into the special account (US$19 mllion).



- 64 -                      Annex 3.10
Page 1 of 12
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Environmental Assessment - Summary
Introduction
1.        The proposed project, to be executed by the Maharashtra State
Electricity Board (MSEB), includes: (a) the construction of the seventh and
last stage of Chandrapur Thermal Power Station, by the addition of a 500 KW
coal-fired unit; (b) the extension of Manarashtra transmission system,
including the construction of a  500 kV HVDC line from Chandrapur to Padghe
(about 735 km) and the associated terminal stations; (c) the implementation of
a distribution system efficiency component; and (d) the implementation of a
program to strengthen MSEB's environmental management capability at the
corporate level. MSEB's engineering and design department has conducted
feasibility studies and prepared preliminary design reports on the proposed
generation and transmission expansions. An earlier Bank loan is supporting
the installation of 2 x 500 MW coal-fired units at the same site, under the
Chandrapur Thermal Power Project (Loan 2544-IN). MSEB's consultants,
Associated Industrial Consultants India Private Ltd. have prepared an
environmental assessment (EA) report based on the likely environmental impacts
of the entire power plant at its ultimate design capacity, with all seven
units in operation. MSEB has also prepared an environmental assessment for
the proposed HVDC transmission line and associated terminals.
2.        Environmental clearance for Chandrapur 7 was granted by Government
of India in February 1990 on the condition that: (a) a multi-flue stack of not
lses than 275-meter height be constructed, and (b) a flue gas desulphurization
(FGD) unit be installed. In addition, the National Airports Authority
formally issued in February 1992 its no objection to the construction of the
275-m chimney, thus allowing MSEB to proceed with the project. Application
for forest clearance for the HVDC line is still being processed.
3.        A substantial amount of consultation has taken place with affected
people by MSEB and state authorities concerning the environmental impact of
the project, particularly on the resettlement issues linked to the
construction of the previous stage of the Chandrapur power station (units 5 &
6) and to which Bank staff have devoted a significant part of their
supervision of the Chandrapur Thermal Power Project to ensure that these
issues are resolved in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. As part of the
requirements for obtaining project approval from the central government
authorities, a notification was published in the government gazette and all
major state newspapers in December 1988, announcing MSEB's intention to
proceed with the proposed project. In addition, MSEB will make a summary of
the environmental assessment report available to the public. To that effect,
a notification will be placed in the local newspapers of the sLate specifying
the locations at which this documer't duly translated into Marathi, can be
obtained.



- 65 -
Annex 3.10
Page 2 of 12
I. Chandrapur Thenmal Power Station (7th Unit)
Current Status
4.        At present, Chandrapur Thermal Power Station has four coal-fired
generating units, 210 MW each, in commercial operation, and two additional
coal-fired units, 500 MW each, under commissioning. The power generated at
this plant is conveyed by 400 kV and 220 kV transmission lines to the main
load centers around Koradi, Warora and Bombay. Coal for the power plant ie
mined at the Wardha Valley coal fields nearby and transported to the power
plant over aerial ropeway, railway wagons, and trucks. The present
consumption of coal by the first four units is around 3.0 million tons per
year. When the two additional 500 MW units enter commercial operation, the
power station will require a total of 6.2 million tons of coal per year at
0.65 plant capacity factor, the transportation and handling arrangements for
which are complete. With the addition of the seventh unit, the requirement of
coal will be about 7.8 million tons per year, based on the same plant capacity
factor. Coal will continue to be provided from the Wardha Valley coal fields
and no new coal mine will need to be developed for the purpose of meeting the
requirements of the power plant.
5.        Project Description.  For the proposed 500 MW coal-fired unit on
the present site, the boiler will use pulverized coal as primary fuel, using
light diesel oil for startup purposes and flame stabilization during periods
of low loads. Steam generated in the boiler at high pressure and temperature
will drive a multi-stage steam turbine, coupled to a generator to produce
electricity. The steam would exhaust into a condenser where it would be
condensed back into water (condensate) and pumped through a series of feed
water heaters into the boiler again. A closed-circuit circulating water
system, with a cooling tower, would supply cooling water for the condenser.
Fresh water is obtained through pipes from the Erai reservoir, about 8 km away
from the plant, where a dam has been built on the Erai river for providing the
required make-up water for the cooling water system and condensate quality
water for use, after treatment, in the boiler, as necessary. An additional
water reservoir of 200,0000m capacity has been built at the power station
along with units 5 and 6 to cater to cooling demand fluctuations. The
capacity of the existing water treatment and demineralization plant will be
enhanced to meet the demands of make-up water for the new unit. The liquid
effluents generated from the water treatment process, as well as from boiler
and cooling tower blowdowns and wash water from other equipment, will be
treated and neutralized in a waste water treatment facility to be recycled for
ash-sluicing. The plant instrumentation and control system will use state-of-
the-art, microprocessor-based technology.
6.        The Site.  Chandrapur Thermal Power Station is situated about 6 km
from Chandrapur city, a district headquarters in the State of Maharashtra; the
town of Chandrapur is about 120 km from Nagpur. Infrastructural facilities,
such as the cooling water system, coal handling, ash disposal, the electrical
switchyard, and social support facilities for the permanent staff, were
designed to suit the ultimate station design capacity of 2,340 MW comprising
seven generating units.
7.        Levelled land measuring 973 hectares has already been acquired for
the power plant site, in addition to about 336 hectares for the residential



- 66 -
Annex 3.10
Page 3 of 12
colony. The existing land areas are adequate for the proposed expansion of
the power station and the residential facilities. Another approximately 2,400
hectares of land has been acquired for the ash disposal area. The topography
of this region consists of alternating low-lying river plains at elevations
less than 300 meters and a series of bluffs 300 to 600 meters high. The soil
throughout the project area can be characterized as sandy loam type,
consisting of sand, gravel, silt and clay. Chandrapur district, as a whole,
abounds in mineral wealth. Besides large deposits of coal, there are iron
ores, chromite, limestone, building stone and clay. It is also the richest
district in the state in respect of forest wealth. The forests abound in
varieties of teak. The nearest such forest is about 40 km away from the plant
site.
8.        There is a large number of herbaceous members found side by side
with forest tree species. Some cultivation of mixed crop species is also done
in the district. Due to heavy rainfall and humidity, the trees are loaded
with varieties of orchids. The region is traversed by perennial rivers and
endowed with many commercial varieties of fish, occurring naturally in the
water resources. Because of the presence of rich forestry, there is an
abundance of wildlife in the area. The Tadoba National Forest, about 45 km
from the project site, boasts of tigers, wild boars, panthers, sloth bears,
hyenas, bisons, wild buffalos, deer, etc. It draws tourists from far and
near.
9.        The existing plant, with four units in commercial operation, has
been working satisfactorily without causing any significant adverse impact on
the environment. Modeling studies conducted on gaseous emissions from the
plant indicate emissions well within the limits prescribed for regulatory
compliance (para. 12).
10.       Displacement of Population.  The proposed extension of the
Chandrapur power station does not involve any new displacement of population
as adequate space is already available on the existing plant site for the
installation of the seventh and last unit. However, the construction of units
5 and 6 led to the displacement of about 800 families to whom a rehabilitation
compensation (in addition to the compensation for land/house structure
acquisition, when applicable) has been paid. Such cash compensation has
enabled a large number of families to resettle in satisfactory conditions.
Some families, however, remain to be fully resettled and rehabilitated. The
Government of Maharashtra has undertaken to complete their resettlement, and
rehabilitation and issued an order to that effect in February 1992. It is
expected that such R&R plan, wkich, will require the identification of such
families according to specific eligibilitv criteria, will be implemented
within a period of about 18 months, starting immediately. The Department of
relief and Rehabilitation, in consultation with the District Collector
Chandrapur, has prepared a detailed action plan and associated timetable for
implementing such R&R plan, identifying the various steps and agencies
involved in the process. It is envisaged that a local NGO assist in the
implementation of the plan. Adequate arrangements will be put in place to
monitor and report progress on the resettlement and rehabilitation of the
concerned families.
11.       Impacts and Mitigation.  The pollutants from the plant are: (a)
stack emissions of particulate matter (fly ash), SO2, NO, and CO2; (b) liquid



- 67 -
Annex 3.10
Page 4 of 12
effluents comprising coal pile area leaching and runoff, ash disposal area
runoff, water treatment plant area wastes, demineralizer plant effluents,
intermittent effluents generated by boiler blowdown chemical cleaning
operations, air preheater wash, etc., and other miscellaneous waste waters;
and (c) solid wastes comprising bottom ash, fly ash, fugitive dusts from coal,
ash and other chemicals used in the water treatment plant.
12.       Air Quality.  Ambient air quality was established by conducting a
survey over a period of one year at the project site for the gaseous
pollutants (SO2 and NO,) and total solid particulates (TSP). Four-hourly
samples were collected daily for the gaseous parameters and 24-hourly samples
for TSP. The temperature, wind speed, humidity and other climatological
information were also gathered from the meteorological office to correlate
measurements with statistical variations in the climate.
13.       The average concentration of SO, in the ambient air, in the area
surrounding the plant, with the first four generating units in operation,
ranged from 17 pg/am  in September to 88.2 pg/im in January.  The corresponding
average NO. varied from 17.1 pg/rm in August to 75.9 pg/ia in January. While
these values are well within the regulatory limits for S02 and NO, emission,
measured values of TSP over the same period lend themselves to careful
interpretation. The TSP values, as measured, show a variation over a wide
range of 95 to 1'1 pg/mP during the monsoon months (June through November)
under the same operating parameters. At other times during the year, fugitive
dust caused by vehicular traffic plying over the unpaved roads as well as over
unpaved shoulders skirting the main thoroughfares, has caused erroneous
readings in the dust pollution which cannot be attributed to the power plant.
Table I compares the ambient air quality levels, measured under existing base-
line conditions (4 units in operation) as well as expected with all seven
units in operation at full load against the regulatory limits of GOI and the
Bank.
14.       Particulate Hatter.  Assuming the coal to have an average ash
content of 45 per cent, the seventh unit will add about 1,460 tons of fly ash
per day at 65 per cent plant load factor. Electrostatic precipitators, to be
installed at the back end of the boiler with a particulate removal efficiency
of over 99.5Z, will remove at least 1,453 tons of ash from the stack gas. For
the entire plant, and with all seven units in operation, the total production
of fly ash, on the same basis, will approximate 6,850 tons per day, out of
which at least 6,800 tons will be removed by the electrostatic precipitators
at 99.5 per cent collection efficiency to prevent pollution of the environment
(para. 28). Under the Chandrapur Thermal Power Project (Loan 2544-IN), the
electrostatic precipitators of units 1 through 4 will be upgraded to ensure at
least 99.52 collection efficiency.
15.       S0. Emission.  Sulfuxrous oxides are produced by chemical reaction
during the combustion process between the inherent sulfur present in the coal
and oxygen in the air used for combustion. This emission can be controlled by
the procurement of low-sulfur coal or by installing stack gas scrubbers (flue
gas desulfurization) to remove the SO.. In the case of Chandrapur, this
emission is basically controlled by the procurement of low-sulfur coal.
Typically, Indian sub-bituminous, bituminous and anthracite coals are all
characterized by very low sulfur in them. The Wardha Valley coal has an
average sulfur content of 0.2 to 0.4 per cent only (0.6Z worst coal). Model



- 68 _
Annex 3.10
Page 5 of 12
studies have determined that the gromnd level concentrations of SO, will not
exceed regulatory limits for the whole plant even for the worst coal having
0.6 per cent sulfur. The proposed stack height of 275 meters will help in
plume dispersion over a wider area.
Table. l: Ambient Air Quality Measurements in the area surrounding the Plant
Pollutant            Guidelines (pg/?i8)            With 4 units  With 7 units
Bank      GOI      Basis           (actual)     (predicted)
Max. pg/n?    Max. pg/rn
SO2               500/a      120    24-hr avg.           48            91
NO.               100        120    1-yr avg.            29            96
Total Solid
Particulates      260        500    24-hr avg.          161/b         161 /c
Fa or unpolluted or moderately polluted background
/b Maximum measured during the rainy season (see para. 9 above)
/c The maximum TSP concentration is at a distance of 8 km from the plant, and
it remains the same because the chimneys of Units 5, 6 and 7 are higher
than the chimneys of Units 1 through 4.
Note: The above modeling has been done on the basis of an assumed height of
200 meters for the chimney of unit 7. This height has now been increased to
275 meters. Therefore, the ground level concentrations at the specific
locations will go down further due to wider dispersion.
Also, the Bank standards specify, for unpolluted or moderately polluted
background, an allowable limit of 500 tons per day (TPD) for total SO2
emissions. It is estimated that the maximum S02 emission for the 2,340 MW
Chandrapur Thermal Power Plant, at 65 per cent capacity factor, could be
around 292 TPD while burning the worst coal.
16.       Results of the modeling calculations have been interpreted in terms
of probable plant impacts, with consideration given to local meteorology, and
possible variations in fuel characteristics. The air dispersion modeling
indicates, as seen from Table I, that the expected ground level air quality.
with all seven units in operation, will remain in compliance with regulatory
requirements for all receptors, and that flue gas desulfurization (FGD) is not
required. However, the Government of India is considering the installation of
an FGD system.
17.       NO. Levels.  NO, is generated by the interaction of inherent
nitrogen in the fuel, as well as nitrogen in the air, during combustion at
elevated temperatures. The higher the combustion temperature and the total
quantity of total air used for combustion, the more the production of NO.
This pollutant in a pulverized coal-fired boiler can be basically controlled
by properly designed burners that use a low-excess air combustion system.



- 69 _
Annex 3.10
Page 6 of 12
18.       CO. Levels.  An extensive tree plantation program will be undertaken
around the power plant complex along with afforestation in some of the areas
in the immediate vicinity of Chandrapur to reduce the carbon dioxide levels in
the atmosphere.
19.       Monitoring.  On-line instrumentation installed at the stack will
monitor emissions on a continuing basis and sound an alarm for the operating
staff to take immediate action in case any of the values should exceed
specified limits.
20.       Thermal Pollution.  Since the Chandrapur power plant uses a closed
cooling water circuit, the thermal pollution caused by the plant is
insignificant. The condenser cooling water is drawn from the cooling tower
basin at an average temperature of 300C, and pumped through the condenser to
cool the turbine exhaust steam. This exchange of heat will cause the cooling
water temperature to rise by about 7.50C. As it returns to the cooling towers
and cascades down in a fine mist through a strong countercurrent of induced
draft air flowing through the towers, the temperature would fall to the
ambient level by giving up heat to the air. The wind would quickly dissipate
this heat.
21.       The condenser circulating water will also be chlorinated in order
to prevent organic growths from building up in the cooling water system.
Experience with chlorination in the running plant has established that
continuous presence of chlorine at relatively low concentrations is sufficient
for this purpose. The chlorination plant for the proposed additional unit
will also be designed on similar lines.
22.       Liquid Effluents.  The liquid effluents from the plant can be
listed as: (a) those discharged from the water treatment plants; (b) cooling
tower blowdown; (c) boiler blowdown; (d) air preheater wash water and boiler
chemical cleaning wastes; (e) coal pile leaching and runoff; (f) ash disposal
area runoff; (g) power plant miscellaneous wastes; and (h) sanitary waste
water.
23.       The effluent discharge from the water treatment and demineralizer
plants is periodic in nature; the wastes could be acidic or alkaline. They
are neutralized in a neutralization pit before being used for ash transport.
The generation of waste water from the water treatment processes would be
around 12,000 m9/day for the entire plant, and the same design philosophy
would be used for its neutralization and conditioning in a waste water
treatment plant facility.
24.       The cooling tower is required to be blown down periodically to
maintain the water quality. This blowdown, expected to be around 11,700
m3/day for all seven units, is led to a sump to be reused for the preparation
and transportation of ash slurry.
25.       The boiler blowdown water could be as much as 700 m!/day for all
seven units. The blowdown water would be cooled in a cooling pond and then
led to the waste water treatment plant for neutralization, removal of metallic
wastes, if any.
26.       The air preheaters might need to be washed with water from time to



- 70 -
Annex 3.10
Page 7 of 12
time. The boilers will also need to be chemically cleaned during
commissioning and, possJbly, at periodic intervals thereafter. These wastes
will be neutralized and treated in accordance with environmental acceptance
criteria. Especially, any metallic wastes, such as chromium, molybdenum,
copper or zinc, trapped in the effluents would be removed in the waste water
treatment plant.
27.       Water drains from the coal yard are likely to contain coal fines.
Also, because of the presence of sulfur in coal, the water that leaches
through the coal pile will tend to be acidic in nature. The leaching, as well
as the runoff from the coal pile, will be led into a settling basin, where the
fines will precipitate, and the effluent will be neutralized before being
discharged into the drains. The settling basin will be lined with clay.
Instrumentation will monitor the pH of the solution on a continuing basis and
adjust chemical dosages accordingly for neutralization. Any deviation from
the control settings will be alarmed in the control room for immediate
attention by plant operators.
28.       The ash slurry is pumped through pipelines to the ash disposal
area, located about 12 km away from the power plant site. The ash
precipitates in the disposal area and the water is held back by a small dam,
which makes the area a huge settling pond. The clean overflow from this
settling pond would be recycled for ash disposal purposes. The water
management plan, to be operational by December 1993, envisages that such
recycling of water will reduce the offtake from the Brai reservoir by as much
as 65,000m/day. Under favorable condition, this quantity of water will be
discharged into the Erai river for downstream use. The recycling of the ash
pond overflow will prevent possible contamination of the Erai river.
29.       Power plant surface drains, comprising storm water, roof drains,
etc., are piped to the site drainage ditches. Other miscellaneous drains will
be led into the waste water treatment facility where the effluents will be
treated and neutralized before being discharged to meet the drainage system.
Three stage gravity oil interceptors will treat the drains that might be
potentially contaminated by oil and remove the trapped oil. The capacity of
each separation chamber will be sufficient to accept the total oil content of
one generator transformer plus three minutes of flow from the transformer fire
protection system.
30.       Sanitary waste water will be treated in the sewage treatment plant,
the capacity of which will be enhanced. The performance of the existing
plant, using proven technology, has been satisfactory.
31.       Solid Wastes.  The solid wastes are: (a) fly ash; (b) bottom ash;
and (c) dust in the coal handling plant, ash handling plant, and water
treatment plant facilities.
*   The fly ash and bottom ash from the respective hoppers are sluiced
down with water through an open channel into the ash slurry sump.
The ash slurry is then pumped through pipelines to the ash disposal
area. The overflow system will be so designed as to ensure that
the ash is permanently covered with water. The existing ash
disposal area will be capable of accepting ash for all seven units
for the next 30-40 years.



- 71 -
Annex 3.10
Page 8 of 12
*   Analysis of the water collected from different areas of the ash
disposal yard, especially from bore holes located both upstream and
downstream of the ash bund (small dam), have indicated that no
leaching from the ash disposal areas is taking place. Also, there
has been no evidence of heavy metals in the water samples.
*   Dust containment and suppression methods will be used in the coal-
handling, ash disposal and water treatment plant facilities. The
coal conveyors for units 5 and 6 - wagon tippler hoppers, aerial
ropeway loading hopper as well as truck unloading hoppers - include
facilities for water spraying to suppress fugitive dust, The same
facility is being provided for the coal conveyors of units 1
through 4 and the unloading hopper of the aerial ropeway under a
renovation and modernization scheme. The coal-handling plant will
be fitted with exhaust fans and cyclone or bag filters to eliminate
the dust from exhaust air. In addition, mobile trucks with water
sprinklers will help keep the roadways free of fugitive dust. The
design of the recirculation system for the ash pond will provide
for the area to remain covered with water at all times. Bag
filters and water sprays, mixed with chemical wetting agents, will
help minimize dust nuisance in the coal, ash, lime, and alum
handling areas.
*   MSEB has experimented with the manufacturing of bricks using the
ash from the plant. These tests have shown positive results and
MSEB will explore the possibility of expanding such scheme on a
larger scale.
32.       Flora and Fauna.  A survey of the flora and fauna has been carried
out by MSEB's consultants, as part of their overall assessment of the project
environmental impact. The survey was used to inventory all species ex'sting
in the study area that included forest areas, settlement areas as well as
recreational areas. While the flora is an assemblage of dry deciduous and
semi-evergreen or moist deciduous species, the special feature of the area is
the luxuriant growth of teak. The fauna include fisheries and wildlife. The
forest is the natural habitat of these species. The results of the survey
reveal no identifiable impacts on the flora and fauna of the region.
33.       Risk Assessment.  Using both the World Bank guidelines and those of
GOI, the Chandrapur Thermal Power Plant component of the Haharashtra Power II
Project can be classified as being of low hazard. The significant potential
risks are identified below:
(a) Failure of the chlorination plant could cause uncontrolled
discharge of this chemical into the circulating water, thereby
eopardizing the cooling tower material. Appropriate personnel
training, with the chlorinator featuring an automatic shutoff,
should contain this risk. Plant personnel are already used to
handling this hazardous chemical in their existing plant section;
(b) Sulfuric acid and caustic soda are used in the demineralizer plant.
The bulk chemical storage tanks will be located in bund enclosures.
Any spillage will be contained and neutralized. Safety features in
the design, coupled with appropriate personnel training, are



_ 72 -
Annex 3.10
Page 9 of 12
usually adequate for this purpose. The plant personnel are already
trained in handling these chemicals.
tc) The capacity of the existing hydrogen plant to produce commercial
quality hydrogen required for the cooling of the generators, will
be enhanced. Besides the fact that the plant personnel are already
adept at running this plant, fail-safe features in the design of
the plant ensure automatic shutdowTn in the event of equipment
malfunction or improper operation.
34.       Monitoring and Supervision.  MSEB has been monitoring emissions and
effluent quality at each of their power stations on a daily basis with the
help of contractors. The State Pollution Control Board staff visits the power
stations periodically and verifies measurement results recorded by MSEB and
reviews all effluent quality analysis reports.
35.       Short-term monitoring that is required for the construction phase
of the project includes: dust, noise, odor, ground water, traffic, and effects
on other underground services. The control of these will be the primary
responsibility of the plant management. Complaints from the public, if any,
would be recorded by site staff and public health officers and would be used
to identify appropriate changes in the site practices aimed at reducing
nuisances.
36.       Some disruption to traffic flow is expected during the construction
phase. The plant management, with help from the police department, will
manage traffic problems that may arise during the work.
37.       Long-term monitoring will include air quality measurements to
ensure that ambient air quality guidelines are not violated. In order to
facilitate this monitoring, measuring instruments will be provided at the
stack, with alarm capability to signal operation beyond acceptable parameters-.
An air monitoring station will be set up at Chandrapur, with an appropriate
number of satellite stations, to help monitor the ambient air quality on a
continuing basis.
II. Chandrapur-Padahe * 500 kV BVDC Transmission Link
Current Status
38.       Project Description.  The scheme covers the following works:
-   a * 500 kV 1,500 MM Chandrapur-Padghe HVDC bipolar line (736 km);
-   * 500 kV 1,500 MW HVDC bipole converterlinvertor terminals - one
each at Chandrapur and Padghe;
-   the extension of the 400 kV substation works at Chandrapur and
Padghe;
-   electrode lines at each terminals; and
-   communication facilities.



- 73 -
Annex 3.10
Page 10 of 12
39.       The Site.  The Chandrapur converter/invertor terminal is planned to
be located inside the boundary of MSEB's Chandrapur Power Station and will be
connected to the A.C. system at 400-kV level. The Padghe converter/invertor
terminal is planned to be located next to the existing 400/220-kV substation.
The survey of the line has already been completed.
Impacts and Mitigation
40.       Impacts on the Ecology due to Project Location.  The land for the
terminal station at Chandrapur is already available with MSEB and no
additional land will be required. The terminal station at Padghe is being
established nezr MSEB's existing 400/220-kV substations. A major portion of
the land is already available with the Board. Few acres of additional land
required for AC/DC interconnection adjacent to the existing substation is
being acquired. It will not, however, involve any human rehabilitation, as
this is unused land from the village.
41.       The final survey of the transmission line has been completed.  The
line avoids wet lands and does not pass through any space reserved for public
utilities such as parks, playgrounds, etc. The scheme does not create any
threat to the survival or integrity of any community. Per the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948, MSEB enjoys all the rights awarded to the Telegraph
Authority under the Indian Telegraph Act (1885) and is allowed to use private
land for tower erection. Thus, no land acquisition is required for the
construction of the HVDC line. The route for the 735-km long transmission
link has been selected such that only 7.8 km (i.e., 1.61 of the total length
of the line) infringes on forest land - mainly degraded forest - in different
patches along the route (four districts are concerned). About 1,500 trees
along these 7.8 km will be felled within two 3-meter wide corridors,
corresponding to an area of 5 ha. However, MSEB will bear the cost of
compensatory afforestation on 41 ha (i.e., about 1.11 of the total land area
of the 52-meter wide right-of-way and almost ten times the land area that will
need to be cleared). Government land for compensatory afforestation has
already been identified by the District Collectors and in three out of the
four districts involved, acceptance by the concerned forest authorities has
already been received. Once acceptance is confirmed for the fourth district
(Thane district, near Bombay), the Forest Department (GOM) will submit the
entire scheme to the Department of Environment and Forests (GOI) for final
forest clearance.
42.       The project will not have any adverse impact on historical or
cultural features, as neither Chandrapur nor Padghe is a historical or
cultural place. Moreover, the transmission line does not pass through any
historical place, nor does it affect any rural or urban settlement. Since the
land is already available with the Board for construction of the terminals,
the project is not likely to depreciate land value or uses. Moreover, the
land below the DC transmission belt will not hinder any agricultural activity.
Hence no reduction is expected in the value of agricultural land over which
the HVDC line will pass. Damages to crops during construction of the line will
be compensated as determined by the State Revenue Authorities.
43.       Environmental Problems Due to Project Design.  The scheme will not
have any significant impact on the environment. The provision for
compensation of land, trees and crops has already been made in the project



- 74 -
Annex 3.10
Page 11 of 12
report; compensation will be required to be made only during construction/
erection of the line. The project will not have any significant impact on
natural resources, disruption of necessary access for public, wildlife water
resources, flooding, etc. The project design is adequate to meet accidental
failure of power as adequate protection will be provided to meet such
situation. The project does not involve any risk of explosion or hazardous
spills. Measures to be taken by the contractor to ensure workers' health and
safety during construction will be included in the bidding documents.
44.       Noise/Vibration/Pollution.  All the equipment under this project
will be static. Adequate measures to minimize noise/vibrations will be
included in the design of various equipments. Audible noise level of the DC
line shall be kept well below the acceptable limit value of 40 decibels (db).
45.       Access Roads.  Since the terminals at Chandrapur and Padghe are
being established in the Board's vacant premises, there is no need for the
construction of access roads. For construction, operation and maintenance of
the HVDC line, temporary access roads, wherever required, will be laid.
46.       Construction and Operation of the HVDC Line.  The terminals will be
constructed adjacent to MSEB's existing power facilities where adequate
provisions for minimizing impediments to natural drainage have already been
made. Provisions for ensuring availability of water supply, sanitation,
sheds, etc., for the temporary constructions to be erected during project
execution will be included in the project design and bidding documents. The
access roads to project sites as well as other premises shall be protected by
erecting necessary fencing and shall be guarded by security staff. The
transmission towers near inhabited areas will be equipped with anti-climbing
devices. Adequate provisions for handling fire or power failure situations
have been made in the design of the terminals. These installations will be
manned by personnel duly trained in this field and guarded by security
personnel. The scheme does not call for any special feature to protect
natural resources, rare or endangered habitats. The land at terminal stations
is free from growth of any vegetation. The maximum efforts have been taken to
avoid wet lands. Suitable tree plantation around installation will be made to
avoid soil erosion, if any. Moreover, construction operation and maintenance
of the facilities do not involve any operations leading to soil erosion.
III. Strengthening of Environmental Capability in MSEB
47.       Environmental matters are presently handled by MSEB only at plant
level. The head of the chemical testing laboratory in each power plant
dedicates part of his time to manage environmental affairs; in addition,
activities of routine monitoring of air and effluent water quality are
subcontracted to state-certified private consultants. At the corporate level,
there is no central environmental unit per se responsible for formulating
environmental policies and regulations for the whole company as well as for
monitoring their implementation, including resettlement and rehabilitation
matters.
48.       The proposed project will entail a component aimed at strengthening
MSEB's environmental capability at the corporate level by establishing a
central environmental unit responsible for: (a) formulating the company's
environmental policies; (b) establishing standards for the disposal of



- 75 -
Annex 3.10
Page 12 of 12
effluents and emissions and the associated treating technDologies; (c) setting
up a company training center and establiehing training programs for the staff
at various management and operational levels, in the area of environment,
safety, resettlement and rehabilitation; and (e) coordinating the monitoring
and evaluation of HSEB's performance in implementing the company's
environmental policies, including resettlement programs.



- 76 -
Annex 3.11
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Program for Strengthening MSEB's Environmental Management Capability
Background
1.        Environmental matters are presently handled by MSEB at the plant
level only. The current organization provides for a small environmental unit,
headed by the chief of the chemical testing laboratory, to manage
environmental affairs at each power station. The unit reports directly to the
plant manager who is directly responsible for plant operation and maintenance.
As a result, management decisions related to environmental matters may
sometimes be biased by production-oriented considerations.
2.        At ;he corporate level, there is no central environmental unit per
se responsible for formulating the Board's environmental policies and
regulations as well as for monitoring their implementation, including
resettlement and rehabilitation matters.
Obiective
3.        To strengthen its environmental management capability at the
corporate level, MSEB needs to set up a full-fledged central environmental
unit that wouldt (a) develop the Board's environmental policies; (b) establish
company standards for effluents and emissions disposal as well as for treating
technologies; (c) create an environmental training center and design training
materials on environment and safety, for employees at various managerial and
operational levels; (d) control MSEB's environmental and safety performance;
and (e) develop the Board's policies on social and resettlement issuea.
Scope of Activities
4.        The unit would be responsible for developing the Board's policies
and overall targets for: (a) the reduction of air and water pollution; and (b)
the integration of environmental concerns in expansion planning. It would
formulate regulations to comply with GOI's environmental standards and
establish the Board's own standards and guidelines in the following areast
(a) plant operation, to minimize emissions and effluents;
(b) development and engineering, to select environmental equipment,
determine effluents and emissions treating systems, set engineering
safety standards, and establish directives and guidelines for the
preparation of environmental impact assessment for power plants and
transmission lines;
(c) safety, to establish a plant safety rating system and develop
emergency contingency plans and drills;



- 77 -
Annex 3.11
Page 2 of 2
(d) social concerns, including resettlement;
(e) natural resources, for the utilization and preservation of natural
resources (ground water, rivers, lakes, land);
(f) monitoring, to develop monitoring methods, set standards for
monitoring intensity and criteria for equipment selection, and
establish a computer center for data monitoring collection and
atmospheric emissions dispersion models;
(g) training, to develop and coordinate training programs for personnel
at all levels; and
(h) auditing, to establish routine for auditing and supervision of
environmental conduct and safety.
Consultancy Services
5.        Specialized consultants should be engaged to plan and formulate the
establishment of the environmental unit as the unit's objectives and scope of
activities are quite broad and relatively complex. Mora precisely, the
consultants would be asked to prepare a development plan for the first two to
three years of the unit's operations, including the following:
(a) identification of a focused, manageable set of priority objectives
and activities for implementation at corporate and plant levels in
MSEB, with specific performance criteria for each activity at each
level;
(b) preparation of a staffing plan for hiring skilled environmental
staff, both professionals and technicians, at each level;
(c) design of a training program; and
(d) preparation of a financial plan setting out the costs of: i)
routine environmental management activities, e.g., monitoring and
audits, at corporate and plant levels, and ii) purchase,
installation, and operation of pollution control technology.
6.        Prior to preparing the derelopment plan, the consultants would
survey the regulatory framework for pollution control in the energy sector in
Maharashtra, and would identify key existing regulations and possible gaps
therein. Such survey, together with the technical assessment of key issues,
would be the basis for identifying the priority objectives and activities of
the environmental unit in the development plan.
7.        It is estimated that about 18 man-months of consultancy services
would be required to prepare the development plan and assist in the early
stages of its implementation. Such consultancy services would be complemented
by the acquisition and installation of the required computer hardware and
software as well as monitoring equipment.



- 78 -
Annex 3.12
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Inputs Into Key Activities
1.         The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement
actions, financial statements and audit reports, and associated
correspondence. An average of about 15 staff-weeks per year in total will be
required to supervise the project. Most of the field supervision activities
will be combined with the supervision of other Bank-financed projects under
execution by HSEB.
Bank Staff Inputs for Project Supervision
Approximato                  Activity                             Anticipated          Input In
D.t..                                                             Skill            Staffwoeko
Requirements
6/92-4/98     * Review of IFS documentation and bid           Engineering                 2
evaluation for steam and turbine             !'rocurement                 4
generators packages for Chandrapur 7.         Cot inanlng                 1
- Assistance In finalization of project         Management                  8
ftinncing plan.                               Environmnt                  I
I Selection of consultants for
environmntal management and load
research
o Monitoring of TA for private poer
developmnt.
10/92        Sua rvison Misaion
* Review of procur_ment                         Engineering                 8
* RevIow of proj ct financing                   Financial Analysis/
arrang emnt                                   Mang eme nt                 2
* Roview of project management                  Economics                   I
arrangmente
* Review of unaudited financial
statements for 1991/92
* Reviow of preparation of mrrtar plans
for accelerated dletributlos
reinforcement program
* Review of progress for obtaining final
clearance for HVDC trann icsion link.
2/98          Suarvlulon MIslon
* R wiow of procurement progress                Engilneering                8
* Review of distribution mosterplans and        Financial Analysis/
assoclated work program for                   Management                  2
distribution for 1998/94                      Economics                   2
* Review of iSES's investmnnt program
and associated financing plan
* Review of MSEBs financial performance
and compiIance with financial
covenante



- 79 -
Annex 3.12
Page 2 of 3
9/9a        Sup rveon Mission
* Reviw *f pro;   implementation            Engineering               2
progras                                   Financial Analysis/
* Review of procurement progress            Management                2
* Review of consultancy program for         Environment               I
env ronmont.l management and
electricity demand management
* Review of preparation of additional
moster plans.
 Environmental monitoring
1994/97     Two Supervision missions per year 1/         Engineering               6
Financial Analysio/
Management               5
Economic                 1
199t        Project completion report (PCR)              Engineering               8
preparation                                 Financial Analysis        2
Econooie                 2
1/ - Supervision mission of 2/94 will discuss findings of high-level comanssion on Institutional
Issues.
- Mid-term review to take place In 2/95.
MSEB's Contributions to Supervision
2.        Progress reports are to be submitted by MSEB on a quarterly basis,
at the end of March, June, September and December of each year. The progress
reports will provide an update of the status of procurement, contract award,
project cost, commitments, withdrawal applications, disbursements,
construction, implementation of institutional aspects of the project
(including selection and mobilization of consultants, and their own
submissions, as applicable), key financial and operating performance
indicators for the Board1, and results of environmental monitoring. Progress
reports will also highlight project performance as measured against appraisal
schedule, analyze delays and difficulties, and discuss mitigating meeasures.
In addition, HSEB will submit its annual, unaudited financial statements
within six months of the end of the fiscal year, i.e., by September 30 of each
year, and its annual, audited financial statements within nine months of the
end of the fiscal year, i.e., by December 31 of each year.
3.        Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of:
(a) for the Chandrapur 7 component, the Technical Director, Generation
Projects;
I    Financiail indicators will include: on a quarterly basis,
receiva'bles, by consumer category, and payables, and on an annual
basis (end-December report), internal cash generation ratio, rate
of return, debt service coverage ratio. Quarterly operational
indicators will include, for each generating station, plant load
factor, heat rate, plant availabilty, auxiliary consumption and ESP
efficiency, as well as total transmiscion and distribution system
losses (in Z of total net generation).



_ 80 -
Annex 3.12
Page 3 of 3
(b) for the HVDC transmission link, the Technical Director, EHV
projects;
(c) for the distribution component, the Technical Director,
Distribution; and
(d) for the technical assistance activities, the Technical Member.
MSEB will appoint a Project Coordinator to supervise the overall
implementation of the project and its various components, and coordinate with
the Department of Energy and Environment (GOM) for the activities to be
carried out by the state government. The Project Coordinator will also be
responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions and
for providing information required by missions.



INDIA
SECOND NARARASHTR PCUER PROJECT
NSEB'S Actual and Forecast Incain. Stdtements
............................................
tRa Milion)
Fiscal Year ending
Parch 31                                  1988/89   1989/9    1990/91   191/92   1992/93   1993J94   1994/         1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/9    1999/00
- -------- |---------.Actual                                  ----------| Estimated    ------------------------------------- Forecast ------------------------
Sales of Electrcicty (GUh)                 24,981    26,973    27,958    29,287    32,060    34,545    35,435    36,370    37,047    40 058    42,420    42,521
Aveag  Tariff (Rs./kWh)                      0.78       0.83      1.04       1.09      1.31       1.44      1.60       1.69      1.79       1.85      1.99       2.09
Reveuwas:
Sale of Electricity                      19,605    22,404    29,14"    31,95S    41,976    49,907    56,535    61,291    66,392    73,917    84,596    88,860
Other Revese  (1fasc.Recovery)              117         91        88         92       101        109       112        115       117        126       134       134
....~~~~~~~~~ .....   ....                            ----.   ----         .....   ....         ..... ...----........ ... . ..... ... ........ .....
Total Rev. from Sale of Power              19,722    22,4S5    29,232    32.047    42.078    50.016    56,647    61,406    66,509    74,043    84.730    88.994
liev.Subsidies & Grants /1                1,833     3,477        146     3,695          0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0
Other Income                                478        660       727        761       833        898       921       945        963     1.041      1,102     1,105
....           .....   ....         .....   ....         .....   ....         .....   .... ..... ..... ........ ..... ..... ..... ..
Te.al Revws                                22,033    26,632    30.104    36,504    42,911    50,914    57,568    62.351    67,472    75,084    85.833    90,099
................. .................................................... ......................................................................................
Expenses
Fuel Cost                                 7,299     8,756      9,523    11,057    13,768    16,218    17.783    19,593    20,788    23,363    24,531    25,757                 X
Cornsables                                  358        423       468        542       666        778       843       926        983     1,097      1,169     1,227
Purchase of Power                         4,152     5,148      5,886      7,159     7,681     9,066      9,909    10,104    11,164    13,143    17,135    17,135
Lesse Rent                                  550       517        522        522       522       522        522       522        522       522        522       522
Vages wid Salaries                        4,030     4,608      5.118      5,988     6,850     7T.115     8,610     9.554    10,542    11.512    12,571    13,728
General Administration                      488        586       S52        621       683        739       793       846        898       943        990     1,040
RepaIrs A Naintenance                     1,443      1.588     2,155      2,931     3.434     4,252      4,826     5.325      5,999     6.533      8,365     8,901
Other Expenses                              415        451       480        540       594        643       690        736       781       820        861       904
....      ....   .   ....      ....   .  . ....     ....   .   ....      ....   .  . ....     ....   .  ....       ........ ..... ..... ..... ... ........
Total Vorking Expenses                     18,705    22,076    24,703    29,359    34,198    39,933    43,975    47,607    51 677    57.933    66,145    69,215
Less: Experes Capitatized                 1,094     1,215      1,709      1.980     2,431     2,840      3,077     3,382      3.588     4,005      4.267     4.480
Depreciation                              1,335      1,489     1,610      2.228     2,690     3,177      3,553     3.964      4.386     5.214      6.043     6.444
o ... ....... ....... ....... ... ....... ....... ....... ........  . ....  ....  . ....  ....  ----.   ----
Total Operating Expenses                   18.946    22.350    24,605    29.607    34.45U7    40,270    44,451    48,188    S2,474    59,142    67,921    71.179
Ad). tor prev. yrs.                         103        256       319          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
Foreign Exd,w n   Losses                                                      0         0         0         32        167       149       134        119       104
Not Incocm before Interest                  2,984      4,026     5.181     6,896      8,454    10.643    i3,084    13.996    14,649    15,808    17.793    18.816
Interest for the Tear                       3,813     4,766      6.154     7,459      8,226     9,116    10,317    11,875    13,197    14,483    15,749    16,864
Les": Interest Durfng Construction    1,224       1.638      1.9.4     2,016      2,132     2.129      2,709     3,475      4.051     3,60S      3.210     3,842             X
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                                  ....  .    ....      ---- .     ----.. ..... .. ..... ..... ... ..... ..... .. ..... .....
Interest on Long-terom Debt                 2,589     3,128      4,180     5,443      6,094     6,987      7.609     8,400      9.146    10.878    12,539    13.022
net Income                                    39f       898      1,001      1,453     2,360     3.656      5,476     5,596      5,703     4,930      5.254     5.794
/1  Rs. 1700 willIon Is required In addition to the subsidy slready provided for in the 91-92 state budget to meet the covenanted 3.5X rate of return.



IIDIA
Seem muwRSaM PAM PIoJECT
...@.@^@@ .w* @...w............
I'S   tl  ad Forecat alatm   Stmts
.........................................
(s Mitllion)
(As an Mmdc 31)                   1963   1959/90  1990/71  191/92  199293  1993/95  19949   1995/96  199697  199IM            199699  1999/00
Ei...                          .. ..  Actult ......... IEstimted  I...ore..a-..                          Forsat.
AMETS:
*    imed Asset
FIxed Ae   n Svice            41.890   47.7M    56.26   66,666   B5.041   96.514  l16.509  119.960  130,657  167.305  178,027  190,200
Lo: Accimtlted  prciotion           6,907   10G44    12.092   14,320   17.010   20.187   23.740   27,704   32,090   37,304   43.348   49,792
....     ....     ....     ....  .  ....              ....   .  ....     ....  .  ....     ....  .  .... ........ ..... ..... ..... ..... ..
nt Fixed As#ts In Service           32,96    3r.277   46,534   54,366   68,031   76.326   82,769   92,276   96,56T  130,000  134.679  140.08
Work In Progrss                     19,519   24.202   25,57   25.440   22,949   27,036   38.182   46.620   54.085   36,085   44,7       54,716
otbaw I    t                           69       158      91        91       91       91       91       91       9 91               91 
Total Fixed Assets                52.571   61.637   72,152   79,897   91,07   103453  121,042  13,987  152,743  166,176  179,509  195.216
CwOrt Asset
Casklash                ^^411                  613       m        961      531      690      792      229      549       395      702      334
Fuc  Store                          349      256       263      369      459      541      593      653      693       77       818      859
Capital Store                      1.937    2.670    2,68     3,434    4,2S2    4,826    5,325    5,999    6,533    8,365    3,901    9,S10
total Stocks                        2.286    2,926    2 951    3.803    4.711    5.366    5.918    6,6S2    7,226    914    9 719   10,369
wtor Revables                       5.962    6,797    9,27      8,813    8,766   10,420   11,801   12.793   13.556   1.426   17,652   18.540
Adnnes tostaff                        lrl       191      212      249      265      321      3S9      398       439      480      524      572
Loat I Advences                      1,623 1,909    2,061    2,318    2,550    2,762    2,964    3,162    3.355    3.S23    3,699    3,884
other  weclvbles                    2,547    2,823    3,120    3 509    3,660    4.181    4,48f    4,787    5,079    5,333    5,599    5,879
ReceivblsfrmGM                        8ol81 1,419        39     1,700        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                               -      ....      . ....... ...... ...... ...... ... ...I
Total Currwnt Assets              13,901   16.677   19.290   21,354   20,704   23,741   26,320   28,021   30,5e3   34,300   37,895   39,578
TOTAL ASSETS                       66,472   78,515   91,43   101,250   il1,M    127,194  147.362  167,008  183.247  200,476  217,40   234,7
EQUITY AND LIMILITIES:
Consumer Contributione              3,074    3,927    5,095    S,608    7,364    8.753    9,913   10,746   11,639   12,958   14,628   15,574
Retained EImin(Los)                  1,789    2691    3,576    5,030    7,389   11,046   16,522   22,117   27,820   32,751   38,005   43,799
GrutsS                                  5       11       24        24       24       24       24       24       24        24       24       24
.... ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                  -      ....     ---- .   .... ... ..... ..... ..... ....... ..... ........ 
Total Equity                      4,868    6,630    6,696   10,662   14,77    19,823   26,459   32,887   39,483   45,732   52,657   59,397
Low Twr Liabilities
.....................
GI  Low ; a                        34,015   37,182   42,630   47.193   51,354   55,829   60,539   65,382   70,460   75,901   81,857   68,362
Other Louts                         18,14'   22,659   27,126   28,951   30,659   34,592   41,80    48,855   52,021   55,642   57,188   60,398
Totol Long-term Loam              52,156   59.841   69,757   76,14   862,013   90,421  102.371  114 238  122,480  131,543  139,0I 5  140,760
Les: Current Maturites             1.945    3,184    2,863    3,528    3,941    4,441    4,547    5.476    4885    6,604    6,979    6,979
*---    .@-.    ....  ....    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ----  ....            f
Long-tern Llabilities             50,211   56,656   66,954   72,617   78,073   85,960   97,825  108,762  117,595  124,939  132,066  141,781                        X
Cewrent Liabilities
................... 
Camunr Deposits                      1,7      2,092    2,557    2,671    3,506    4,168    4,721    5,117    S,542    6,170    7,061    7,416
Cnsuer Psaybles                     3,005    3,457    4,137    4,689    3,686    4.344    4,756    5,104    5,489    6,267    7,139    7,353
Current Maturities of L.T.eebt       1,945    3.184    2,803    3,528    3,941    4,44     4,547    5,476    4,885    6,604    6,979    6,979
other Sbwrt-term Liabilities        4,64      6,496    6,297    7,084    7,792    8,439    9,055    9,662   10,251   10,764   11,302   11,867
....     ....     ....     ....  .  ....     ....   .  ....     ....  .  ....     ....  .  ....     ..... ....... .. ....... .. .......
Total Currant Liabilities         11,394   15,229   15,793   17,972   18,925   21,391   23,078   25,359   26,168   29,805   32,481   33,616
TOTMAL 1I     AM LIABILITIES       66,472   78,515   91,443  101.250  111,M    127,194  147,362  167,008  183,247  200,476  217,404  234,793
s _ _____ _ s _ nSsuuuuuuau8uSau_aa3u33a3u   .3.333u22u.mas __ a3uazuu3uu2uUu..au3



MUEBS Actual an1oeat ore1ndApialaG                fFad
(Is Nition)
Fiscal Tear wAndg                                                                                                                                8th Plam  Totat
Narth 31                           196813   1989/9   1990/9   199/92  1992193  I99/94  1994/95  1995/9   1996/97  1997/98  1999   1999/00  1992/97 1992/0
intesltnns
Hat Income                             3        696    1,001    1,453    2 360    3,656    5,4716   5,596    5.70        4.930    5,254    5.794  22,79   38,769
*   Add:inte  Q4 an Lo-tm gtge bt         2.5so    3 126    4,180    5,443    6 094    6.967    7,609    8.400    9,146   10.876    2.539   13.022  38.236  74,675
Dsp  tlatln                      1.335    1,489    1.610    2,225    2,690    3,177    3,553    3,964    4,386    5.214    6.043    6,444  17,77   35.472
Adjustmmnte/F.E.Lossas;            (17)      (35)     (14)       0        0         0       32      167       149      134      119      104      348     704
Commit cmntributiona I6 grats      721      86      1.161      513    1,755    1.389    1.160       833       893    1.318    1,870      746   6,031   9.966
*         ~~~~Totatl ntewna Soresm         5,023    6.4        ,5       ,3     12,899       I521   7.830   18.959   20.277   22.475   25.825   26,110  65,175 159.565
GM tuo                               3,73     3,493    s,8a2    4,96      4,620    4.M7    5.249    5,444    5,730    6,332    7,054    7.827  26,016  47,230
133 loa                                                             0       372    1.224    2,S56    3,377    2.477       848        0         0  10, 014  10 863
PFC borroniqe                                   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~1,730    1.900    2,09  2,300    2,530    2,78  3,050    3,350    3,610 11, 600  2,8
Export                      6,968t                         0         0      579    3.262       213        0        0        0        0   4.053   4.053
Qtlwr bonowings          6.%B    6.136    7,276    2,480    2,505    3,483    2.963    4,683    2.583    3,583    3,583    5,083  16,237  28486
Tofta go. rroup                10.0      960 13,101    919          9,6   12,34    16,359   16,247   13,570   13,614   13,967   16,59   67,920 112,311
Chmigs In Currant LIabilities         (281)   2,596      946    1,454       541    1,966    1,581    1,351    1,l00    1,919    2,301    1,135   6,839  12,193
MOAL SUKE  OF ltINS1546                  8,6   22,004   20,281   22,836   29,524   35,770   36.55    3527 3,0               214 4,3          5.34 284,08
*APPLICATION OF KiSS
Capital EJqaanltures
Chuqandai 7                            0        0        0         0      574    1,892    3,424    4,410    2,346    1,663         0         012,645  14,308
UWC Lin                                0        0        0         0       19      300    1,241    1,333       78        65        0         003,676  3,741
*     Vc Teruinas                           0         0        0        0        42      645    2,461    2,630    1,218       430        0        0   7,017   7,448
Distribuiton Reinforcement             0        0        0         0      363       744    1,162    1,613    2,083        0         0        6   5,964   5,964
Total Proposed Project               0        0         0        0      997    3,581    8,269   10,006    6,431    2.158          0        0  29304  31,461
Other Plan Ouatlaws                7,456    8,879   10,253    7,956    9,512    8,626    6,921    7,204    6,436   11,661   14,941   17,083  4'0,699  84,386
Psp Energlzation                       0        0         0        0    1,224    1,224    1,224    1,224    1,22.4   1,224    1,224    1, 224   6,119   9,790
i.D.C.                             1,224    1,638    1,9740   2,016    2,132    2,129    2,70       3,475    4,051    3.605    3,210    3,842  14,496  25,15S3
total Capital hxpendlttares          860 10.517   12.227    9,972   13,868   15,560   21,142   21,906   18,142   18,648   19,37S   22,151  90,617 150,791
Ch*W In -t~ .rret Assets             2,088    2,574    2,454    1,87       (220)   2,877    2,477    2,264    2,163    3,950    3,288    2,051   9,561  16,851
Interest on Long-term Debt           2,589    3,128    4,180O    5,443    6,094    6,967    7,609    8,400    9,1"    10,876   12,539  .13,022  38,236  74,675
Reainewnt of Iowan                   1,944    1,945    3.124    2,803    3,528    3,941    4,441    4,547    5.476    4,885    6,604    6,979  21,93   40,400 
Total Debt Service             4,533    5,073    7,364    8,246    9,621   10,928   12,049   12,947   14,622   15,763   19,142   20,001  60,160 115,075
Others
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            15,301   18,164   22,045   20,093   23,266   29,364   35,668   37,120   34,927   38,361   41,806   44,203  160,346 284,716
INCREASE 10 tIASH                146      402       (41)     109     (430)      160      101     (563)     319      (154)     307     (369)   (412)   (627)
CASN AT BEGIIWNIU OF TEAR        265      411       813      77       961       531      690      79       229       549      395      70    3,203   4,849
CASN ATENI)OFTEVW                411       813      77       961       531      690      792      229      549       395      70       334   2,791   4,222



- 84 -
Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
SECOND HAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Assumptions Followed for Financial Proiections
Price Escalation and Exchange Rate
Inflation
Year        Local      Foreign        Exchange Rate
US$1-
1992/93     10.02       3.7Z            Re. 26.7
1993/94      8.3Z       3.7Z            Rs. 28.6
1994/95      7.32       3.7Z            Re. 30.2
1995/96      6.72       3.7Z            Rs. 31.5
1996/97      6.12       3.72            Re. 32.6
1997/98      5.02       3.72            Rs. 33.7
1998/99      5.02       3.72            Rs. 34.8
1999/00      5.02       3.72            Re. 35.9
Income Statement
Revenues
1.          Average Tariff.  Projected to increase by 201 in FY 92-93 as a
result of the tariff adjustment implemented as of June 1, 1992 and enable MSEB
to achieve the net cash generation targets of 202 in FY 93/94 and 302
thereafter.
2.          Other Revenues.  Include meter rentals and revenues from other
sources than sales of electricity. It is projected to grow at the same pace
as sales of electricity.
3.          Subsidies and Grants.  Represent subsidy paid by GOM to enable
MSEB to earn a covenanted return after interest on its capital base.
4.          Other Income.  Includes interest rec'%ved, and revenues from
miscellaneous transactions. It is projected to grow in line with sales of
electricity.
8se8
Fuel Cost.  Includes the cost of coal, fuel oil, and natural gas
consumed by thermal stations.  Calculated on the basis of the generation plan
for each plant and the specific fuel consumption.  Future fuel cost estimates
per kWh of thermal generation at constant 1992/93 prices, are as followst
1992/93     Ps. 43.27          1996/97      Ps. '41.19
1993/94     Ps. 41.47          1997198      Ps. 41.19
1994/95     Ps. 41.19          1998/99      Ps. 41.19
1995/96     Ps. 41.19          1999/00      Ps. 41.19



- 85 -
Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 3
Given that MSEB's tariffs include a fuel cost adjustment clause, the
projections assume that any increase, in real terms, in the price of fuel
would be passed on to the consumers through an increase in tariffs and would
have no impact on MSEB's net operating income.
6.          Consumables.  Include generation costs other than fuel cost, lease
rent, personnel and maintenance. Projected to increase in line with
generation and inflation.
7.          Purchase of Power.  Calculated on the basis of purchases f_m
Tata, NTPC, other States, and the Atomic Energy Commission, at the present
price for each of these sources. The average cost of energy purchased at
1992193 prices is as follows:
1992/93     Ps.  93.38         1996/97     Ps. 104.30
1993/94     Ps   96.13         1997/98     Ps. 109.60
1994/95     Ps.  98.40         1998/99     Ps. 120.50
1995/96     Ps. 100.90         1999100     Ps. 120.50
As a result of the introduction of a power purchase adjustment clause in
MSEB's tariffs in June 1992, it is assumed that any increase, in real terms,
in the cost of purchased power will be outomatically passed on to the
consumers and thus have no impact on MSEB's net operating income.
8.          Lease Rent.  The lease rent is the rent paid by MSEB to GOMID for
operations of the hydro plants owned by GOMID. It is estimated on the basis
of a constant annuity equivalent to the construction cost at an 8Z interest
over 30 years.
9.          Wages and Salaries.  Include all fringe benefits.  It is assumed
that the wage bill will increase by 4.0X per annum plus local inflation.
10.         General Administration.  Includes insurance, rents, transportation
and communications. Proiected to increase in line with local inflation.
11.         Repair and Maintenanre.  Projected to increase at 5? of gross
fixed assets at the beginning o. the fiscal year.
12.         Other Expenses.  Include interest on consumer deposits, other
debts, and extraordinary items.  It is projected to increase in line with
local inflation.
13.         Expenses Capitalized.  Represent the value of capital investment
implemented by MSEB's own staff.  It includes mainly investment in
distribution and sub-stations. It is projected to increase in line with
generation and local inflation. Correspe ing consumption of production
factors is included in working expenses.
14.         Depreciation.  Depreciation is calculated in accordance with the
Electricity (Supply) Act on a linear basis, at a rate of 3.5? per annum.



- 86 -
Annex 4.4
Page 3 of 3
15.         Interest for the Year.  Represents interest applicable to the
sources of borrowing calculated as follows for new loanss
GOM                      11.75?
IBRD                     16.75?
PFC                      16.75?
Export credit            12.00?
Other borrowings         12-202
For GOM loans, interest for the year are interest accrued, and do not
correspond to interest actually paid.
16.         Interest During Construction.  Includes the percentage of interest
accrued (but not necessarily payable) to be added to Work in Progress, and to
be capitalized when work is completed. The percentage is calculated in
accordance with the Electricity (Supply) Act provision, approximately as the
ratio of accumulated Works in Progress to Gross Fixed Assets financed from
other sources than Equity or Consumer Deposits. Projected Interest During
Construction is calculated based on MSEB's investment plan and investment
financing plan.
Balance Sheet
17.         Work in Progress.  Calculated as the balance between additions to
WIP for the year based on estimated project implementation schedule, and
transfer to fixed assets at the end of the fiscal year of completed projects.
18.         Consumer Payables.  Projected as 2 months of consumption of fuel,
consumable, and power purchased.
19.         Consumer Contributions.  Include connection charges.  Projected to
remain at present level of 2.1 months of electricity sales.
20.         Consumer Deposits.  Include consumers' guarantee deposits.
Projected to remain at their present level of 1 month of electricity sales.
21.         Other Short-term Liabilities.  Projected to increase in line with
local inflation.
22.         Fuel Stores.  Projected as 0.4 month of fuel cost.
23.         Capital Stores.  Projected to remain at their present level of 0.6
month of gross fixed assets.
24.         Loans and Advances.  Projected to increase in line with local
inflation.
25.         Advances to Staff.  Projected to remain at the present level af
0.5 month of the wage bill.
26.         Receivables.  Customer receivables are projected to remain at
MSEB's target level of 2.5 months of sales. Other receivables are estimated
to increase in line with local inflation.



- 87 -
INDIA                                Annex 5.1
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
............. ....................... ....... ......
Western Region: Past and Projected Power and Energy Demand
..........................................................
Average rate of growth
1981/82     1990/91     1994/95    1999/2000                (K p.a.)
a/     (Estimated) (Projected) (Projected)     1981/90  1990/94  1990/99
1. Peak Load (KW)
Gujarat b/                  1,626       3,661        4,849       6,747           9X       7X        7X
Madhya Pradesh              1,107       2.919        4,030       5,716         It        at       8X
Maharashtra c/              3,078       6,183        8,230      11,529           8X       7X       7X
Total                  5,811      12,763       17,109      23,992           9X       8X       7X
Peak Availability d/        5,811       11,542       14247       22349           8X      5         8X
Deficit: in MW             0        1221        2,862       1,643
as% of Load                           10X          17X          7X
2. Energy Requirement (GUh)
Gujarat                     9,458      22,456       29,754      41,402          10X       7X       7X
Madhya Pradesh              5,892       17,725      24,391      34,757          13K       8X        8K
Maharashtra                17,525      38,748       51,634      72,363           9X       7X        7X
Total e/              32,875      84,267      111,944     155,948          11X       7X       7X
Energy Avallability d/     32,875      79,529      101,764     147,022          10K       6X        7X
Deficit in Gwh             0       4,738       10,180       8,926                   21K        7X
as X of Requirement           0           6X           9X          6K
a/ Data for 1981/82 reflec. consrmption rather than power ard energy demands.
No data are available on the extent of umet load or the amount of uiserved energy.
b/  Includes Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
c/  Includes Goa, Daman and Diu.
d/ Availability figures are taken from the anticipated power supply position based on a synchronisation
programme of 23,308 MW for all India 1990/91-1994/95. For 1999/2000, the availability figures are
based on a very optimistic Ninth Plan programme of 46,733 NW.
e/  This total includes the requirement from captive power plants in the region. CEA
estimates continued generation from captive plants, but excludes this from energy
requirement.
Source:   Fourteenth Electric  Power Survey of India, CEA, March 1991.



INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Western Region: Electricity Consumtaion By Consumer Category
Average rate of growth
1981/82    Share   1990/91    Share    1991/92       Share    1994/95       siare
(Glh)        (X)   (GUh)         (X)    (Gh)           (X)    (Glh)       (X)                   CX p.a.
(Expected)          (Projected)           (Projected)              1981/90         1990/94
............ .....  ...................  . ,............. ....   ...................   ..... ......    ............. 
Consumer Category
1. Domestic                  3.257     112       9,812     16X        10.955     16X        14,927      18X           13X              11X
2.  CommerciaL               1.639      6X       3,694      6X         3.965      62         4.843      6X             9X               72
3. Industrial
LT                    2,606       92      4,815       8X        5,146      82          6,213      72             72              72
NT                   15,489      532     26, 152     422       27,602     412         34.239     40X             6%              7X
Total Industrial        18.096     622     30.967      492       32,748      482        40,452     482             62              7X 2
4.  Public Lighting            303      12         530      1X           567      12           693       12            62               7X                        co
5.  Traction                 1,068      42       2,092      32        2.304       3%         2,726      32             82               7X
6.  Agriculture              3.787     132      13,973     222        15.136     222        18,705     222            162              82
7.  Public Water               738      32       1,520      22         1.658      22         2,123      32             82              9X
8.  Bulk Supplies              259      1X         308    0.5%          328    0.52            396    0.52             22              62
Total a/               29,147    1002      62,896    100X        67,661    1002         84,865    1002             9X              82
a/ These are actual sales and differences with figures for energy availability in Table 1
reflect technical and non-technical losses.
Sources:  Fourteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, March 1991.                                                                                              U'



- 89 -                         Anne= 5.3
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Least-Cost Analysis
Comparison of the Economic Cost of aneration
1.    Chandragur Unit 7 - Net Generationt 2,768 GWh per annum
Re per kWh         Notes
a.  Capacity Charge   0.37      Re. 18,000/kW, 25-year litetime, ext. of existing
plant
b.  Fuel               0.26     0.65 kg/kWh, Rs.369/ton auxiliary consumption 10Z
c.  Oil Support        0.06     10/ml/kWh, Rs.5.0 per litre, auxiliary consumtion 10Z
d.  O&M                0.07     2.5Z of total capital cost
e.  Transmission       0.11     3OZ of station capital cost
f.  T.D losses         0.02     3Z cf generation
Total            .90
2.    Load-Center Coal Station - Net Generation: 2,768 GWh per annum
Rs/ kWh             Notes
a.  Capital Charge    0.42       Rs.20,000/kU, 25-year life
b.  Fuel               0.58      0.65 kg/kWh, Rs 816 per tonne (movement of coal 1200
km) auxiliary consumption 1OZ
c.  Oil Support        0.06      As l(c)
d.  O&M                0.08      As l(d)
e.  Transmission       0.02      5? station cost
f.  T&D Losses         0.01      1Z of generation
Total          1.17
3.    Combined Cycle Gas Station - Net Generation: 2,768 GWh per annum
Rs/ kWh              Notes
a.  Capital Charge    0.48       Rs 20,0001kW, 15 year life time
b.  Fuel               0.49      0.203 m3/kWh, Rts 2.400/m3, aux. consumption 2?
c.  O&M                0.10      As l(d)
d.  Transmission       0.02      5? of station cost
f.  T&D Losses         0.G1     1U
Total          1.10



-90-                           Annex 5.4
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Coomarative Cost Analysis of HVDC and 800-kVA Options
HVDC       800-kV AC
Double Circuit
Capital Costs (Rs. Million) a/                               8,400        16,000
Maximum Evacuation Capacity (MW)                             1,650          4,000
Evacuation required (MW)
FY1096-2002                                               1,500         1,500
FY2002 onward                                             3,000         3,000
Additional Capital Cost in FY 2001-2 (Rs. Million)           5.600              0
Operating and Maintenance Cost (Rs. million/yr) bI
FY1096-2002                                                 168           320
FY2002 onward                                               280           320
Present value of total costs (Rs. million)                  13,119        18,699
a/     Based on MSEB and CEA cost estimates
b/     Taken at 22 of total capital cost



-91 .                           Annex 5.S
INDIA
SECOND MUBARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Western Regiont Average Power Prices by State and Union Territory
1984/85        1990/91          Real Increases in Prices   Proportion
1984/85 to 1990/91         LRHC
State/Union          Current   Current 1984185
Territory            Prices    Prices   Prices a/        X              X . .a       I(X) d/
Gujarat b/             65         85        56         -14.0           - 2.5           48
Madhya Pradesh          54        83        55         + 1.9           + 0.3           46
Miharashtra c/          47       110        72         +53.0           + 7.4           64
Goa, Daman & Diu       53         97        64         +20.8           + 3.2          56
Western Retion          54        99        65         +20.4           + 3.1           57
a/    Deflated using an index of wholesale prices.  Official estimates from Ministry of
Industry.
bI    Includes Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
cl    Figures above are different than for 1S4B since these data also reflect sales by
Tata Electric Companies, Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply and Bombay Electricity
Supply and Transport (a publicly-owned distribution utility in Bombay).
d/    LTIPS estimates.
Source:  Estimates prepared by CIA.



- 92 _
Annex 5.6
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Western Region: Average Power Prices by Main Consumer CategorY
1984/85        1990/91         Real Increases in Prices  Proportion  LRMC
1984/85 to 1990/91         LRMC    (90/91)
Main Consumer   Current   Current  1984185
Category        Prices    Prices   Prices          Z           .    g.a.       (2) cl
Domestic           46        56        37       - 19.6          - 3.6          24       230
Coumercial         71       133        88       + 23.9          + 3.6          64       209
Industry           60       137        90       + 50.0          + 7.0         100       137
Agriculture        23        18        12       - 48.0          -10.3          10        190
Other b/           58       115        76       + 31.0          + 4.6          55       209
Western Region    54         99        65       + 20.4          + 3.1          57       175
3/    Deflated using an index of wholesale prices.  Official estimates from Ministry of
Industry.
b/    Comprisess  public lighting, public water pumping, bulk supplies to distribution
utilities and inter-region sales.
c/    LTIPS estimates.
Source:   Estimates prepared by CEA.



- 93 _
Annex 5.7
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Estimated Economic Costs of Autopeneration
Cost per kW of Capacity (Rs.)
50 kW Machine        200-400 kW Machine
1.    Fixed Costs
Capital Cost a/                         4,380                    3,757
Annual Charge bl                          645                      553
Salaries                                  600                      404
Routine Maintenace                        120                       76
Total Annual Fixed Costs                1,365                    1,033
2.    Variable Costs                           Cost per kWh Generated (Paise)
Diesel Fuel c/                            182                      154
Lubricant                                   6                        4
Total Variable Costs                      188                      158
3.    Average Cost of Generation  d/            292                      237
a/    Retail price, less taxes and duties, shadow priced using the SCF of 0.8
b/    Assuming a 15-year life and a 122 discount rate.
c/    Using the CIF cost of Rs. 5.5 per litre for diesel (based on a CIP price of
US$ 222 per metric ton) and 0.33 lit./kWh consumption for a 50 kW generators
and 0.28 lit./kWh for a 200-400 kW machine.
d/    Assuming a 15? load factor.



- 94 -
Annex 5.7
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POVER PROJECT
Estimated Costs of Diesel and Electric Pumping
Cost per kW of Capacity (Rs.)
Electric                Diesel
Motor/Engine Size (KW/H.P.)                    5 a/                     7
Pump lifetime (years)                         15                       10
Pump Capital Cost (Rs)                     5,074                   9,092
Annual Charge (Rs)                           747                    1,613
O&M Costs (Rs)                               814                   2,286
Costs of Diesel Fuel (Rs/hour)                -                    13.12
Annual Diesel Costs (Rs)                                          10,560
Costs of Electricity (paise/KWh)             mXX
Annual Electricity Cost (Rs)             2,984(XmX) c/
Total Annual Cost                    1,561 + 2,984 (XXX)          14,459
Cost of electricity at which costs of electric pumping
are the same as the costs of diesel pumping:
Paise XXXIkWh - (14,459 - 1,561)/2,984
- 432
a/    1 H.P. - 0.746 kW.
b/    Using a CIF price of high-speed diesel of Rs. 5.50 per litre, consumption
of 2.4 litres per hour and operation for 800 hours per year.
cl    2,984 - 5 x 0.746 x 800.



Annex 5.8
Page 1 of 2
INLIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Estimated Financial Costs of Autogeneration
Cost per kW of Capacity (Rs.)
---------------------------------------
50 kW Machine        200-400 kW Machine
1.    Fixed Costs
Capital Cost a/                       6,300                    5,400
Annual Charge bI                        925                      793
Salaries                                750                      505
Routine Maintenace                      150                       95
Total Annual Fixed Costs              1,825                    1,393
2.    Variable Costs                          Cost per kWh Generated (Paise)
Diesel Fuel c/                          197                      167
Lubricant                                 7                        5
Total Variable Costs                    204                      172
3.   Average Cost of Generation  d/           343                      278
a/   Retail price plus handling and installation.
bI   Assuming a 15-year life and a 12Z discount rate.
c/   Using a cost of Rs. 5.96 per litre for diesel and 0.33 lit./kWh consumption
for a 50-kW generator and 0.28 lit./kWh for a 200-400 kW machine.
d/   Assuming a 15Z load factor.



- 96 -
Annex 5.8
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Estimated Fiaancial Costs of Diesel and Electric Pumpina
Cost per kV of Capacity (Rs.)
Electric                 Diesel
Motor/Engine Size (MW/H.P.)                     S a/                      7
Pump lifetime (years)                          15                        10
Pump Capital Cost (Rs)                      4,440                    11,365
Annual Charge (Rs)                            652                     2,011
O&M Costs (Rs)                              1,017                     2,857
Costs of Diesel Fuel (Rsihour)                -                        14.3
Annual Diesel Costs (Rs)                                             11,443
Costs of Electricity (paise/KWh)             XXX                        -
Annual Electricity Cost (Rs)             2,984(XXX) c/                  -
Total Annual Cost                    1,669 + 2,984 (XXX)            16,311
Cost of electricity ac which costs of electric pumping
are the same as the costs of diesel pumpings
Paise XXX/kWh - (16,311 - 1,669)/2,984
- 491
a/    1 B.P. - 0.746 kW.
b/    Using a retail price of high-speed diesel of Rs. 5.96 per litre,
consumption of 2.4 litres per hour and operation for 800 hours per year.
cl    2,984 - 5 x 0.746 x 800.



- 97 -
Annex 5.9
Page 1 cf 3
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Valuation of Economic Benefits fcr Each Consumer Category
Methodology
1.          The benefits of electricity supply were estimated on the basis of
incremental electricity sales. In financial analysis incremental sales were
valued at the utilities' tariff revenues from various consumer categories.
This was also the starting point in the economic evaluation and yielded rates
of return from 3-102 in the Western Region program analysis. These returns
reflect the relatively low level of tariffs rather than the economic merit of
the program. It was therefore necessary to value the economic benefits of
electricity more accurately. The valuation was undertaken in two parts: (a)
first the shares of fuel substitution due to and energy consumption induced by
incremental electricity supply were estimated; and (b) second, sales replacing
t--e use of alternative energy sources were valued at the resulting economic
resource cost saving (ERCS) while induced sales were valued by estimating
industrial, commercial, residential and agricultural consumers' willingness to
pay for this incremental energy consumption.
2.          The economic benefit of fuel substitution is the resulting
economic resource cost saving (ERCS). That is the economic cost of
alternative energy (e.g. captive diesel generators and diesel engine driven
pumps in agriculture), which the country saves by using electricity instead.
These benefits are shown in Annex 5.7. For each consumer category, the
portion of incremental electricity supply valued at ERCS depends on the
consumption patterns on consumers of their alternative sources of energy: 50?
for industrial and commercial consumers, 102 for dc,mestic and 20? for
agricultural consumers, as detailed in paras. 5-9 below.
3.          Induced consumption (50X for industrial and commercial consumers,
90? for domestic and 80 for agriculture) was valued by estimating the
consumers' willingness to pay for this rart of incremental electricity supply
and adding the related consumer surplus benefits to the utilities' tariff
revenues from these consumer categories.  Present excess demand indicates that
consumers' willingness to pay for public electricity exceeds existing tariff
levels. Willingness to pay for the induced consumption is related to the
financial costs of their alternative supply. The financial costs to the
consumers of the main alternative sources of energy (diesel generators for
industrial, residential and commercial consumers and diesel pumps for
agriculture) are shown in Annex 5.8. This provided the maximum or upper limit
of the willingness to pay and consumer surplus benefits.
1      Consumer surplus is defined as the difference between what
consumers would be willing to pay for their electricity supply and what they
actually pay.



- 98 -
Arnex 5.9
Page 2 of 3
4.          Given the sensitivity of demand to price for the various
categories of consumers, it was assumed that only a proportion (in the base
case 50a for Andustrial, commercial and other consumers, 302 for residential
and agriculture) of the maximum consumer surplus benefits were used in the
valuation of induced sales. Therefore, for each consumer category this
assumed proportion of the difference between the maximum willingness to pay
and the prevailing financial tariff was calculated, added to the financial
tariff and then shadow priced using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8.
This yields the total economic benefit of induced consumption. For the two
sensitivity analyses, lower proportions are assumed, including one in which
consumer surplus benefits were excluded and only the prevailing economic
tariff was taken as the economic value of induced consumption.
Industrial Consumers
5.          For industrial consumers, it was assumed that in the absence of
grid supply, there would be substantial generation using alternative sources
of supply, namely diesel generators. G4ven the relatively small difference
between the financial costs of diesel generation and grid supply and the
relatively low price elasticity of demand of industrial consumers (estimated
at -0.50 under the Bank's LTIPS study), it was assumed thatt
(a)   about 5OX of the incr#mental electricity supply would replace diesel
generation. Thereforu, 50X the additional generation for this category
was valued at the economic resource savings. i.e. the economic cost of
autogeneration (Annex 5.7, page 1); and
(b)   the balance 50Z of incremental sales was assumed to be induced
consumption. The base case assumes a linear demand curve and accordingly
takes consumer eurplus at 50Z of the full financial cost of
autogeneration (Annex 5.8, page 1). Sensitivity case 1 and 2 assumed a
strongly convex demand curve (302 consumer surplus) and no consumer
surplus, respectively.
Commercial Consumers
6.          For commercial consumers, the same assumptions on proportions of
economic resource savings and induced consumption were used as for industrial
consumers. However, it was assumed that commercial consumers would use smaller
50 kW diesel generators for their autogeneration (page 1 in Annex 5.7 and
Annex 5.8 give the corresponding economic and financial costs).
Domestic Consumers
7.          For domestic consumers, it was assumed that only about 102 of the
incremental electricity sales would be for the replacement of kerosene or
diesel. The low share corresponds to the current use of kerosene for lighting
by domestic consumers and would also be the upper limit for diesel generator
use. The cost of autogeneration is based on large diesel generator sets of 50
kW capacity. Page 1 in Annex 5.7 gives the corresponding economic costs. It
is emphasized that these assumptions are conservative:
(a) the cost of kerosene lighting per kWh equivalent of electricity far
exceeds the cost of diesel generation. Had the calculation been based



- 99 _
Annex 5.9
Page 3 of 3
on kerosene lighting, the derived value of electricity in residential
use would have been significantly higher; and
(b) Given the low levels of individual consumption, consumers would need to
get together and use cooperative sets to achieve these low captive
generation costs in practice. (This has in fact been observed in the
Eastern Region). Use of smaller diesel (or gasoline or kerosene)
gernerators would result in higher unit costs.
8.          The balance 902 of additional supply was assumed for induced
consumption and was valued by estimatinu O'he willingness to pay for this
supply.  Page 1 in Annex 5.8 gives the . esponding financial costs.  Given
the wide disparity between the cost of autogeneration and prevailing
residential tariffs, the base case analysis assumes a convex demand curve and
accordingly takes consumer surplus of only 302 of the financial cost of
autogeneration. For the two sensitivity analyses, consumer surplus was
entirely excluded and the prevailing economic tariff was taken as the
willingness to pay.
Agricultural Consumers
9.          The Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) has observed that the
number of pumpsets goes up by a factor of 5 when electricity becomes
available. Therefore it was assumed that 20T of incremental sales to
agriculture will be for replacement of diesel pumps and was valued at ERCS
(page 2 in Annex 5.7). The Bank's Long Term Issues in the Power Sector study
estimates price elasticity for agricultural electricity consumers to be -0.25,
confirming agricultural electricity consumption to be relatively insensitive
to price. Given the wide disparity between the price of agricultural
electricity (typically below Rs. 0.20/kVh) and the cost of electricity at
,which the costs of electric pumping would equal the costs of diesel-driven
pumps (estimated to be close to Rs. SIkVh, page 2 in Annex 5.8), even using
this low price elasticity, consumption of electricity in pumping at tariff
rates approaching Re. 5/kWh is estimated to be only a small fraction (even
less than 20Z) of the current consumption, in line with REC's empirical
experience.
10.         The balance 80X of additional electricity supply to agriculture
was assumed for induced consumption. Page 2 in Annex 5.8 gives the
corresponding financial costs. This induced consumption was valued by
estimating the willingness to pay for this supply. Although low price
elasticity has been observed, again given the wide disparity between the costs
of diesel and electric pumping, the base case analysis assumes a strongly
convex demand curve and accordingly takes consumer surplus benefits at 30? of
the estimated maximum, the financial cost of autogeneration. For the two
sensitivity analyses, consumer surplus was entirely excluded and the
prevailing economic tariff was taken as the willingness to pay.



- 100 -
Annex 5.10
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Program Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 below presents the economic value of incremental supply to
each consumer category and the weighted average for the Western Region as a
whole, with the commensurate ERRs in the program analysis.
Table 1
Average Value of Benefits and ERRS for the Western Region Program Analysis
-----------------------------------------------------------__----------------
Category   Consumption  Benefits       Benefits   Benefits       Benefits
Share (Z) Economic Tariff Base Case Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity 2
Domestic     12            62            132          70            70
Commercial    8           146            242         225           200
Industry     50           151            202         191           174
Agriculture  22            20            189          98            98
Other         8           127            198         1;75          166
100 Averages 106            194         158           146
EIRRs    3Z            152         112          9.5Z



- 101 -
INDIA                                  AnnMW  5.10
Page 2 of 2
SECOND MAHARASNTRA POWER PROJECT
, ...... ...... ........
Program Anltysts
................
(Rupees Nllion)
Fiscal
Year                                                                         INCREMENTAL        NET
Ending                 CAPITAL COSTt                      OPERATING COSTS      REVEL-US       BENEFIT
Cool    Hydro   Puwp         G         T&D      OSM    FUEL      Bse Case        Bss Case
storage
1992          473        0         0       90       338        3                                    (904)
1993        1,420      125         0    2,926    2.683        30                                  (7,184)
1994        2,367      687        56    5,555    5,199        82      491           1,824        (12,613)
995         6,674    1,436       169   10.779   11,435       287   1,570            5,862        (26,487)
1996       13,468    1,749       337   14,496   18,030       664   1,570            5,898        (44,415)
199I       16,928    1,749       337   21,616   24,378       908   2.423           14,052        (54,286)
1998       15,975    1,998       381   16,630   20,990    1,647   5.969            28,560        (35,031)
1999       11,331    3,123       468    9,218   14,484    2,609  10,023            40,489        (10,767)
2000        7,863    3,997       937    5,797   11,156    3,293  13,004            55,105          9,059
2001        4,163    2,311       937    2,420    5,898    4,039   15,109           66.052         31,176
2002        2,m        312       625        0    2,227    4,268  16,923             74,305        47,175
2003                                                        4,718  17,693          77,255         54,844
2004                                                        4,718   17,693         77,255         54,844
2005-202a                                                   4,718   17,693         77,255         54,844
EIRR           15X
NPV        45,272



- 102 -
Annex 5.11
Page 1 of 2
IhDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Project Benefits and Economic Rates of Retuirn
Table 1 below presents the value of benefits used in the project
analysis. Since the power from Chandrapur unit 7 will be sold in the Bombay
area, for the calculation of benefits the consumer profile and tariffs used
are those of the Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Limited. With a recent
tariff increase, the BSES financial average tariff is as high as high as Rs.
1.82/kWh for FY93 (about Rs. 1.62 in FY92 prices). Taking only the prevallng
tariff as a proxy for benefits yields an economic rate of return of 16X.
Given the high level of tariffs already in existence, due to a large extent to
the absence of agricultural consumers, using the oame assumptions as for the
base case as for the program analysis leads to an even higher rate of return
of 20Z. The same seasitivity cases 1 and 2 reduce this only slightly.
Table 1
Average Value of Benefits and ERRs for the Project Analysis
-----------------------------------------------------------__---------------_
Category   Consumption   Benefits        Benefits   Benefits       Benefits
Share  (X)    Tariff         Base Case  Sensitivity 1  Sensitivity 2
Domestic      45            112            166         119            119
Commercial    19            193            258         248            233
Industry      35           204             220         216            210
Other          1           357             320         320            320
100  Averages 162            204          180           i74
EIRR:     162            20?          182           17?



- 103 -
INDIA                                                        Anrex 5.11
-----                                                        Page 2 of 2
SECOND NAHARASHITRA POWER PROJECT
PROJECT ANALYSIS
................
(Rs. iltlion)
CRAkDRAPUR UNIT 7               T&D                         NET       INCREMENTAL  INCREMENTAL       NET        NET
............................ .................         -       ... - ----GENERATION    REVENUE  REVENUE  BENEFITS  EE4EFITS
YEAR      Capital  Operating Coats       Capftel    OM   TOTAL COST    (CWH)       (At tariff)  Base Case    (At tariff) Base Case
(CM)        Cost     -     *            Costs
Coal  Oil  GIN
1992       473                            231                 705                                                 (705)    (N)
1993     1,420                            694               2.114                                               (2,114)  (2,114)
1994     2,367                          1,270               3,637                                               (3,637)  (3,637)
1995     2,840                          1,389               4,229                                               (4,229)  (4.229)
1996     1,420                            807               2.228                                               (2,228)  (2,228)
1997       947 420      27   170                    45      1,609        1,407         2,279       2,870           670    1,261
1996            738     48   170                    45      1,001        2,47n         4,005       5,043         3,004    4,042
1999            738     48   170                    45      1.001        2,472         4,005       5,043         3,004    4,042
2000-2022           738     48   170                    45      1,001        2,472         4,005        5,043        3,004    4,042
IRR           15X      19X
NPV        2,812   7,027



- 104 _
Annex 6.1
INDIA
SECOND MAHARASHTRA POWER PROJECT
Related Documents in the Project File
1.    Annual accounts, MSEB, 1987/88 to 1991/92 (unaudited).
2.    Administrative reports, MSEB, 1987/88 to 1990/91.
3.    MSEB's investment program for the VIlIth Plan, February 1992.
4.    Summary of operating and financial performance in respect of Eighth
Five-Year Plan, 1992-1997, MSEB.
5.    Operational and financial action plan, GOMIMSEB/PFC, January 1992.
6.    Public notice for the May 1992 tariff revision, MSEB, May 18, 1992.
7.    Time schedule for rehabilitation and resettlement of project-affected
persons of Chandrapur thermal power station, GOM, February 20, 1992.
8.    Environmental impact studies for third unit of 500 MW at Chandrapur
thermal power station, Associated Industrial Consultants (India) Private
Limited, May 10, 1990.
9.    Bidding documents for the Chandrapur-Padghe HVDC terminals, MSEB, March
1992, and related comments from Mr. Neil Magrath, World Bank Consultant,
May 28, 1992.
10. Least-cost expansion plan for the Western Region, CEA, 1992.
11.   Fourteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, March 1991.
12.   Integrated master plan for the distribution system (Ahmednagar
district), MSEB, May 1992.
13.   Detailed working tables for the computation of project cost estimates,
World Bank/MSEB, May 1992.
14.   Detailed working tables for the preparation of financial projections,
World Bank/MSEB, May 1992.



IBRD 23691
V ,'                  p  ~~~~~~~~74'!                                         76                                               78                                              80
X  57  SRDAR 4- @-ff"3   $M A D H Y A    P RA D ES H                                                                                         oJur
SARDAR
SAROVAR       %                                                                                                                            To STpur
GUJARAT    ,                                                                                                                                                1  -MW+2 x 210M?
.r. .   .*                                                                                                                                                                               Bh1  ; 425  oi\
BHUSAWAL                                                                          KR
2   i    ^ _ *      1l               /                                    ~~~~~~~~~                                                                         ~       ~~~~~AKOLA\  j
To Gandhor
TROMBAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BO26
2/r 1800 m                        NASIK
DUt*,TARAPU     K     /       /"                                                                                                                                           HVDC BACK-TO BACK                     20' 2
(6 72         |                                                                                                                                         CHANDPAPUR            TERMINALW
t 1400MW} [ 1w/ ~~~~~~~~~AURANGABAD                                                                /                                                  -(80W+    OMWI/.r
\ .3I6s0M   : WI * )
HWAS                                                                MAH SHT                        WR PROJECT
rKAWA                                                                                                                    0  AND ABOVE)
TROMBAY i                                                                                         P
(I 330MW                                                                                                                                    INE A   TRIA
BOMBIAY t   HRHR~                                                                                A      U,  
+ 360 AMNW                  LONI<>i                                                 _gf60M\e                                     /  A N D H R A  P R-A DC  ES H HVDC
4 6M)tNAGOTHANELNKN2   
4             L;~~~~~4 01 7\q                                                                                         e@3-{,-
-18                                                                                                                   _'{1
B          BINDIA
\  /   /    SECOND MAHARASHTRP POWER PROJECT
Arabian                 2                      /i   ._ _                                                                      TRANSMISSION NETWORK
FKOYNA=3 ~~KARAD                                       )PROPOSED                                        (400kV AND ABOVE)
Sea              \ 800m MWtSECTOR  PROIPOSED   UNDER
I + 000 M\O)                                                                 P  ROJECTS  PROJECT  CONSTRUCTION  DUSTING
8 I t 6 *1 *'1 /s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HVDC LINE AND TERMINALS
\  XI       ;J1 + 't.,L,       y  \t 1                                          -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~400 kV UNES
\\   ,  ~~~~~~ b 5                                   1lgl ~~~~~~~~CHANDRAPUR HVDC
KOLHAkPUR                                              1                                               ,srBACK-TO BACK TERMINAL
t  J t - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"   t  ^ ~~~~~~~~POWER STATIONS:
R t  E3  1;3       l               THERMAL
I                                                               T 3   a  HYDRO  Th,s noop has been prepered
J , s  il    NUCLEAR                                            bythe Soa Book's staff
we-Iscoo  TheWie ond..dsc
-16|                                                                       KlLOMETERS                                                  0    SELECTED SUBSTATIONS                                       Grpou TheWod- d Bookd
20  40  60  80  100  120  140  160                                   -       STATE OR UNION TERRITORY BOUNDARIES                       -nd A. b-doe s e
_____________________________________________                                                          porO 9f The  World Book Otoop~~~~~~~P., of h. WAd 8 k Go
JblUJ a  y  jo t a   the   le Ol
0   ~         20  40  60     80     100                                                                                                  eodorseo
MILESsokhodrs
740                                              76                                                78'                                              80'
MAY 1992



Tha -op h., b-en preporw
I N D I A                                                                     by rt Wor,d, B-o. r,rff
eocho.oety for the- f.V-ooo,eo
SECOND  MAHARASHTRA  POWER  PROJECT                                                                    of re- odeedrfr Th.eWoId
G.o    The deooerioohi
CHANDRAPUR THERMAL POWER  STATION  (UNIT 7)                                                              r6tr  b-do-i. oorp-
aert  World B.'
ooyr jodgeret 00n th .
Chandropur Thermal                                                                                   eodor--e-t rY .ro..pt..o
E11    Power Station (Un;: 7)                                                                               .oobh o-drir-
Water Conductor System                         Roads
-   Chandrapur Thermal Power Station    ------ Cart Tracks
Existing Reservoir                   - - - --*-*-.-Railroads
Rivers                                  ,      Bridges
Nafionw a*
Pmoposed Eestion
Mining Bbcks
r~           TAMBA 
NAt1t 0
8Z<\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ be I. p
Ragur                                         - -u---
Chinchala
rxrs ~~~Gugs                                                    / CHAD|
Wan
O       10       20       20                                                                  tu   
1   gallMugt                                                                   ,



