                  PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                           Report No.: AB5189
Operation Name         Programmatic Financial Sector Development Policy Loan
Region                 EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Sector                 General finance sector (100%)
Project ID             P116787
Borrower(s)            REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
Implementing Agency    MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                       Contact: PhD Milorad Katni
                       Title: Minister of Finance
                       Address: Stanka Dragojevica 2, 81000 Podgorica, Montenegro
                       Phone: +382 20 242-835
Date PID Prepared      May 12, 2011
Date of Appraisal      May 19, 2011
Authorization
Date of Board Approval August 23, 2011


I. Country and Sector Background

1.     Following the country’s independence in 2006, the Montenegrin economy grew rapidly
averaging nine percent per year. The growth was largely fuelled by a significant inflow of
foreign direct investment (FDI) and foreign bank loans that amounted to an average of 24
percent of GDP over 2007-2008. Over the same period, gross fixed investment increased on
average by over 40 percent, paralleled with significant rise in household and government
consumption.
2.      Domestic demand growth fuelled large macroeconomic imbalances. Given limited
domestic production, increased consumption led to a rise in imports and a widening of the
current account deficit (from 8.5 percent of GDP in 2005 to 50.7 percent of GDP in 2008). The
current account deficit was exacerbated by an exponential credit growth, largely financed by
lending from foreign parent banks to their Montenegrin subsidiaries, resulting in a high loan-to-
deposit ratio at almost 169 percent in 2008 and contributing to the overheating of the economy.
Real gross wages grew by 18 percent on average in the three-year period preceding crisis, which,
paralleled by international food and energy price increases, contributed to inflation of 7.4 percent
in 2008.
3.      These vulnerabilities were exposed and accentuated by the global financial crisis that led
to a severe economic contraction starting in late 2008. The global crisis led to a double-digit
decline in external demand for Montenegrin exports, which coupled with domestic problems in
the financial and corporate sectors, resulted in an abrupt economic slowdown in 2009 of -5.7
percent.
4.      The banking sector was hit hard as the crisis exacerbated the credit, liquidity and funding
risks that had built up. Banks faced massive deposit withdrawals that were larger and much
more persistent than in neighboring countries. The anti-crisis measures implemented by the
authorities helped slow deposit withdrawals. Between September 2008 and June 2009 there was
a loss of about 25 percent of total deposits. Starting in the second half of 2009 deposits have
shown some signs of recovery. Overall, between September 2008 at the onset of the crisis and
March 2011, the banking sector lost more 23 percent of total deposits in the system and deposits
have not recovered yet to pre-crisis levels. The significant withdrawal of deposits severely
undermined the liquidity of the system.
5.      The weakened economy (especially with the declining performance of the construction
sector and the real estate market, and large enterprises in metals sector) contributed to a high rise
in nonperforming loans (NPLs), with NPLs reaching 21 percent at end-2010. The deteriorating
asset quality put significant pressure on the profitability and capitalization of the banking sector,
requiring many banks to be recapitalized by their shareholders.
6.      As banks became concerned about their deteriorating liquidity situation and the ability of
their foreign parent banks to provide additional financing, a severe credit crunch followed.
Loans declined by 14 percent year on year in 2009, mainly due to their increasing asset quality
problems and a decline in demand for loans from the corporate sector, which was driven by the
weakening economy. At end-2010, credit continued to decline by eight percent year on year.
7.      The largest locally owned bank and the second largest bank in the country - Prva Banka –
represented substantial systemic risk. Following a massive outflow of deposits at end-2008, the
bank started to experience severe liquidity problems that threatened to undermine confidence in
the entire banking system. Faced with chronic asset-liability mismatches and the rapid
withdrawal of deposits, Prva Banka ceased to function as a normal commercial bank since Fall
2008, when the Central Bank imposed a freeze on new lending activities. The management of
the bank was replaced in late 2008, and at the same time as Prva received a 44 million
emergency loan from the GoM. The loan was repaid in 2009, but underlying asset quality
problems remained, with the negative impact on the bank’s capital position. The bank also
continued to rely heavily on deposits from Central Government and other majority state-owned
entities.
8.      Since the onset of the crisis, the authorities have undertaken significant measures to
restore financial stability. The emergency law for protection of the banking sector, in effect until
end-2009, helped stop the deposit outflow and prevent the collapse of the second largest bank in
the country. The Central Bank stepped up the supervision of systemically important banks,
including Prva Banka, agreeing with the management and shareholders on supervisory action
plans aimed at securing the necessary capital and liquidity support. The Central Bank also
amended regulations on reserve requirements, asset classification and provisioning, and capital
requirements. In parallel, the authorities progressed on the longer term agenda of strengthening
the legal framework for supervision and resolution of financial institutions by passing
amendments to the Law on Banks and the Law on Bank Bankruptcy and Liquidation, and
approving new laws on the Central Bank, Deposit Protection Fund (phasing out the blanket
guarantee), and the Financial Stability Council, bringing the regulatory framework closer to the
EU practices.

II. Operation Objectives

9.      The objective of the proposed operation is to support the authorities’ reform program for
strengthening the banking sector, which is a critical pre-condition for sustained economic
recovery and balanced private sector-led growth. The operation supports strengthening the
banking sector and increasing its resilience to future shocks, by undertaking reforms in the
following areas: (i) maintaining market confidence; (ii) strengthening the bank liquidity
framework; (iii) assessing and addressing vulnerabilities in specific banks; (iv) enhancing the
regulatory framework; and (v) problem bank restructuring.


III. Rationale for Bank Involvement

10.     The negative impact of the crisis on Montenegro’s economy provides a strong rationale
for the operation. The first FSDPL is designed to provide a coherent policy response to systemic
risks in banking sector. It also lays the foundation for healthy future growth by advancing the
regulatory reform agenda in financial sector.


IV. Financing
Source                                                      ($m.)
Borrower                                                    0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development       85.0
Total                                                       85.0


V. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

11.    The Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be responsible for the overall implementation of the
proposed operation. The MoF is the main policy counterpart. The CBCG and, to a lesser extent,
the Deposit Protection Fund play an important role in the implementation of the banking sector
reforms.

12.    The implementation of the policy actions set forth in the policy matrix has required
technical discussions amongst the Bank and the implementing institutions. The Bank and the
Montenegrin authorities have collaborated closely in the preparation of this operation. The Bank
has provided policy advice and technical assistance to the authorities on all proposed policies,
including on the drafting of new financial sector legislation, methodology for enhanced bank
supervision, and problem bank restructuring.


VI. Benefits and Risks

13.     The operation will contribute to creating the foundation for economic recovery through
strengthening the banking sector. The benefits include: (i) increased depositor confidence in the
banking sector; (ii) enhanced ability of the central bank to provide emergency liquidity
assistance; (iii) improved capacity of the authorities to monitor the banking sector and address
vulnerabilities in a timely, transparent and accountable manner; (iv) effective supervision of the
banking system consistent with EU best practices; (v) strengthened bank resolution framework;
and (vi) reduced systemic and fiscal risks associated with specific banks.
14.   Four sets of risk have been identified: economic, financial instability, governance and
implementation.

   •   Economic risk. A risk affecting the proposed operation is that slower than expected
       growth in Southeast Europe and the EU could dampen Montenegro’s recovery. This risk
       is partially mitigated by the operation’s proposed program of maintaining sound fiscal
       policies and strengthening the banking sector, to enable it to resume lending to the private
       sector, and thus encourage economic growth.

   •   Financial instability risk. The banking sector remains fragile and financial instability
       can return as a result of external or internal shocks. This risk is directly mitigated by the
       proposed reforms of strengthening the liquidity framework, the regulatory framework, the
       deposit insurance scheme, implementing supervisory action plans, and dealing with
       problem banks.

   •   Governance risk. EU and domestic observers have raised concerns in the past about the
       lack of transparency, and the influence of the organized crime in politics and economy.
       With encouragement from the EU and other international observers, Montenegrin
       authorities are making a concerted effort to correct this perception. Specifically, the
       legislative changes and more robust supervision effort supported under this operation are
       expected to strengthen the regulator’s standing and improve governance standards in the
       banking sector.

   •   Implementation risk. Implementation of the program is dependent on consistent
       collaboration amongst authorities, especially between the MoF and the Central Bank.
       While there seems to be broad support for the restoration of banking sector stability and
       its relevance for the EU accession agenda, the long preparation process for the FSDPL
       reflects the politically sensitive and technically complex nature of the proposed reforms.
       Going forward, the Central Bank will need to use its strengthened mandate to enforce
       prudential norms, require sound capital buffers, and take appropriate supervisory
       measures on problem banks. Its actions need to be fully coordinated with, and supported
       by the Government, without jeopardizing the Central Bank’s operational independence.
       To mitigate this risk, the Bank has promoted an inclusive, consultative approach in
       designing the program, seeking to foster a mutual understanding and agreement on the
       content of the reforms. The programmatic approach, with the second operation expected
       to follow in FY13, and the legal covenants requiring the continuation of the reform
       program are also expected to mitigate the implementation risk.

VII.   Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

15.     The reforms proposed under this operation are expected to have overall positive poverty
and social impacts. The deteriorating conditions in the economy, manifested in the banking
sector instability and the near collapse of the aluminum industry, are very likely to have adverse
effects on growth, employment, and poverty. This operation would mitigate the negative effects
of the crisis on poverty as it aims to: (i) increase the capacity of the financial authorities to
anticipate and address risks in the banking sector, thus avoiding a systemic crisis that could be
very costly to depositors; (ii) enhance the capacity of the financial authorities to deal with
troubled banks and thus help preserve taxpayers’ money; and (iii) facilitate a resumption in credit
activities.

16.    Specific financial sector reforms supported under the proposed FSDPL are not expected
to have any negative effect on the environment.


VIII. Contact point

Contact: Alexander Pankov
Title: Senior Private Sector Development Specialist
Tel: (202) 473-7128
Fax: (202) 522-3687
Email: Apankov@worldbank.org

IX. For more information contact:

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Email: pic@worldbank.org
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
