Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AB5157 
Operation Name 
Montenegro Financial Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P116787
 
Borrower(s) 
MONTENEGRO 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
October 20, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 29, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The project aims at restoring stability in the banking sector and strengthening its resilience to future 
shocks, to minimize the negative effects that the collapse of this strategic sector would have on the 
economy. The negative impac
t
of
the crisis on Montenegro’s economy provides a strong rationale for 
the operation. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed operation is to support the authorities’ reform program aimed at creating 
conditions for economic recovery and growth by restoration of financial stability. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
This is first in the series of two Financial Sector Development Policy Loans (FPDPLs) to Montenegro in 
support of a banking sector reform program.
 
In addition to maintaining satisfactory macroeconomic 
framework, specific reforms are proposed for restoration of stability in the banking sector and 
strengthening its resilience to future shocks by undertaking reforms in the following areas: (i) enhancing 
market confidence; (ii) strengthening the bank liquidity framework; (iii) assessing banking sector 
vulnerabilities; (iv) improving the regulatory framework; and (v) resolution of problem banks. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The financial sector reforms proposed under FSDPL will have no impact on the environment.    
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
85.0 
 Total 
85.0 
 
6. Contact point 
Page  2
Contact: Alexander Pankov 
Title: Sr Private Sector Development Specialist 
Tel: 202 473 7128 
Fax: 202 522 0073 
Email: apankov@worldbank.org
 
