Report No. PID7991
Project Name                     Madagascar-Transport Restructuring (+)
and Investment Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Transportation/Roads
Project ID                       MDPE52208
Borrower                         The Republic of Madagascar
Implementing Agencies            Oversight: Ministry of Transport and
Meteorology-MTM, Ministry of Public
Works-MTP, Ministry of Finance
Day-to-day Coordination: Project
Coordinator and Project Financial and
Contract Management Units (PFCMUs) in
MTP and MTM (to be appointed)
Execution of Components: PFCMU within MTP,
MTP Directorates and provincial
directorates (DRTP), PFCMU within MTM
and MTM Directorates, Foreign
and local contractors.
Date PID Prepared                October 27, 1998
Projected Appraisal              March 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             September 30, 1999
Country and Sector Background
Madagascar has a population of approximately 13.5 million, of which
about 70t lives in poverty. With a GDP of about US$ 230 per capita
growing at a mere 2t in real terms, Madagascar is among the poorest
countries in the world. Two decades of ill advised economic policies
have blocked economic growth at various intervals. While stabilization
measures and structural reforms have helped, Madagascar still remains
steeped in poverty. Clearly, the Government's main objective is to
steadily reduce the incidence of poverty over the next 20 years, mainly
by achieving ambitious economic growth rates. Such high growth will
require opening up to foreign investment, fostering high-growth
potential sectors such as tourism, devolving public assets to the local
private sector, and facilitating private sector investments in transport
infrastructure and services. Provision, financing and maintenance of
basic infrastructure necessary for fostering investments has, hence,
become a Government priority.
The transport sector plays a strategic role in the economy of
Madagascar.  It accounts for about 14t of GDP and 25t of total
government expenditures. Unfortunately, inadequate transport has been
and still is, a major constraint to the country's economic development.
The transport supply is short of needs in terms of geographical coverage
and quality. The long lasting deterioration of transport infrastructure
has attained a critical level. Since 1993, the government showed a
strong commitment to liberalize the transport sector and identify the
main problems of the sector. A transport plan has been prepared for



2000 and a transport policy paper is being prepared.
Sector Strategy
The Government has deployed, in collaboration with the World Bank, major
efforts to elaborate a sector strategy. This strategy rests on:
the institutional reorganization of the sector, including inter alia the
enactment of a new Road Act which specifies the role of the different
actors and the responsabilization of municipalities and other
decentralized levels of government;
the promotion of the private sector through the government's withdrawal
from the productive activities, and its focusing on its core planning,
regulatory, monitoring, and facilitation functions;
the improvement of planning, programming, and budgeting activities;
the increase in local financing capacity, including securing sufficient
resources for maintenance of transport infrastructure, and implementing
cost recovery schemes for transport services; and
the promotion of beneficiary community responsabilization.
Project Objective
The Development Objective of the project is to support Government in
achieving sustainable improvements in the supply and performance of
transport infrastructure and services, and improving access, to support
economic growth and poverty reduction. The project will contribute to
remove main transport bottlenecks and stop the spiral of infrastructure
degradation.
Progress of the project toward its objectives will be measured through:
(i) the percentage of road infrastructure in good condition by 2002,
(ii) the reduction of average delivery time for selected consumer and
exports goods by 2002, (iii) the reduction of transport costs and
vehicle operating costs by 2002, (iv) all weather transitability for a
percentage of the network by 2002, (v) the contracting out to the
private sector of road works by 2002, and (vi) the percentage of private
participation in ports operations.
Project Description
The project is the first out of three phases of an adaptable program
lending. It would focus on road, ports and river infrastructure, river
and air transport services, and restructuring of the transport sector.
The second phase of the adaptable program would focus on railway
transport, road transport and Toamasina port extension. Finally, the
third phase would focus on rural roads and provide continued assistance
to shore up sector reforms and management capabilities.
The project will support: (i) strengthening road management through the
implementation of up-front reforms and sustainable improvements in the
quality of the country's road infrastructure, with a focus on: (a) the
strengthening and restructuring of road sector institutions, the
enhancement of planning and programming capacity, and the
deconcentration of managerial responsibilities; (b) the development of
the local road construction industry; (c) the divestiture of the public
-2 -



equipment fleet; (d) the strengthened governance and financial autonomy
of the road fund, and increased road sector financing; and (e) capacity
building at all levels of the road administration; (ii) strengthening
management of the transport sector through: (a) support to the
restructuring of MTM, including providing equipment and training for its
staff; (b) support to the effective implementation of various transport
legislation; (c) assistance to transport planning and regulatory
capabilities; and (d) support to the private transporters in acquiring
skills and qualifications; (iii) promoting public-private partnerships
for the development of better transport interfaces, and further
liberalizing air, maritime and coastal shipping, and road transport
services; and (iv) executing high priority transport infrastructure
investments to facilitate the complementarity of various modes, in
particular: (a) the rehabilitation of key priority roads and ports; (b)
a pilot program to develop river navigation infrastructure; (c) priority
minor investments in airports and air traffic systems; (d) the backlog
of maintenance on main, secondary and tertiary roads; and (e) road
transport externalities such as road safety and road traffic management.
Project Cost and Financing
The project would represent a four-year slice of public investments in
the transport sector . The cost of the project is currently estimated at
US$ 420 million. The local contribution is expected to be in the order
of 15t of total project costs.   IDA, in close coordination with other
donors, will finance a significant US$ 145 million ( of the total
project cost). The following donors/financiers have expressed interest
in co-financing or financing parallel components of the road program
under the transport program. All contributions will be reconfirmed
during the pre-appraisal mission of November 1998.
Project Implementation
The project will be implemented from January 1, 2000 until December 30,
2004.
A project financial and contract management unit-PFCMU will be created
within MTM to take over the responsibility for implementing the
transport components of the project, and a PFCMU will be also created
within MTP to assume similar responsibility for implementing the roads
components of the project. The physical components, depending on their
complexity, will be carried out by foreign and local contractors on the
basis of their expertise and geographical distribution, under the
supervision of consultants hired to this effect and the MTP.
A Project Coordinator will be appointed to ensure overall project
coordination, arranging and monitoring the PFCMUs, contracting the
audits of all components of the project and overall reporting to IDA. An
organizational chart and terms of reference will be provided to specify
the responsibilities of the Project Coordinator and each PFCMU. The
project oversight will be carried out by Ministry of MTM, Ministry of
MTP and Ministry of Finance.
Project Sustainability
-3-



Government has clearly demonstrated its commitment to the sector as
evidenced by the reforms already undertaken and the on-going
liberalization and privatization in the road transport, maritime and
coastal transport, and air transport sectors. The need and
justification for adequate and sustained investments in infrastructure
is well understood. To further strengthen sustainability, the project
will assist inter alia in the following: (i) stable, timely, and
reliable financing of road maintenance, in particular adequate and
independent management of the Road Fund, and establishment of cost
recovery mechanisms for transport services; (ii) restructuring and
strengthening of concerned ministries; (iii) continued support to
regulatory and post-privatization activities, and liberalization of the
sector; and (iv) assistance to the development of the local private
sector capacity.
Lessons learned from past operations in the Country/Sector
The project design draws on the experience of past projects in
Madagascar, as well as on lessons learned in other countries, and from
the SSATP (sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program), in particular its RMI
(Road Management Initiative), RTTP (Rural Travel and Transport Program),
and Trade Facilitation components.
For the last twenty years, the transport system has been deteriorated to
an alarming degree in all modes over the whole country, as a consequence
of a persistent lack of coordination, a misallocation of resources with
excessive new investments at the expense of maintenance, cumbersome
administrative controls, and poorly managed public enterprises. With
regard to these issues, the project will focus on rehabilitation and
policy reforms rather than new investments.
The projects implemented in the past showed that public services were
not the right instrument to foster effective development, and little has
been done to transfer maintenance activities to the private sector. The
project is, therefore, designed to entail the withdrawal of the public
sector from commercial and productive activities. In addition, all
rehabilitation works should be contracted out to the private sector.
Another key lesson was that future efforts should be sought to design
projects that are well focused and limited in their scope. This project
aims at reducing the complexity of the sector approach through the use
of the APL instrument with three smaller but coordinated projects which
would be easier to manage than one large sector investment project.
Poverty Category
The project will directly address poverty through reducing transport
costs and improving accessibility of isolated areas with agricultural
potential. Moreover, promotion of local small and medium enterprises
and the use of labor-based methods will have a positive impact on
employment of unskilled workers.
Environmental Aspects
Environmental category: B. No major environmental issues are expected
- 4 -



since proposed activities to be financed under the project concern
mainly rehabilitation of existing infrastructure (roads, ports,
airports). Nevertheless, certain investment activities will be
undertaken only in line with a framework for social and environmental
sustainability of policies and works in the sector. Moreover, the
project will assist MTM and MTP in developing environmental guidelines,
and implement mitigation measures.
Program Objective Categories
The primary program objective category is to improve the coverage of
transport needs by financially sustainable transport infrastructure and
services. Secondary program objectives are private sector development,
public sector management, and poverty reduction.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 30, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is
required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance
with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to
the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA
annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in
the body of the PID.
-6-



