Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20395-MAG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 48.4 MILLION
(US $65.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FORA
Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitation Project
(APL-Phase 1)
05102/00
Division: AFTT1
Country Department: AFC08
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc
1 MF = US$ 0.0002
US$1 = ME 6,300
FISCAL YEAR 00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADEMA - A6roports de Madagascar
ACM - Aviation Civile de Madagascar
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CFM - Chemins de Fer Malgaches
CMN - Compagnie Malgache de Navigation
CNATP - Comite National d'Appui Technique a l'Autonomie des Provinces
CNRE - Centre National de Recherches sur l'Environnement
EIRR - Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENEAM - Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement de l'Acronautique et de la Meteorologie
GTIT - Groupe de Travail Interministeriel de Transports
HDM - Highway Design and Maintenance Model
LACI - Loan Administration Change Initiative
LNTPB - Laboratoire National des Travaux Publiques et des Batiments
MD - Air Madagascar
MIS - Management Information System
MOTM - Ministry of Transport and Meteorology
MOPW - Ministrv of Public Works
PMR - Project Management Report
NPV - Net Present Value
SATCC - Southern Africa Transport and Communications Commission
SMTM - Societe Malgache de Transport Maritime
MARPOL - International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
OPRC - International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness
ONE - Office National de l'Environnement
PES - Program Executive Secretariat
RMI - Road Management Initiative
RTTP - Rural Travel and Transport Program
SEPT - Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina
Vice President: Calisto Madavo
Country Director: Hafez Ghanem
Sector Manager: Yusupha Crookes
Team Leader: Pedro Geraldes



Madagascar
Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitation Project
(APL Phase 1)
CONTENTS
A. Program    Goals  and  Project Development Objectives ...................                                          ........................2
1. Program   goals and  phasing ...............................................................2
2. Project development objectives ...............................................................4
3. Key performance indicators ...................                             ............................................4
B. Strategic  Context ...............................................................5
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project . 5
2. Main sector issues and  govemment strategy ...........................................................5
3. Sector issues to be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices ...........                                     ............6
4. Performance triggers for subsequent credits ...........................................................8
C. Project Description  Summary  ......................                                     ........................................8
1. Project components ..............................................................8
2. Key policy and  institutional reforms supported  by the  project ..................................8
3. Benefits and target population ...............................................................9
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..................................................... 10
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                                       13
1. Project altematives considered  and  reasons for rejection ..................................... 13
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies ........ 14
3. Lessons leamed  and  reflected  in the  project design .............................................. 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................                               .................... 15
5. Value  added  of IDA  support in this project ............................................................. 16
E. Summary Project Analysis ..............................................................                                                17
1. Economic .............................................................. 17
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                    20
3. Technical .............................                                            .                                        21
4. Institutional ............................. 22
5. Social ............................. 22
6. Environmental assessment ............................. 23
7. Participatory approach .............................                                                                       23
F. Sustainability and Risks .............................                                                                                 24
1. Sustainability .............................                                                                                24
2. Critical Risks .............................                                                                                 25
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................. 25



G. Main Credit Conditions ........................                                                                                26
1. Conditions for negotiations ............................ 26
2. Conditions for effectiveness ............................ 26
3. Legal Covenants ...........................                                                                          26
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................ 27
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ....................... 27
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary ...........................                                                                        28
Attachment 1 Summary Cost Estimates forthe APL-1, APL-2, APL-3, and APL-4 ............. 31
Attachment 2   Trigger Indicators under the APL Instrument ................................................ 32
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description ............................................................... 36
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .......................                                                                           43
Annex 4.Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary ........................................ 45
Annex 5.Financial Summary ........................................                                                                 55
Annex 6.Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements  ................                                     ........................ 57
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ......................................................  60
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ........................................ 60
Table C. AUlocation of Credit Proceeds .......................................................                               61
Annex 7. Summary Sector Environmental Assessment ........................................                                          62
Attachment 1.Matrix of Interventions for Environmental Protection ...................                         ................... 66
Annex 8. Action Plan for Financial Management ..................................                          ........................ 71
Annex 9. Letters of Transport Sector Policy and of Road Management Strategy ...........                                   ............ 74
Annex 10. Project Processing Schedule .......................................................... 91
Annex 11. Documents in the Project File .......................................................... 93
Annex 12. Statement of Loans and Credits  ......................                            ..................................... 94
Annex 13. Country at a Glance  .......................................................... 96
Map - IBRD 30878



Madagascar
Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitation Project
APL-Phase I
Project Appraisal Document
Afrca Regional Office
AFC8
Date: 05/02/00                                          Team Leader: Pedro Geraldes
Country Director: Hafez Ghanem                          Sector Manager: Yusupha Crookes
Project ID:                                             Sector TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument:                                     Theme(s): Regulatory Reform and Private Participation
APL Credit                                                   Roads, Ports, Inland Waterways and  CMI Aviation
Financing
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    (I  Yes  [Xl No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan      [X] Credit       [] Grant        [] Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M): 65.0
Proposed terms:     [ To be defined        [   Multicurrency        [ Single currency
I
Standard Variable       Fixed             [    LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             10
Years to maturity:               40
Cornmitment fee:                  0.5%
Service charge:                   0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:
__~~~~~~4_
Government                                                    2.5                                   2.5
IBRD
IDA                                                                             65.0               65.0
Other (specify)
Total:                                                        2.5               65.0               67.5
Borrower. Govemment of Madagascar
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Transport and Meteorology (MOTM) and Ministry of Public Works (MOPW)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
.7".          _lm
Annual        9.1          16.9         19.5          13.0           6.5
Cumulative        9.1         26.0          45.5          58.5         65.0
Project implementation period: 54 months
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/00                    Expected closing date: 01/31/05
Implementing agencies: Ministry of Transport and Meteorology (MOTM) and Ministry of Public Works (MOPW)
Contact persons: Mr. RANDRIANARISON, Elie Aimable (MOTM)
Mrs. RASOAVAHINY, Justine (MOPW)
Address:
Tel: MOTM: 2225420              Fax: MOTM: 222 4001              E-mail: MOTM: Minsfrans()Dts.MA
MOPW: 2232033                    MOPW: 226 4323                     MOPW: Dpp.Mt dDts.Mg



2
A: Program Goals and Project Development Objectives
1. Program goals and phasing: (see Annex 1)
(i) Goals
The program has three main goals. First, increase efficiency by helping the Government of Madagascar
(GOM) to divest itself of functions that the private sector can better discharge. Second, contribute to
economic growth, by removing infrastructure bottlenecks in the progressively more open and
diversified economy of Madagascar-ensuring that the benefits of growth would be evenly perceived
on a spatial basis. Last, ensure the sustainability of existing infrastructure and environmental assets by
emphasizing funding for preservation and maintenance, and by factoring environmental and social
concems into the preparation and evaluation of sector programs.
The efficiency goal would be gained through measures that develop a modem regulatory
framework for a liberal business environment- one which contains privately provided transport
services and infrastructure operations. For monopolistic subsectors, the program would pursue a
strategy of corporatization and outsourcing of services with private providers; autonomous
authorities will handle regulatory functions.
Economic growth would be achieved through investments in the rehabilitation of main
infrastructure facilities for the spatial integration of the economy, and the growth and
diversification of foreign exchange eamings. Madagascar's transport infrastructure is undeveloped
or in a state of advanced decay, which imposes a considerable barrier to production-to-market
access. Potential agricultural production surpluses are lost as ever larger areas remain isolated.
Tourism is not growing as would be expected in a country with such rich natural endowments, and
mining resources remain untapped. And large segments of the population are becoming more
excluded from economic and social opportunities as accessibility levels decline.
Sustainability requires a regular flow of funds to infrastructure operations and maintenance. The
deterioration of infrastructure assets must be arrested, and no new investments should be
undertaken without ensuring their efficient use. To this extent, and beyond privatization, the project
would seek the direct involvement of beneficiaries in financing and management of infrastructure
at the national and regional levels. And, because of Madagascar's fragile ecosystem, the project
will work to preserve the country's unique natural endowment through enforcement of national
policies and regulations at the sector level.
The three program goals -efficiency, growth, and sustainability - are interdependent. Reduced
domestic and international transport costs, achieved by gains in efficiency, are key to bringing
available resources into the market place, thus fostering growth through diversification of exports.
Sustainability, through the preservation of natural and infrastructure assets, is a prerequisite to
maintaining comparative advantage. And ensuring that the benefits of growth are perceived by
Madagascar's population-especially the rural poor-through improved accessibility is essential
for the sustainability of the policy reform process.
(ii)   Phasing
After a prolonged dialogue with IDA, the GOM has committed to a comprehensive eight-year
program of reform and development of the country's transport sector. The government has also
demonstrated its commitment by initiating a comprehensive divestment program, including the flag
air carrier (Air Madagascar) and its subsidiaries, the shipping line CMTM, and the Northern
Railways. The government will also liquidate CMN, another shipping line, unbundle and
corporatize MOPW's force account organization, and create autonomous Port Authorities to



3
manage the countries secondary ports. Moreover, an ambitious regulatory reform program has been
initiated, including the progressive liberalization of the air transport and shipping markets. Key
institutional reforms will lead to the spin-off of regulatory functions from the line ministries, and
create autonomous regulatory bodies for both civil aviation and ports. In this context, the IDA-
financed program includes four phases, the content and timing of which are dictated by: (i) the pace
of the privatization process, especially in regard to uncertainties about when the expected sell-offs
and signing of concession agreements will happen, and when the financial closure to back theses
agreements will be effective; (ii) the requirements for public financing thereof to meet residual
investment and/or labor and any other government liabilities; (iii) the time needed to move the
decentralization process to the point that regional governments and local communities can manage
their transport infrastructure; and (iv) the shoring up of institutional and project preparation
capabilities, as well as sustainability requirements, before committing funds to particular
subprograms.
Phase I of the proposed Program (APL-1), which is the object of detailed appraisal in this report,
would focus on: (i) strengthening the recently created Civil Aviation Regulatory Agency (Aviation
Civile de Madagascar, ACM); (ii) institutional reforms to implement Autonomous Port Agencies
for secondary and tertiary ports and an autonomous Ports and Shipping Regulatory Agency; (iii)
concessioning of airport and railway facilities, as well as of cargo handling facilities at the main
Port of Toamasina; (iv) spin-off of the public works force account activities and commercialization
of production units; (v) preparing social mitigation plans for sector agencies; (vi) developing the
domestic private sector; (vii) facilitating foreign trade, through transport-related measures; (viii)
making the road maintenance fund operational; and (ix) implementing a sector environmental
assessment and follow-up framework.
APL-1 would also provide financing for physical investments in the periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation of 527 km of main roads of key economic importance; rehabilitation of port and
maritime facilities in secondary ports; pilot program for river navigation; shipwrecking removal;
and emergency coastal protection works. Moreover, APL-1 would be an instrument for capacity-
building in MOTM and MOPW and preparing subprograms to be financed under subsequent APLs.
These would include rural roads, secondary airports, railways, remaining rehabilitation
requirements for the primary road network, port improvements, and intermodal transport facilities.
APL-2 will focus on strengthening sector agencies to be effective in conceding authority functions,
particularly in supervising concession contracts for airports, ports, and railways. APL-2 will also
finance social protection and mitigation program prepared under APL-1. Physical investments
under APL-2 would cover residual public investment requirements identified during the
concessioning of secondary airports, railways, and intermodal transport facilities.
APL-3 will concentrate on financing the rehabilitation of some 1,000 km of rural roads and on
implementing a program to decentralize, finance, and manage the rural network. This program
would be prepared under APL-1.
Finally, APL-4 would cover a second stage of the rehabilitation of the primary road network and of
the port and river investment program to be also prepared under APL-1.
The design of the APL process was done in such a way that the APLs' triggering mechanisms are as
independent as possible from each other. APL-1 focuses on the regulatory framework required by
privatization, on key sector investment and sustainability requirements, and on subprogram preparation
for financing under subsequent APLs. APL-2 centers on financing public investments and social
liabilities required because of organizational restructuring and concession contracts closed during APL-
1, as well as on strengthening conceding authority functions in the sector agencies. APL-3 focuses on a
rural roads program prepared under APL-1, in support of the government's decentralization policy and



4
poverty alleviation efforts. APL-4 will follow on APL-1 by supporting a second stage of primary
infrastructure rehabilitation. To the extent possible, only measures required for the implementation of
each APL are set as the associated triggers. This allows the APL process to progress, at the same pace
as the government reform process in each of the selected areas. It would therefore be feasible that, say,
APL-3 would be triggered before APL-2, and that different APLs overlap in time. However, no APL
would be triggered before an assessment of the implementation of government's sector policy is carried
out. Whenever the specific triggering indicators for each APL are met at any time, there would be a
policy review of key milestones that should have been achieved by that time. These milestones are part
of the time-bound action plan attached to the government's Letters of Transport Sector Policy and of
Road Strategy. Therefore, the triggering of any APL would first require the satisfactory completion of
that policy review.
2. Project development objectives (see Annex 1)
The project would help strengthen transport sector policy and management by supporting: (i) further
liberalization of air, maritime, shipping, and road transport services; (ii) reactivation of the trade and
transport facilitation process; (iii) promotion of public/private partnerships in investment and
management of primary transport facilities, and otherwise of users and beneficiaries in operations and
maintenance; (iv) restructuring of MOTM and its affiliated agencies, including staff training for the
discharge of regulatory functions; (v) skill enhancement of small private transport operators; and (vi)
development of a strategy for road transport policy. The project would also strengthen road
management through: (i) spin-off and commercialization of productive activities and divestiture of the
public equipment fleet; (ii) restructuring of MOPW and affiliated institutions to increase managerial
delegation and outsourcing of activities with private suppliers; (iii) enhancement of planning and
programming capabilities, and capacity-building at all levels of the road administration ; (iv) increased
resource mobilization and allocation to maintenance and operations by strengthening the governance,
autonomy and accountability of the Road Fund Board; and (v) development of small domestic private
contractors. The project would further support the implementation of an environmental and social
mitigation strategy for the sector through: (i) capacity-building and training for environmental
assessment; (ii) monitoring of environmental performance in the sector; (iii) development of a national
catastrophe prevention and mitigation strategy; and (iv) preparation of a comprehensive social
protection and mitigation program for the workers displaced as a result of sector restructuring. Through
the investmenits financed under the Credit, the project would also restore infrastructure facilities in trade
corridors and zones with good agricultural potential, and help in environmental protection.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The progress of the project will be assessed through the: (i) increase in private participation in aviation,
shipping, airport, and railway operations and infrastructure; (ii) reduction of the average port through-
time for key tradables; (iii) reduction in vehicle operating costs and in transport tariffs for freight and
passengers in selected routes; (iv) increase in traffic volume in selected transport modes/corridors; (v)
increase in the percentage of road infrastructure in good condition; (vi) all weather use for a greater
percentage of the road network; (vii) increased number of road works contracted out to the private
sector; (viii) real increase in resources allocated to and used in road maintenance, and regularity in the
availability of such funds; (ix) percentage of infrastructure works going through a satisfactory
environmental assessment; (x) quality and coverage of the social protection and mitigation studies done
as part of the restructuring effort; (xi) success of training and capacity-building initiatives through
participants' assessments at activity completion and through ex-post surveys; (xii) regular assessment of
users and beneficiaries' satisfaction; and (xiii) cost-effective and timely implementation of investments
financed under the Credit.



5
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number:      16249-MAG            Date of latest CAS discussion:   02/18/97
The last CAS for Madagascar intended to reduce poverty by alleviating the wide-ranging constraints
that stand between Madagascar and its growth potential. This strategy had four objectives: (i) broad-
based growth led by foreign investment; (ii) human capital development, focused on basic education,
health care and rural infrastructure; (iii) strengthening the public sector's ability to deliver quality
services and create an enabling business environment; and (iv) natural resource management to reduce
degradation and develop the potential for eco-tourism.
Within the project, CAS-related goals include: support to private sector-led growth through quality
transport services; accessibility to areas of the country whose remoteness prevents improved living
standards for the poor; an enabling business environment through regulatory reform and financing to
meet government obligations under private/public partnerships; and mitigating the environmental
impacts of improved transport infrastructure and services.
The project would address these goals through a four-pronged strategy: (i) support regulatory and
institutional reforms to accommodate (and sustain) private participation, while enabling the public
sector to fulfill its new regulatory and supervisory (rather then executing) role; (ii) involve the private
sector by granting last-resort finance within public/private partnerships, and by promoting the
outsourcing of activities with the domestic private sector (which will be strengthened in the process);
(iii) remove key infrastructure bottlenecks and support more road investments in rural areas; and (iv)
contribute to investment and environmental sustainability by helping to mobilize and allocate resources
for infrastructure maintenance, and by systematically incorporating environmental protection into sector
activities.
2. Main sector issues and government strategy:
T'he transport sector plays a key role in Madagascar's growth and poverty alleviation strategy. Increased
foreign investment, development of the country's eco-tourism potential, and growth in agricultural
output all depend on the competitiveness of transport services and the availability of basic
infrastructure. Unfortunately, transport services and infrastructure are in short supply both in quality and
geographical coverage. The considerable extension of the country and the formidable topographical
barriers, compounded by a long-lasting deterioration of existing infrastructure, have exacerbated the
situation. But the sector is also hindered by inappropriate policies, a flawed institutional framework and
lack of managerial incentives, unbalanced funding, and the absence of an appropriate regulatory
framework.
Madagascar's transport sector has been dominated by direct state intervention and heavy reliance on
parastatals and/or government agencies to provide services. With the exception of road freight transport,
government has, directly or indirectly, managed and financed railways, aviation, airports, shipping, and
ports. As a result, service is poor, operating efficiency is low, safety standards are inappropriate,
maintenance has been neglected, and funding for capital investments has been difficult to mobilize. As
railways and the shipping lines compete for transport services, the parastatals have seen decreasing
market share and declining operating revenues. Other parastatals and/or government agencies providing
monopolistic or quasi-monopolistic services, such as aviation, ports and airports, have muddled through
but at the cost of declining quantity and quality of services and infrastructure. Apart from Antananarivo
airport and the port of Toamasina, transport facilities have often become technologically obsolete. This
is also true of road infrastructure, which has traditionally been managed centrally and vertically,
including planning, programming, funding, and execution of works. In a framework dominated by state



6
intervention, it is not surprising that the domestic private construction industry is underdeveloped and
that a more efficient, safe and environmental-friendly operation of transport services by small operators
still need to be developed.
To address these issues, the GOM has deployed, in cooperation with IDA, the European Union, and
other bilateral Donors, including the French Cooperation, the Swiss Cooperation and USAID, major
efforts to install a sector strategy. This strategy rests on the following four building-blocks:
(i) Promotion of private sector involvement, through the government's withdrawal from productive
activities and instead focussing on core functions of economic and technical regulation; discharging of
conceding authority functions; first instance of appeal for the settlement of disputes under concession
agreements; development of a level-playing field for the private provision of services; planning and
programming of the investments to remain under the public sector; environmental protection including
the provision of meteorological services; natural disaster mitigation and safety enhancements; and
overall monitoring functions.
(ii) Organizational restructuring of the two key line Ministries (MOTM and MOPW), including the
unbundling of regulatory functions for civil aviation and ports through the creation of two new
autonomous agencies; the creation of autonomous port authorities for each secondary port and for
groups of tertiary ports; the clarification of the role of the various levels of government in a
decentralized framework for the provision and management of road infrastructure; the unbundling of
road infrastructure production services that can succeed commercially and liquidation of those which
cannot. Staff rationalization programs have also been prepared, based on anticipated skill-mix
requirements and redeployment possibilities.
(iii) Improve resource mobilization in the transport sector through privatization and equitable user
charges policies, particularly in the road subsector, and ensure sustainability through dedicated user-
funded mechanisms in the ports, airports, and road sub-sectors, as well as for the new regulatory
agencies. Whenever collection of dedicated funds would be done more effectively at the central level,
put appropriate allocation mechanisms in place for the decentralized-managed infrastructure. Rural
roads, and tertiary airports and ports, for instance, would thus benefit from transfers from the center,
although in a way that provides incentives for local resource mobilization through matching
arrangements, and subject to accountability mechanisms;
(iv) Involve users and beneficiaries in decisions related to funding and operation of public-managed
infrastructure. To this extent, the Boards of the Autonomous Port Agencies and the Board of the
recently-created Road Fund would have representation from sector stakeholders, including associations
of port and road transport users, local government and communities, chambers of commerce and
industry, associations of agricultural producers, and other social partners.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In order to assist in the implementation of the government's sector strategy, the project will address the
following sector issues:
(i) Private Participation
The project will foster private participation in the sector by developing an enabling environment for
public/private partnerships in operating and managing ports and railways, as well as for secondary and
tertiary airport rehabilitation, whose management will be contracted out to private operators. In
addition, the outsourcing of road works to the private sector would be a key element under the project,
with a special emphasis on creating a market for domestic private contractors. Training and skill
enhancement programs for the small scale construction and road transport industries financed under the
project would also contribute to develop the incipient domestic private sector.



7
(ii) Regulatory Reform
The project will work for liberalization of aviation and shipping services, and of port and airport
operations, whereas the Credit would finance actions to strengthen the recently created ACM and to
implement a Shipping and Ports Regulatory Agency.
(iii) Organizational Restructuring and Social Protection
The project would support a major reorganization effort in MOTM and MOPW, as they move away
from direct executing functions. For MOTM, this would involve capacity-building to discharge
conceding authority functions; to prepare and enforce technical regulations; to develop and implement
road transport policy; to adopt an intermodal approach for sector development based on the economic
role of different transport modes, focussed on the management of the logistic chain; and to lead
transport and trade facilitation efforts. As to MOPW, the project would support the GOM strategy of
commercialization of productive activities, through the creation of commercialized production units,
and divestment of the equipment fleet. The project would also strengthen MOTM's and MOPW's
capabilities in planning, programming and financial control; in procurement, supervision and control of
works; and in delegated management of works, particularly roads, during the transition period preceding
the decentralization of road management to subnational levels of government. The Credit would also
finance the preparation of a social mitigation program for workers displaced under the restructuring of
MOTM and MOPW.
(iv) Road Sector Planning and Financing
The project would pursue a balanced allocation of resources between primary and rural roads, and
between maintenance and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. It would also promote and
progressively implement a cost-recovery and funding policy, through the recently created Road Fund.
Specific actions under the project would cover the development and regular updating of a balanced
pluriannual expenditure program, and the progressive reliance on domestic resources to meet road
maintenance requirements for primary, rural, and urban roads. The project would also support
independent performance audits for the various categories of road infrastructure.
(v) Environmental Protection
These actions would try to institute a systematic environmental assessment in the transport sector,
covering operations and infrastructure. Under the project MOTM would implement a strategy for
natural catastrophe mitigation, mainly for cyclone damages.
The main strategic choice was related to the selection of IDA's lending strategy to assist the GOM's
transport restructuring and development program. The alternatives under consideration narrowed down
to a series of investment credits vs. a broader APL approach. The latter was selected in view of: (i) the
government's ownership and commitment to its reform program, leading to key pieces of legislation
covering economic regulation, organizational reform of MOTM and MOPW, and sector financing
during project preparation ; (ii) the start-up of the government's divestment program during project
preparation; (iii) the time required for implementation of the government's far-reaching reforms and the
need for flexibility in their sequence and timing made it difficult to set up "ex-ante" a time-bound
program, and calling instead for a trigger-activated mechanism; (iv) private participation in the sector
required a long-term commitment from IDA to private investors and social stakeholders-as an honest-
broker, an anchor for the regulatory reform process, a promoter of appropriate market structure in public
procurement, and a financier of last-resort; (v) the need for a balanced road expenditure program and
improved sector funding called for IDA's continuous involvement over the medium term as a financier
and as a catalyst for donor coordination; and (vi) the time-horizon associated with managing the
transition to a decentralized administrative and fiscal framework for public works, also called for a
long-term commitment by IDA.



8
4. Performance triggers for subsequent credits (see Annex 1, Attachment 2)
The performance triggers for subsequent credits, as agreed with the government during negotiations, are
indicated in Attachment 2 to Annex 1.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Regulatory refsrm at ing dte   Goods and               1729    12          17.9       12
sector development             consultant services
for technical
assistance and
training
Organizational restructuing and  Goods and             12.6    19          12.6     19
sector policy                 |consultant services
for technical    lllll
Iassistance and   IIIII
|traininglllll
Environmertal protection      |Goods, works and   |     15.2 |23    | 14.5   |22               l
consultant serviceslllll
Improvement of economic        Works and               30.3    46          28.5       44
infrastructure                 consultant services  I        I_I _                I_I
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     66.0    100        63.5        98
Refinancing of PPFs                                      1.5                1.5        2
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                67.5               65.0      100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The institutional and policy reforms supported by the project aim to improve sector competitiveness.
This will be achieved through a business environment that increases private sector participation as
investor, manager, and promoter. Complementary policy and institutional reforms supported by the
project will create a sustainable framework for sector development, both from a financial and
environmental perspectives.
Specific reforms and policies supported by the project during preparation, and to be followed during
implementation of the APL process, are under various stages of implementation as follows:
(i) Air transport. Progressive removal of entry restrictions in aviation services; development of a
technical and economic regulatory framework that ensures consumer protection; setting up of ACM, an
autonomous regulatory agency, in charge of technical and economic regulations; privatizing the flag
carrier, Air Madagascar; and promoting private financing and management of airport infrastructure and
operations;
(ii) Shipping, river transport and ports. Liberalization of handling operations in the main Port of
Toamasina; creation of autonomous entities to manage the secondary and tertiary ports; development of
a legal framework that allows the concession of port operations and facilities to the private sector;
setting-up of an autonomous regulatory agency in charge of ports and shipping regulation; divestment
process for CMN (liquidation) and SMTM (privatization); preparation of a pilot framework to involve



9
users and beneficiaries in river transport management; and ratification of the MARPOL and OPRC
conventions;
(iii) Railway. Privatization of the Northern Railway, for which a single bid has been received and is now
being evaluated by the government; structuring a public/private partnership for the Southern Railway
capable of gaining the interest of private operators, possibly through a joint railway/port operating
concession;
(iv) Road transport and infrastructure. Enactment of the revised Road Fund Decree, establishing a
sustainable funding mechanism for maintenance and an appropriate organizational structure;
enhancement of user and beneficiary representation in the Road Fund Board; formulation of a road user
charges policy; defining the initial road fee and of its collection and transfer mechanisms; setting up the
framework for the periodic adjustments in the road fee; enacting the revised Road Act; regulatory
framework for delegated public works management; and road strategy;
(v) Environmental protection. Implementation of a comprehensive environmental strategy for the
transport sector, and monitoring of its impact thereof, and
(vi) Social protection. Preparation of a social mitigation program for the implementation of the
organizational restructuring programs for MOTM and MOPW, while seeking the smooth reintegration
of any displaced workers into the labor market and social fabric of the country.
3. Benefits and target population:
The impacts of project investments under APL-1 on users and beneficiaries of the transport system will
be wide, given the comprehensive nature of the project. Regarding the roads to be improved under APL-
1, the areas in which investments will take place cover a broad cross-section of production conditions.
The works done on RN 35, 25 and 45 will upgrade road conditions in an agriculturally productive area.
For instance, local farmers in the hinterland of RN 25 produce lichee nuts, among other lucrative cash
crops, which are a valuable export crop, and which depend on rapid access to markets and production
facilities. RN 25 also provides the only year-round connection to the main east coast road linking the
area to Tomasina, the leading port of Madagascar. The improvement of RN 44 and RN 3a will help in
the lower cost evacuation of rice from one of the most important production areas in the country.
In general, the road transport markets of Madagascar are competitive. Discussions with transporters
indicate that rates do indeed vary significantly with road condition. Over time, there will be pressure on
truckers to reduce their rates following road improvements. This reduction will lead to an increase in
rural incomes. The bus fleet is growing rapidly and will receive a significant proportion of road project
benefits. Rural dwellers and interurban travelers-who rely on the bus because of the low rate of
motorization in the country-will ultimately benefit from lower fares. Buses also play an important role
in marketing the produce of rural populations.
The restructuring of MOTM and MOPW, and of its agencies, offers employment opportunities to a
group of workers whose status was until recently unclear. Employment in the private construction firms
will likely increase significantly-the sustainable funding of road maintenance under the project should
ensure a growing and steady stream of work for domestic private contractors. The project will generate
other employment opportunities as well-such as jobs to accommodate the increasing traffic in the
rehabilitated ports.
The port rehabilitation works in Toliary and Mahajanga will guarantee the future of these important
economic facilities and of the businesses and individuals that rely on the ports for their commerce. The
Province of Toliary was ranked by IDA and the GOM in 1996 as the most impoverished in Madagascar
in terms of the incidence and degree of poverty. Toliary and Mahajanga have important fish processing
operations that will export a product made from locally caught shrimp and groundfish. The analysis
indicates that these important employers and purchasers of locally caught fish will expand operations as
a result of the proposed rehabilitation works, thus increasing local employment.



10
The works proposed for the Sofia and Tsiribihina Rivers will create the conditions for change in the
production patterns of thousands of rural families. Until now, the lack of regular river transport services
at crucial times of the year has held back investments for farmers to produce potentially lucrative cash
crops, such as haricot beans or cotton. Local farmers have been denied access to major rural credit
schemes because of a reluctance on the part of credit agencies to lend to producers in remote areas. The
procurement of inputs will become less problematic, and the improved access offered by the river will
help in the distribution of social services. On the Tsiribihina River, employment opportunities will
increase in the so-far embryonic tourism industry.
Other activities supported under subsequent APLs were also subject to a prefeasibility screening. The
concessioning of the Northern Railway will help preserve some 1,500-1,600 employment positions,
which are otherwise at risk were the railway to continue to lose traffic. A number of important rural
mining operations will benefit from the more reliable and frequent operation of the least-cost mode for
their transport. The prospects for two proposed mining operations, potentially offering significant rural
employment opportunities, will also be enhanced if railway service is restored to reasonable levels of
efficiency. Regarding the Southern Railways, ongoing USAID work suggests that, despite their very
low traffic, discontinuance of the services would bring an accelerate environmental deterioration in the
network's servicing area. Upon completion of the USAID work, an analysis of the economic role of the
Southern Railway, including externalities, will be carried out as a basis to assess the rationale for public
investment in the context of a public/private partnership.
The rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary airports and the establishment of private/public partnerships
will help expand air services using appropriate equipment. Business development and government
administrative efforts in the remote areas served by the secondary and tertiary airports will benefit. The
future development of tourism, and the employment opportunities it affords, depends on regular and
reliable air access. The secondary and tertiary airports also play a crucial role in the distribution of
emergency assistance following the extreme climatic events that occur often in Madagascar.
The rural road component envisaged for APL-3 will reduce transport costs and provide year-round
access to rural dwellers through the upgrading of existing roads. The rehabilitation of rural roads will
help extend social services to people in enclave areas and could lead, if rural credit schemes are
extended to unserved areas, to the production of cash crops, thus increasing rural incomes.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutional and implementation arrangements for the project are part of the restructuring process
initiated by MOTM and MOPW. Therefore, technical assistance and support to strengthen program and
project management capabilities will take place within the broader framework of strengthening the
capacity for programming, procurement, financial management, and disbursements of both ministries.
Implementation period
The implementation period for APL-1 would be four-and-half years-i.e., from 08/01/00 to 01/31/05,
and about eight-and-half years for all the APL phases (completion date 01/31/09).
Executing Agencies
The project will have two executing agencies: MOTM and MOPW. Each executing agency will be
responsible for project activities under its tutelage. To this extent, MOTM will be the executing agency
for the: (i) Regulatory Reform and Private Sector Development Component, except the technical
assistance for the commercialization/liquidation of MOPW's Production Units and the technical
assistance and training for the domestic construction industry; (ii) Organizational Restructuring and
Sector Policy Component, except the activities related to the restructuring of MOPW and to the
preparation of the social protection program; (iii) Environmental Protection Component, except the
works and studies for coastal protection, and the procurement of emergency metallic structures; and (iv)



11
Rehabilitation of Economic Infrastructure, except the works for periodic maintenance of national roads,
the feasibility studies for the rehabilitation of national roads and for the improvement of rural roads, and
the consultant services for supervising road works. All activities not executed by MOTM will be
executed by MOPW.
The physical components, depending on their complexity, will be carried out by foreign or
domestic contractors, on the basis of their expertise and geographical distribution, and will be
supervised by consultants.
Project coordination and implementation
A Program Executive Secretariat (PES) will be established to coordinate project implementation. The
PES will be headed by one Executive Secretary jointly nominated by the Ministers of MOTM and of
MOPW, to whom she/he will be accountable. PES will also be entrusted with the coordination of other
major donor-assisted programs, including the EU's and the ADB's. The PES will ensure the interfacing
of the staff of both executing ministries, through the respective Secretaries General. The PES will be
further responsible for ensuring that stakeholders are involved with program implementation. These
stakeholders would include the Road Fund Board, Associations of Transporters and of Transport Users,
Chambers of Agriculture, Commerce and Industry, and other interested parties, including NGOs.
The PES will, among other things, be responsible for: (i) selecting consultants for technical assistance,
training, and studies; (ii) issue tender documents for civil works, goods and services, evaluate tenders
and make proposals for awards; (iii) ensure compliance with government and IDA's environmental and
social safeguard policies, including any required mitigation measures thereof; (iv) ensure the
implementation of the financial management action plan; (v) manage disbursements, and replenishment
applications for the Special Account; (vi) contract out project financial and procurement audits; (vii)
monitor the execution of works; (viii) prepare quarterly progress reports for IDA; (ix) promote regular
consultations with relevant stakeholders as well as the dissemination of information to the press; (x)
monitor the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and prepare semi-annual progress reports; (xi) prepare
the annual reviews of project implementation; and (xii) ensure coordination with GOM's rolling
pluriannual expenditure program. PES staff will include specialists in transport policy, roads
management, financial management, procurement management, environmental and social protection,
and information and public affairs.
Two project units, one in MOTM and the other in MOPW will assist PES. Each unit will keep an
accounting system satisfactory to IDA standards; prepare tender documents; manage contracts; and
prepare all basic information on project management as required by PES. Each of these units will
include a Chief Account, a Procurement Officer, and two Accountants.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing
(i)    Accounting system
Since the project's financial management system has to be created, an assessment was carried out
at pre-appraisal stage to define the characteristics of the system and to determine an action plan to
ensure compliance with the financial management capacity required by IDA standards.
The MOTM and MOPW will maintain separate accounts for all transactions related to each component
for which they have implementation responsibility, and will produce their individual annual financial
statements in accordance with internationally accepted accounting principles. PES will consolidate the
project financial statements at the end of each fiscal year. To strengthen both MOTM and MOPW
financial management systems and to build their capacity to produce Project Management Reports
(PMRs), an agreed action plan by the borrower has been proposed afler the assessment (see Annex 8).
The main measures to be completed before the date of credit effectiveness include the recruitment of
key accounting staff (Chief Accountant and two qualified and experienced accountants for each



12
executing agency) to deal with accounting and financial management; the implementation of the
accounting procedures manual to provide information for record keeping and control over assets; the
appointment of an accounting.firm to audit the project's financial statements. The recruitment of a
consulting firm (specialized both in accounting and Management Information Systems) to provide
appropriate computer software for financial management and accounting will start immediately after
project effectiveness date. The recruitment will be conducted through a competitive process in
accordance with terms of reference approved by IDA.
(ii)   Project Management Reports
In accordance with Bank policy and procedures, the project needs to adopt a financial management and
reporting system in compliance with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Since the
MOTM and MOPW financial management systems will be new, and the capacity of the accounting staff
has to be developed, the project cannot yet produce a Project Management Report. During the first two
years the project will use the traditional disbursement procedures and will submit, in addition to its
basic financial statements, the following quarterly reports: a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a
Contract Expenditure Report-Goods and Works, a Contract Expenditure Report-Consultants, a
Procurement Management Report-Goods and Works, a Procurement Management Report-Consultants.
IDA would do an assessment before the end of this interim period to determine whether the MOTM and
MOPW meet the eligibility criteria established under LACI.
(iii)   Auditing
An independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, will audit the project's financial statements. The auditor
will carry out this audit in accordance with international auditing standards and will provide a separate
opinion on the financial statements, use of the special accounts, and statement of expenditures. The
auditor will communicate in the audit report, especially in the section Management Letter, significant
deficiencies in the design or operation of internal control and propose relevant recommendations for its
improvement. The audit report will be sent to IDA within six months after the closing date of the fiscal
year. The terms of reference for the audit were found acceptable to IDA standards.
Disbursements
Disbursements from IDA will be made on the basis of incurred eligible expenditures. IDA will make
advance disbursements from the proceeds of the Credit by depositing into two Borrower-operated
special accounts to expedite project implementation. One special account, in the amount of US$1.9
million will be opened in the name of MOTM, whereas the second one in the amount of US$2.6 million
will be open in the name of MOPW. The advance to the special accounts will be used by the Borrower
to finance IDA's share of project expenditures under the Credit. Another acceptable method of
withdrawing funds from the Credit is the direct payment method, involving direct payments from the
Credit to a third party for works, goods, and services upon the Borrower's request. Payments may also
be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special commitments covering a
commercial bank's Letter of Credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter will stipulate a minimum application
value for direct payment and special commitment procedures. These disbursement methods will be used
during the two first years of project implementation. After this period, it will be determined whether the
Borrower is ready to implement the new LACI disbursement system.
Upon Credit effectiveness, the two executing agencies will submit a withdrawal application for an
initial deposit to the Special Accounts, drawn from the IDA credit, in the amounts agreed during
negotiations. Replenishment of funds from IDA to the Special Accounts will be made upon evidence of
satisfactory use of the advance, reflected in the SOE's and/or on full documentation for payments above
the SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications should be submitted regularly. If ineligible
expenditures have been made from the Special Account, the Borrower will be obliged to refund the
same. If the Special Accounts remain inactive for more than six months, the Borrower may be requested
to refund to IDA the amounts advanced to the Special Accounts.



13
Monitoring and evaluation
(i) PES will develop a monitoring and evaluation system, based on the findings of a project launching
workshop to be held in July 2000; (ii) semi-annual progress reports will be prepared on the basis of the
project implementation plan; and (iii) a completion report will be submitted by the government to IDA
within six months of Credit closing. Annual reviews of project implementation will be carried out
before the beginning of each Borrower's fiscal year to facilitate annual program budgeting. A mid-term
review will be carried out 18 months after Credit effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two main project alternatives were considered and rejected in favor of the selected one. The first
alternative involved the cross-sectoral approach followed in project design, and the other the project
scope.
As to the project design, an alternative approach would have involved the consideration of parallel
projects, each one supporting one sub-sector and having a single executing agency. This alternative
could well be more focussed in scope and easier to implement. The institutional interlocutor would also
be sharply defined, and the beneficiaries and stakeholders more homogeneous. In the end, this
alternative was rejected in favor of a cross-sectoral approach since: (i) there have to be complementary
investments, such as interfaces among various transport modes, in the context of the privatization of
modal companies such as the railways; (ii) the prospects for increasing gains in market share from the
privatized railways, should be taken into account into the planning of road investments; (iii) the
provision of infrastructure to facilitate agricultural-based exports should reflect the full logistic chain,
ranging from shipping and port services to feeder, rural, and main roads; and (iv) the advantages of
addressing concessioning, regulatory reform, and organizational restructuring issues on a cross-sectoral
basis, involving both the transport industry and infrastructure provision.
Regarding project scope, and in order to facilitate restructuring and private participation in the sector,
consideration was given to the inclusion under APL-1 of a staff redundancy program for sector
agencies, as well as to the pros and cons of making specific provision for the financing of public/private
partnerships under the Credit. As to the financing of staff redundancies, it was decided to include
provision for them only under APL-2, since: (i) a compensation system for the various categories of
public employees should first be defined, in order to avoid the establishment of precedents which may
not be affordable for the civil service as a whole; (ii) detailed social mitigation plans satisfactory to IDA
standards remain to be prepared and will be so under APL-1; and (iii) the privatization transactions
should first be closed, so that a minimum number of redundancies can be established. Regarding the
explicit provision of financing for public/private partnerships, one alternative considered was its
complete exclusion in view of the risk that it would end-up inhibiting private willingness to invest. In
the end, the alternative selected involved an allocation of IDA funds to private/public partnerships,
whenever available evidence indicates that the deals will not reach closure without the provision of
some public financing. This is the case of secondazy and tertiary airports, transport terminals, and
railways considered under APL-2. As to secondary and tertiary airports, the Privatization Commission
has identified them as being unlikely to attract private investment, although private initiative may be
secured for its operation after the state undertakes some minimum investment. In the case of transport
terminals, the business plan by the potential concessionaire for the Northern Railways specifically
considers public investment in the terminal as a prerequisite for taking the concession.
The potential concessionaire for the Northern Railways has also indicated his willingness to mobilize
finance for its proposed minimum investment program, but at closure the concessionaire may not want
to undertake some remaining key safety investments. As to the Southern Railways, it is most unlikely
that any private operator is attracted without a minimum front-end investment undertaken by the public



14
sector. In any case, no IDA funds for public/private partnerships would be allocated without an
assessment of the need for public investment through a bidding process. Even so, cost-recovery
mechanisms would be put in place so that the state can recover any up-front investment through
concession fees.
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies:
(conipted and ongoing)
Implementation       Developmerit
Progress (IP)      Objective (DO)
More recentlycompleted                             The last of the weplve IDA projects in the
Roads Infrastructure         - Seventh Highway Project  transport sector was completed in 1996
-sPoets Infratnucture        - Port rehabilitaton Project
exEmergency rehabilitation   -Hurricane Emergency
rehabilmtation Project
moRaieay Infrastructure .      Third Railtay Project
asoivatin withothee  rt snd Capacfty Building Project.
IP/DA Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the proaect design
IDA has been extensively involved in the transport sector of the Republic of Madagascar, by supporting
noelve transport projects between 1966 and 1996 totaling over US$200 million. Seven were in the roads
sub-sector, two in the ports sub-sector and three in the railway sub-sector. These initiaeives doifered
substantially in scope, magnitude and the objectives they aimed to achieve. In addition some were
executed in times marked by polivical unrest, economic stagnalion, and farndamental changes in overall
gaonomic potcies, which impacted project implementation. Many lessons leaased are thus project or
mode specific. However, the following general trends can be regarded as lessons leaned from IDA's
association with the transport sector of Madagascar.
A strong commitment to project objectives is crucial to successful project implementation, while the
scope for political interference in technical decisions needs to be limited. In the past, the Malagasy
Govenment had shown varying commitments to project objectives. In some cases, the government did
not honor project implementation programs agreed upon during preparation and confirmed during
negotiafions, as was frequently evidenced by changes in project scope. The postponement of project
implementation deadlines increased costs, which had a considerable impact on the attaning original
objectives. Every effort must be given to ensuring that initial schedules are observed. ID:A also needs to
guarantee timely project execufion through adequate supervision. The Malagasy Government needs to
ensure counterpart financing and observe the covenants and other measures contained in the credit
agTeements.
The insoitutional capacity of the executing agency needs to be carefully assessed. In many of the past
iniciatives, project implementation was negatively impacted by the limited resources (both human and
financial) of the Malagasy Govertment Weak administrative performance resulted in delays in
equipment procurement; the evaluafion of bids; preparafion of contracts; and approval of amendments
to contracts. Delays in contracting and payments to contractors were partly due to insufficient
counterpart funding. Weak administrative performance could be attributed to shortages in qualified
personnel, discontinuity in mid-level staff assignments, and cumbersome administrafive procedures.
Technical assistance and solutions like the use of procurement agents have helped to address these
conceems, but it seems crucial that all administrative and disburscment procedures are simplified.



15
Past projects have been very amnbitious with unduly high operating targets. Future efforts should
design projects that are focused and limited in scope. Open dialogue between IDA and the
Malagasy Government is essential for a clear understanding of the context in which operating
targets and recommendations are made. This will prevent unrealistic project objectives, the setting
of unduly  high  operating targets, and  executing  agencies implementing  World  Bank
recommendations out of context.
Past experience has shown that project outcome could be enhanced by improving information sharing
inside and outside of the executing agency. The wide circulation of a regularly updated progress report
on all operations was particularly useful because it constituted an aggregated and reliable source of
information. An effective system for managing the information required for supervision and
implementation completion reporting has also been useful.
Frequent donor coordination meetings are essential to the success of some initiatives. Organized donor
meetings prevented divergent courses of action among donors, which are sometimes exacerbated by
conflicting personalities among donor representatives or the excessive influence of in-house long-term
consultants.
The road projects have resulted in a shared view about the importance of road maintenance. Delays in
implementing effective maintenance programs have been attributed to a lack of resources (equipment,
limited funds, management skills, etc.). Autonomous contracting agency(ies) should manage the
maintenance programs, and private contractors should undertake maintenance works as opposed to
force account. Fostering the effective development of the local construction industry to undertake
maintenance works was also highlighted as a key priority.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In 1993, Madagascar presented the donor community a national transport plan prepared with IDA
financing. Thereafter, the government's commitment to install a comprehensive transport sector strategy
is documented by the following milestones:
(i) A Transport Task Force (GTIT) involving all interested sector ministries prepared a major transport
program for 2000. As part of this exercise, the GTIT has already prepared a policy and strategy
document, a master plan, an action plan which defines the legal framework for the sector, a document
detailing the pipeline of physical projects considered for the sector, and a final document synthesizing
the four previous documents. All these documents have been discussed with IDA;
(ii) In close consultation with IDA, MOTM has prepared a transport policy letter indicating the
government's strategy for the years ahead. MOPW has also prepared a strategy for the road sector
detailing the implementation of its reform program;
(iii) GOM has also produced an economic policy document, which clearly spells out priorities for
Government action, in particular the new orientation for the transport sector, focusing on state
divestment from transport services and operations and on the corporatization and/or privatization of
productive activities in infrastructure provision;
(iv) GOM has moved ahead with the privatization and/or concessioning of sector parastatals and other
transport facilities with the support of the IDA-financed Private Sector Development and Capacity
Building Project (Credit 2956MAG). During project preparation, MOTM has also prepared the legal
and regulatory framework for the progressive liberalization of air transport services, the concessioning
of airport facilities, the setting up of an autonomous Regulatory Agency for Civil Aviation (ACM), as
well as initiating legislation for creating autonomous port agencies and an autonomous regulatory
agency for ports and shipping; and
(v) A Road Fund was recently created, with its Board dominated by private sector representatives, a



16
road fee established, and mechanisms for the collection and channeling of revenues to the fund account
are already in place.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project
Through its long-lasting association with Madagascar, IDA has developed a deep knowledge of the
country's transport sector. Recently, IDA has assisted the government in formulating its transport
strategy and in liberalizing the sector. IDA is therefore well prepared to assist in the implementation of
the government transport reform program.
IDA has also been strongly associated with the reform process in road management and financing-
directly and through the Road Management Initiative (RMI) and the Rural Travel and Transport
Program (RTTP). This reform program has produced synergies with the French Cooperation and the
European Union. As to the operations of the recently created Road Fund, IDA's cross-country
experience also gives it a unique advantage in combining international best-practices with the specifics
of Madagascar.
In the shipping and port sub-sector, IDA has also played an important role in the restructuring process
being implemented at the main port of Toamasina, and in the liberalization of shipping and port
services. IDA is therefore well positioned to help move the process further ahead, in particular in the
concessioning of commercial activities in Toamasina, and in the creation of autonomous port authorities
for secondary and tertiary ports. IDA's involvement in the other Indian Ocean ports-and with shipping
conferences serving the region, in particular in Mauritius, Mozambique, and Tanzania-gives it another
advantage in addressing issues related to the maritime sector.
As to the aviation sub-sector, IDA has important advantages to offer. The experience gained with the
recent liberalization of air transport in Latin America, and IDA's ongoing dialogue with the Southern
Africa Transport and Communications Commission (SATCC) and neighboring countries about the
harmonization of more liberalized policies are unique.
As to the railways, IDA has by now accumulated a substantial experience in designing successful
concession arrangements, ranging from the high-trafficked Latin America railways to the relatively
lower-trafficked African-ones. IDA is therefore in a position to add value in matters related to the
independent financial advisory services; social protection of displaced workers; risk allocation between
the conceding authority and the concessionaire; internalizing regulatory issues into the concession
contracts, including environment and safety; minimizing emerging post-privatization issues through
appropriate contract design; and dispute settlement.
The important involvement of IDA in Madagascar and the strategic focus provided by the Country
Team are also instrumental in impact of the assistance to the transport sector, through articulation with
the civil service reform program; privatization program; and decentralization strategy, as well as
through several linkages, particularly in terms of growth and poverty alleviation; fiscal policy;
agricultural development; public expenditure programming; and environmental mitigation.
IDA's comparative advantage in contributing to the reform and development of the transport sector are
well recognized by the stakeholders active in Madagascar, including the donor community, the private
sector, and theNGO's.



17
E: Summary Project Analysis:
(detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[xj Cost-Benefit Analysis: APL-1 NPV (@12%) =USS 23.1 million;
EIRR (weighted by Investment) = 24.0 %
(i)    APL-1
The investments under the organizational restructuring and the improvement of economic infrastructure
components were subject to cost-benefit analysis. Investments in the development of the regulatory
framework, which are mostly complementary to the privatization of parastatals undertaken under the
IDA-financed Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project (Credit 2956MAG), were
assessed on a cost-effectiveness basis. Physical investments on emergency coastal protection and other
investments on environmental mitigation were also assessed on a cost-effectiveness basis.
The cost-benefit analysis has been carried out at several levels in accordance with the project's
comprehensive nature, involving investments across a number of sub-sectors. Individual sub-projects
have been appraised, and the consolidated investment package of APL-1 has alsG been assessed. In the
case of the road sub-sector, an appraisal of the restructuring of the MOPW has also been done. A
discount rate of 12 percent has been used; it represents fairly the opportunity cost of capital in
Madagascar.
The program of physical works proposed for the road sub-sector addresses the project objective of
infrastructure renewal. Benefits from the investments in periodic maintenance are expected to flow
predominantly from the reduction in vehicle operating costs and from time savings that arise as a result
of improvement in the condition of the roads selected for treatment. IDA consultants undertook an
initial strategic appraisal of investment alternatives for some 8,500 km of Madagascar's primary road
network. Various mutually exclusive expenditure strategies were simulated for the primary road
network and subject to cost-benefit analysis using the Bank developed Highway Design and
Maintenance Model (HDM-Release III). This assessment was based on physical measurements of road
condition made available by MOPW, and based on a sound methodology developed with the assistance
of the French Cooperation. The rehabilitation and periodic maintenance costs were estimated for 1999
by MOPW and reviewed by IDA staff. Vehicle operating costs were similarly updated to 1999, based
on past consultant studies.
The initial traffic estimates for the road sections examined were obtained from traffic counts undertaken
between 1994 and 1998 and updated to 1999. A detailed analysis of fuel sales and vehicle fleet data
showed that growth in road transport activity has exceeded the growth in the economy. Traffic forecasts
were prepared for the period through to 2022, and traffic growth is expected to exceed economic growth
over the project horizon. The difference in growth rates between the economy and traffic should narrow
in later years as the economy matures.
As a result of the strategic analysis at the network level, and taking into account the roads already being
financed by the EU and the ADB, four primary roads totaling 527 km have been selected for periodic
maintenance under APL-1. The EIRR of these individual road sub-projects lies between 14.0 percent for
RN 25-45 and 25.6 percent for RN 44-3A, with the overall package having a consolidated EIRR of 19.5
percent (weighted by investment), and an NPV of US$ 9.6 million. Sensitivity tests indicate that all the
sub-projects, except RN 25-45, remain viable under assumptions of an increase in construction costs of
20 percent and a decrease in net benefits of 20 percent. The proposed investments in RN 25-45, and the
foreseen evolution of traffic levels, should be carefully monitored during project implementation.
The restructuring of the MOPW is designed to help the government divest productive activities that can
be more efficiently executed by the private sector. The project will finance a comprehensive program of
technical assistance and training designed to equip the new organization for the planning, contracting,



18
management, and supervision of maintenance works that will increasingly be carried out by the private
sector. Provision is also made under the project to corporatize the production units of the MOPW with a
view to enable their later privatization, as well as for training private sector construction companies to
further develop their management skills. The benefits of MOPW's restructuring will consist primarily of
increased productivity in the execution of road rehabilitation and maintenance works by the newly-
corporatized units and the small domestic contractors. The NPV of this component is estimated at
US$4.4 million and the EIRR at 25.6 percent. Even under assumptions of a 20 percent increase in costs
and a reduction of 20 percent in the estimated productivity gains, investments in this component would
still yield an EIRR above 18.4 percent.
The port sub-projects are designed to arrest productivity declines in the western ports of Mahajanga and
Toliary, which have been caused by the deterioration of physical infrastructure in the ports. Recently,
the private sector has become involved in both ports and has made investments in cargo handling
equipment The full benefits of these private-public partnerships cannot be realized without significant
rehabilitation works to quays, land-side approaches, and backup areas.
The proposed investments in both ports will reduce the number of ship days per unit of cargo because of
increased productivity in shore-based cargo handling and in ship turnaround. The estimated EIRR for
the investments at Mahajanga is 29.8 percent, and at Toliary is 27.5 percent. The economic feasibility of
both projects is robust with sensitivity tests showing that the EIRR remains at above 21.0 percent in the
case of a 20 percent increase in construction costs and a 20 percent decrease in benefits
The project will finance a program of navigation works and landing stage improvement to assist the
further development of river transport in Western Madagascar. The hinterlands of the Sofia and
Tsiribihina Rivers offer significant agricultural potential. Currently, a considerable area of land suitable
for cash crop production is not being cultivated because of a lack of river transport at critical times of
the year. The works proposed under APL- I will lead to an extension of the navigation system through
channel improvement. Landing stages will facilitate the movement of goods and passengers.
Studies carried out for the MOTM show that the benefits accruing to the Sofia River sub-project will
arise largely from the expansion of the area under cash crop cultivation. A substantial increase in the
export trade in rice is expected to materialize following the proposed investment. There will also be
cotton production, something for which the Sofia River hinterland is ideally suited. The benefits of the
Tsiribihina River sub-project following the extension of the navigation season and the deepening of
navigation channels will arise from savings to medium-distance passenger travel and goods trade,
savings to local passenger traffic, growth in the emerging tourism industry, and from the net value
added of induced agricultural production. The EIRR of the investments in the Tsiribihina River,
including a complementary investment of rural roads to provide access to riverside landing stages for
surplus cash crop production, is estimated at 15.2 percent while the EIRR for the investments at the
Sofia River is estimated at 24.5 percent. The EIRR remains above 12 percent for the sensitivity tests
carried out on the basis of a construction cost increase of 20 percent and of a benefit reduction of 20
percent.
(ii)    Subsequent APLs
A number of investment proposals considered for implementation later in the project have been
submitted to pre-feasibility screening at the time of appraisal. These investment proposals cover
physical investments under private/public partnerships in the railways and airport sub-sectors; a rural
road program; a primary road rehabilitation program; and a staff redeployment program. The pre-
feasibility screening reflects the data available at the time of appraisal, and in no way is intended to
replace a full beneftt/cost analysis prepared prior to the triggering of each APL.
The RN CFM has suffered a significant loss of traffic because of a lack of investment funds for the
renewal of track and equipment. At present, the GOM is negotiating with a potential concessionaire to
operate the RN of the CFM over a 20-year period. The investment costs include an initial tranche of



19
US$ 20.7 million over the first five years of operation. For the most part the concessionaire will bear
this cost, although the government has been asked to help provide a complementary multimodal
terminal in Antananarivo. The concessionaire further proposes to provide a severance package to 460
workers whose services will not be required under concession operation.
The benefits of the concessioning of the RN CFM arise from the recapture of traffic that has largely
transferred to the more reliable road mode. Whilst the RN CFM carried 211,000 mt of traffic in 1998,
the potential concessionaire's business plan indicates that traffic will be recaptured quickly, growing to
580,000 mt in the fifth year of concession operation. The avoided costs of road transport make up the
majority of benefits, but the multimodal terminal and the redeployment of surplus RN CFM staff
elsewhere in the economy also enhance the viability of the proposal. The pre-feasibility analysis
indicates that the total investment in the concessioning of the RN CFM would yield an EIRR of 29
percent. The sensitivity tests show that the economic robustness of the proposed concessioning, with the
estimated EIRR remaining at over 20 percent in the case of increases in either investment costs or
operating costs. The viability of the sub-project is sensitive to assumptions about avoided costs of road
transport in that a 20 percent reduction in recaptured traffic considerably lowers the EIRR yet to a still
attractive 13.6 percent. As to the concessioning of the Southern Railway, it is unlikely that investments
can be justified on a diverted-traffic basis only. The economic rationale for a minimum investment
program will have to be built upon the substantial positive externalities in terms of environmental
preservation as anticipated by the USAID team working in the railways area of influence.
As part of the restructuring of the civil aviation sub-sector, a program of renewal and rehabilitation of
secondary and tertiary airports is proposed under APL-2. An indicative switch-off analysis has been
carried out and indicates that the viability of investments in specific airports will have be confirmed in
the course of a detailed examination which will be undertaken under a study financed under APL-1.
The rural road component proposed for implementation under APL-3 will involve the rehabilitation and
upgrading of some 1,000 km of rural roads in various parts of the country. An indicative switch-off
analysis indicates that the breakeven level of traffic for rural roads is of the order of 100 vehicles per
day. For lesser trafficked roads, a separate analysis indicates that only a very small percentage of road
hinterlands need be brought into production of mixed food and cash crops to render the upgrading of
these roads viable.
Under APL-4, it is proposed to upgrade about 900 km of the primary road network to be implemented
between 2002 and 2007. A preliminary economic scrutiny based on the network-wide analysis carried
out for APL-1, and based upon the same assumptions, indicates that that the program identified has a
positive NPV above US$50 million, at a 12 percent discount rate, and an EIRR over 20 percent.
During APL-2, a social protection program will be prepared to mitigate the impact of privatization and
restructuring on surplus staff of the MOPW and the MOTM, as well of associated agencies. The MOPW
and the Civil Service Reform Committee have drawn up an organization plan for the restructured
central establishment of the MOTP. Based on this plan, there will be estimated 800 surplus staff
members for the new organization, as a result of restructuring the two ministries and associated
agencies. The costs of the social program include redundancy packages and training for surplus staff.
The benefits arise from the redeployment of surplus staff elsewhere in the economy and from the unpaid
salaries, as valued at their opportunity costs. Results of this preliminary analysis indicate an NPV, at a
12 percent discount rate, in excess of US$ 2.2 million and an EIRR of about 42 percent. In view of the
uncertainty of this component, stochastic risk analysis was also used to test the results of the assumed
base case scenario. As a result, and when risk is factored into the analysis, the most likely value for the
EIRR for this component is about 31 percent, thus considerably lower the value estimated for the base
deterministic scenario. Even so, there is a 100 percent certainty level that the EIRR for this component
will be 20 percent or more, thus well above the 12 percent value assumed for the opportunity cost of
capital in Madagascar.



20
2.     Financial (supported by Annex 5)
[x] FinancialAnalysis (in constantprices): APL-1 NPV(@,6.5%)=US$ 0.0 million;
EIRR (weighted by Investment) = 6.5 %
Under the project, the financial base of infrastructure provision and maintenance will be considerably
strengthened. Road maintenance activities will be supported by a more equitable system of specifically
targeted road user charges channeled through the Road Fund which, in turn, will progressively reduce
the demands on the general revenue account. The RNCFM will experience significant asset renewal,
and enhanced operations will contribute to government finances through payment of concession fees to
the government. The autonomous regulatory agencies for aviation and for shipping and ports will also
have their dedicated financing arrangements through user fees. The financial analysis shows that cost-
recovery of the proposed port and river transport investments through specific user fees can be achieved
without unduly affecting sub-project viability through a loss of trafftc. The switch-off analysis carried
out for the rehabilitation of secondary airports, although preliminary, shows that a user fee on freight
and passenger traffic struck at rates pertaining in the region and designed to recover proposed
investments would be feasible.
(i)    Financial Analysis: APL-1
In the ports sub-sector, the imposition of a user charge averaging about $3 per tone of cargo would be
sufficient to recover the proposed investments. An ad-valorem basis for the user fee would be feasible
given the extremely high value-to-weight ratios of the growing exports of fish products helped by the
investments. A final decision on a port user fee structure, including the funding of the Shipping and
Ports Regulatory Agency, will be undertaken in the context of the technical assistance to the port sub-
sector undertaken during APL-1.
The proposed river transport works under APL- 1 would also require user fees. The level of such fees,
were they levied on the basis of river transport tariffs, cause an increase in tariffs of 33 percent on the
Tsiribihina River and 54 percent on tariffs charged by operators on the Sofia River. Even if a traffic loss
of about 10 percent could be expected in Tsiribihina traffic as a result of the user charges, the EIRR
would still be above 12 percent, the value assumed for the opportunity cost of capital in Madagascar.
Most of the benefits from the Sofia River improvements result from the induced production of rice and
cotton. Even if the imposition of the user fee required to ensure financial viability would reduce the net
value added accruing to new producers by about 12 percent, the proposed investment would still yield
an EIRR above the opportunity cost of capital.
Road investments also received a financial analysis. A revenue stream was identified as a function of
the level of road fee levied through automotive fuel consumption in the project roads. Overall, short-run
variable costs of road use are covered by the fee revenue stream by a wide margin, with a NPV of
US$4.8 million estimated in constant terms at a discount rate of 6.5 percent. However, and given the
uniform level of the road fee, there are some cross-subsidies between various categories of roads and
different types of vehicles. Even so, only one road, the RN 25-45, fails to meet short-run cost recovery
scrutiny. The road policy study financed under APL-1 will access the impact of these distortions and
propose corrective measures, taking also into account other taxes levied on vehicle ownership and use.
(ii)    Financial Analysis: Subsequent APLs
The financial viability of the railway and civil aviation projects subjected to pre-feasibility analyses will
be assessed in detail in the course of APL 1. Negotiations between the government and a potential
concessionaire for the operation of the RN CFM began during the Appraisal Mission. A preliminary
analysis carried out using elements of the potential concessionaire's business plan indicates that
implementation of the concession would likely have a positive impact on the government's financial
account. Most important, the value of railway assets will increase substantially through the significant
investment program envisaged. In addition, annual concession fees still under negotiation would accrue
to the General Revenue account redressing the drain on government finances that took place over the



21
last decade. A concession fee that enables the concessionaire to earn a return on investment significantly
above the cost of borrowing on international capital markets seems consistent with the traffic
assumptions of the business plan.
The switch-off analysis carried out for the component establishing private-public partnerships for the
rehabilitation and operation of secondary and tertiary airports shows that a user fee of about US$ 7 per
passenger, probably levied as a departure tax, combined with a freight charge, would allow for the
recovery of the needed investments in rehabilitation. Such a fee is in the range of departure taxes levied
in Eastern and Southern Africa. The level of the required user fee would have to be determined in
concert with other typical civil aviation charges, such as air navigation fees and landing fees. All user
fee issues will be addressed in an airport study undertaken under APL-1.
(iii)   Fiscal Impact
The project will have a positive impact on government finances through the shifting of a significant
amount of financial responsibility from the government to transport operators and users and through
increased general revenues through taxes. Road maintenance funding requirements will be met by
additional revenues raised through a new road user fee, thus reducing dependence on general revenue
funding. Additional tax revenue will also be generated through other taxes on fuel. Regarding the other
sub-sectors, in addition to user fees, which will finance capital works and maintenance expenditures, the
government will also receive tax revenues associated with component implementation.
During APL-1, the Bank and other donors will help the government address the maintenance backlog.
Currently, revenues from the road fee accruing to the Road Fund account to less than 30 percent of
maintenance expenditure of about US$9.0 million equivalent. As revenues from the road fee
progressively become the dominant source of funding for the Road Fund, so will general government
revenue funding decline. Starting in 2004, revenues from the road fee are projected to reach an
equivalent US$15.9 million, thus fully matching the estimated recurrent road expenditure requirements
on primary and rural roads from that year onwards. The NPV, at a 6.5 percent discount rate, of the
incremental fiscal revenues resulting from general taxes levied on the road fee is estimated at about
US$31 million in constant terms.
As to the Ports of Tuleara and Mahajanga, an NPV of US$6 million in constant terms, at a 6.5 percent
discount rate, is estimated from the tax revenue levied on port charges and shipping bills for incremental
traffic arising from project implementation.
Regarding the improvements on the Tsiribihina and Sofia Rivers, the NPV of the tax revenues levied on
user fees and induced agricultural production and arising from the incremental traffic and tourism flows
on the rivers is estimated at US$1.8 million, in constant terms and also at a discount rate of 6.5 percent.
Preliminary analysis indicates that the concessioning of the railways will have a positive impact on the
govermment's general revenue account. The private-public partnerships proposed for the civil aviation
sub-sector will also contribute to government coffers with no direct subsidization required. In general,
the user fee revenue accruing to transport operators and the incremental tax flows on benefits and costs
of the various sub-sector components make up the easing of what was previously a considerable burden
caused by the government's substantial presence in the transport sector.
3. Technical
Main physical project components under APL-1 include civil works and consultant services for periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation of national roads, and for port rehabilitation and the improvement of
river navigation. GOM, with the assistance of consultants, has already prepared detailed designs,
economic feasibility studies, and Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) for each sub-project,
following Terms of Reference agreed upon with IDA. The EIAs were validated by the National
Environmental Office (Office National de l'Environnement, ONE), and found compliant with the



22
recommendations of the Environmental Study for the Transport Sector undertaken during project
preparation (see 6 below). The final road designs are based on Madagascar standards, and they reflect
existing road condition and the foreseeable traffic levels. The final designs for the port and river
rehabilitation works also reflect the findings of available hydrological and maritime studies and
conform to international standards. The final design for the emergency coastal protection works will be
prepared upon effectiveness of the Credit. Contract documents, incorporating the environmental
mitigation provisions recommended by EIA and the ONE, have also been prepared for all civil works
and goods under APL-1, and were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. The specifications for
the passenger traffic control system at international airports would be prepared under a study financed
under APL-1. All terms of reference for technical assistance, training, and studies have also been
prepared in a way acceptable to IDA.
4. Institutional:
a. EXECUTING AGENCIES: As discussed in C4, the project will have two executing agencies: MOTM and
MPW. MOTM will have overall responsibility for the ports and shipping, rivers, civil aviation and
environmental components whereas MOPW will be responsible for the road components. Responsibility
for the implementation of the transport terminal, as well as the airport and railway components under
subsequent APLs, will rest with MOTM.
b. PROJECT MANAGEMENT: As also discussed in C4, project management will be entrusted to a Program
Executive Secretariat, the PES. The PES will be jointly accountable to the Minister of MOTM and to
the Minister of MOPW. The PES will ensure that all relevant stakeholders, including the private sector,
NGOs and local levels of Government are associated with project implementation. The PES will also
have overall responsibility for project accounting and financial management, procurement,
disbursements, financial and technical auditing, and project monitoring. The PES will also be used as
the focal point for strengthening the capabilities of both ministries in sector policy, financial
management, and project analysis and management, including environmental and social assessment and
mitigation. To this extent, the project will provide for required individual consultant services to be used
by PES on a need basis during project implementation. PES will also become responsible for the
implementation of donor programs, including the EU's and the ADB's.
5. Social:
A social impact assessment was carried out as part of a comprehensive environmental study for the
transport sector conducted prior to project appraisal. This was reviewed by IDA and found compliant
with IDA's guidelines on involuntary resettlement, indigenous people, and cultural property.
Although no involuntary resettlement has been identified as part of the investments financed under
APL-1, a comprehensive framework would be developed during APL-1. This framework will build
upon existing national legislation and will focus on relevant provisions to ensure that if land acquisition
is required under the project, compensation takes place at replacement value. As to indigenous people
and cultural property, no adverse impacts were identified as part of the environmental assessment
process. Nevertheless, an assessment of institutional capabilities in both ministries was carried out
during appraisal, towards ensuring that, if so required during subsequent APLs, the necessary mitigation
measures can be identified and implemented. To this extent, both MOTM and MOPW -have entered into
agreements with the ONE, which were found acceptable to IDA standards. And as pert of the APL
process, no investment would be declared eligible for IDA financing unless it is complianzt with all
safeguard policies in a way satisfactory to IDA.



23
6. Environmental assessment:         Environmental Category   X A      [ B        C c
During project preparation, a comprehensive sectoral environmental assessment for the transport sector
was canied out by Malagasy consultants at the National Center for Research on the Environment
(Centre National de Recherches sur l'Environnement, CNRE) under the PPF. This study provides a
systematic analysis of all potential biophysical and social impacts associated with the government's
transport program. The study recommends a strategy to address the adverse impacts, taking into account
the local/regional specificities of Madagascar and the different kinds of investments undertaken. The
study also provided the basis for the specific environmental impact analyses and related mitigation
measures for the sub-projects financed under APL-1. These specific analyses were approved by the
Malagasy National Environmental Office (Office National de l'Environnement, ONE), in accordance
with the country's own national legislation. As APL-1 sub-projects are concerned mainly with
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing facilities, no major negative impacts were identified.
Appropriate mitigation measures to ensure environmentally sound civil works execution are reflected in
tender/contract documentation, as agreed during Negotiations.
The sectoral EA's findings and recommendations will be applied, implemented and monitored
throughout the APL process. This will be ensured through several institutional and technical
arrangements and measures. Specific measures include: (i) formalization of the agreements entered into,
prior to negotiations, between the Ministry of Environment and the two executing ministries (through
their environmental units) to ensure that provisions under the national legislation are followed in
transport and public works programs; (ii) development of a strategy to prevent and mitigate natural
catastrophes, in particular cyclones, with technical assistance to MOTM's Meteorology Directorate; (iii)
development of a road user charge policy, taking into account incentives for drivers to save in fuel use;
(iv) development of training programs for the domestic trucking and construction industries , taking into
account environmental and social/health implications; (v) coastal protection works to strengthen critical
segments of the seashore; and (vi) technical assistance and training on environmental issues to relevant
target groups.
For subsequent APLs, all sub-projects will be subject to environmental impact assessment in accordance
with the country's environmental legislation and IDA's safeguard policies.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
During project preparation, an extensive participatory approach has been conducted and targeted at the
primary beneficiaries. Key actions have included: (i) Stakeholders Workshop for the presentation of the
methodology and findings of the sector environmental study; (ii) consultation with the NGO "Sauvons
Toamasina" in the design and phasing of the coastal protection works financed under the project (iii)
presentation by MOPW of its organizational restructuring strategy at a Civil Service Reform Workshop,
where the MOTM has also participated; (iv) regular consultations with road users representatives who
are members of the Road Fund Board; (v) ad-hoc meetings with several domestic and foreign private
investors interested in the transport sector conducted through MOTM and the Privatization
Commission; (vi) regular contacts between MOTM and MOPW and trade union representatives; and
(vii) a bottom-up participatory process undertaken through the RTTP to formulate a rural roads strategy.
A comprehensive process of information sharing and consultation will also take place during project
implementation. To this extent, the PES will have an Information and Public Affairs Officer who will
interact directly with law-makers and beneficiaries, as well as the public opinion through the media.
Moreover, participatory processes will continue to be fostered under the project through the systematic
involvement of users and beneficiaries in road financing, of local communities in decentralized
infrastructure operation and co-financing, and of users and local governments in the autonomous port
authorities, and in the Boards of the regulatory agencies for the transport sector.



24
b. Other key stakeholders:
During preparation of the project, a regular process of information sharing and consultation also
took place with the donor community. The IDA-financed government's transport program was
formally presented to the donor community; IDA mission Aide-Memoires were systematically
circulated to donor representatives; and coordinating meetings took place with EC's DGVIUI, the
EU Delegation in Madagascar, the French Cooperation, as well as with representatives from donor
embassies in Antananarivo. Regular contacts have also been maintained with the AfDB and
USAID staff. Tangible results include: (i) deep understanding and support among donors of the
government reform program; (ii) good coordination among the donors in the parallel co-financing
of components of the government's sector expenditure program; (iii) agreement in principle to have
the PES as the focal point for the implementation of all donor-financed projects, and, whenever
possible, basic procurement documents and external financial and technical audits acceptable to all
major players.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Since lack of investment sustainability has been a key lesson learned from IDA's past involvement in
Madagascar, the project has front-ended a series of key policy measures to address this issue, including,
the following: (i) stable, timely, and reliable financing of road maintenance; (ii) an autonomous Road
Fund Board, including user and other beneficiary representatives; (iii) establishment of cost-recovery
mechanisms and of more autonomous and accountable managerial structures for all transport agencies
to remain under public operation; (iv) support to a more decentralized rural infrastructure management
(roads and rivers) involving local communities, with resource-transfer from the central government
reflecting their commitment and performance at the margin; (v) privatization of main transport
operations; and (vi) development and strengthening of an autonomous regulatory framework to handle
post-privatization issues.



25
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective_
Difficult negotiations with foreign investors introduce  S     IDA will be involved, not only as
considerable delays in closing prvatization deals              financier, but also as an honest broker
providing comfort to Govemment and
investors
Peace of the restructuring and privatization
processes is affected by social concerns          M            Provision under the Project for a social
mitigation program will provide for labor
protection
Organizational reform in the two concerned
Ministries faces internal opposition              M            A continuous participatory process will
be followed in implementing the reforms
Implementation of decentralization process is more             The rural infrastructure program will be
difficult than expected                           H            managed by MOPW
Adherence to appropriate environmental protection              Social stakeholders would be
standards at the sector level is neglected        N            systematically involved in the
environmental mitigation process
From Components to Outputs
Impact of training and technical assistance in    M            Training programs and technical
strengthening regulatory capabilities is below                 assistance efforts will be continuously
expectations                                                   evaluated and follow-up assessments
conducted
Road fund revenues are not sufficient to cover    S            Road user/beneficiary involvement in
minimum maintenance requirements                               the Road Fund Board will put pressure
for improved road funding
Budgetary provisions for counterpart funds are below  M        Budgetary provisions will be regularly
requirements                                                   monitored under the rolling pluriannual
expenditure process
Overall Risk Rating                               M            expenditure_process
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
A possible controversial aspect would be the handling of any staff redundancies associated with the
privatization and organizational restructuring efforts. Although no specific provision is made under
APL-1 for financing staff redundancies, this aspect has been followed during project preparation.
Overall, both MOTM and MOPW have prepared comprehensive assessments (quantity- and quality-
wise) of the ministries' new staff requirements, as well as of their afFiliated agencies and/or of the
public enterprises under their tutelage. These assessments have taken into account new requirements
arising from the ongoing decentralization effort as well as age profile and contractual status. As
highlighted in E-7, results of these assessments have already been presented to stakeholders. For staff
employed by public enterprises, relevant provisions of the labor law would apply, whereas civil servants
are covered by the applicable statutory regime. Still uncertainties prevail as to the applicable regime,
particularly concerning the conditions applicable for employees under short-term contracts with the
administration, and this may be creating undue anxiety among government workers. In order to mitigate



26
this aspect, clarification will be sought from the government under the project as to the application of an
equitable and fair treatment for workers under short-term contracts. Furthermore, the project would
provide financing for the preparation of social mitigation plans for all affected workers.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Conditions for negotiations:
The following conditions for negotiations have been met in a way satisfactory to IDA:
(a) Approval by the GOM of the final Letters of Transport Sector Policy and of Road Strategy
(b) Project Implementation Plan prepared
(c) Terms of Reference for the PES approved by MOTM and MOPW
(d) Plan of action to increase the revenues accruing to the Road Fund during project
implementation, and for the clarification of the status of the Road Fund Board as an autonomous
entity
(e) Domestic counterparts funds for 2000 budgeted
(f) Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the financial management action plan
2. Condition for effectiveness:
The following are conditions for effectiveness:
(a) Joint appointment by the Minister of MOTM and the Minister of MOPW of the Executive
Secretary for the PES on terms of reference already approved by IDA
(b) Appointment of the Financial Management and Procurement Advisors for the PES on tefms of
reference already approved by IDA
(c) Appointment of the Chief Accountants, Accountants, and Procurement Specialists for the units
in MOTM and MOPW, on ternms of reference already approved by IDA
(d) Two Project Accounts established, one for MOTM and another for MOPW, and agreed amounts
for required counterpart funds deposited
(e) Two Special Accounts for advanced disbursements under the Credit, one for MOTM and the
other for MOPW, established
(f) Satisfactory accounting system for project accounts established
(g) Satisfactory financial, management, and accounting system adopted by MOTM and MOPW
(h) Appointment of external auditors on terms of reference already approved by IDA
3. Legal Covenants:
(a) New legislation on autonomous ports approved fifteen months after the date of effectiveness
(b) Mid-termn review carried out 18 months after effectiveness



27
H: Readiness for Implementation
The engineering design documents for all civil works under the project have been completed in a way
satisfactory to IDA, except for the emergency coastal protection works, which will be carried out
immediately after Credit effectiveness.
All specifications for equipment procured under the project have been prepared to IDA standards,
except for the system for the control of passenger traffic in international airports, which will be defined
under a study initiated immediately after Credit effectiveness.
Terms of reference for all technical assistance, training and studies under the project have been prepared
in a way satisfactory to IDA.
All the procurement documents for goods, works, and consultant services financed under the project
have been prepared to IDA standards.
The Project Implementation Plan has been prepared and agreed upon with IDA during negotiations.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Pedro Geraldes
Sector Manager: Yusupha Crookes
Country Director: Hafez Ghanem



28
Annex 1: Project Design Summary (Phase-1)
Narrative Summary           Performance Indicators            Monitoring        &  Assumptions/Risks
Supervision
CAS Objective:                                                                     [CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
*  Strengthening the public    * Privatization of Air Madagascar    * Follow-up with the   * Private investors and operators
sector's ability to deliver                                  Privatization        will perform in accordance with
quality services and     * Privatization of MOPWs           Commission            concession contracts
create an enabling         construction units
business environment
* Signing of concessions for the
Northern Railways, and primary
airports
* Private provision of operations at   * Follow-up with the
the main Port of Toamasina       Taomasina Port
Authority
* Autonomous regulatory          * Enactment of        * Government will allow an arms-
framework for aviation and for   regulations for     length relationship with new
shipping and ports operational   existing Legislation    regulatory authorities
*  Natural resource                                           * Implementation of   * Environmental awareness of
management to reduce                                        agreement            sector Ministries
degradation and develop                                     between the ONE
eco-tourism potential.                                      and the
MOTM/MOPW
Project Development         ImpacVOutcomes:                                        fDevelopment Objective to CAS
Objectives:                                                                         Objective]
* Reduce transport costs and   * Greater competition in       * Number of airlines   * The Project Development
sustainably improve         international air transport services    serving         Objectives are closely related
accessibility especially in                                   Madagascar            to the CAS Objectives
rural areas
* Reduction of average transit cost  * Port statistics and
and time in main trade corridors  results of trade
facilitation audit
* Improved accessibility from    * Reduction in road
remote areas of the country to the    travel time and
main production and consumption  costs, and all-
centers                          weather passability
* Increase in the percentage of  * Regular condition
national road infrastructure in  surveys by MOPW
good condition
* Recommendations of             * Environmental
environmental impact             monitoring system
assessments systematically taken
into account by MOTM and
MOPW



29
Environmental and social   * Social mitigation plans for    * Acceptability by
protection                   workers displaced by              interested
restructuring and privatization  stakeholders,
approved                         including trade
unions
Project Outputs:                                                                    [Output to Development
Objective]
* Operationalization of the  * Enactment of regulations        * Supervision        * Success of technical
Civil Aviation Regulatory                                      missions             assistance
Agency
Implementation of management * Project monitoring
system                           by PES
* Creation of the Ports and  * Approval of Legislation by      * Supervision        * Financial independence for the
Shipping Regulatory Agency    Congress                         missions             Agency established
* Creation of Autonomous                                                            * Appropriate articulation with
Port Authorities for                                                                decentralization policy
secondary and tertiary ports
* Restructuring of MOTM and                                                         * Acceptability by existing staff
MOPW
* Development of the         * Increase in the percentage of   * Program monitoring  * Sustainability in road
domestic private sector     road contracts awarded to small    by PES               maintenance funding
domestic contractors
* Improvement in the levels of                         * Success of technical
service provided by transport                          assistance
operators
* Trade facilitation         * Action plan for implementation of  * Supervision     * Good cooperation by Customs
the recommendations of the       missions              and Defense Authorities
facilitation audit
* Sustained funding for road    * Increased percentage of      * Program monitoring  * Approval by Government of the
maintenance                  maintenance funding               by PES               recommendations of the Road
requirements raised through the                        Fund Board
Road Fund
* Formulation of a road      * Action plan for implementation  * Supervision        * Government approval of price
transport policy                                               mission               adjustments
* Formulation of a rural roads   * Financing mechanism for                          * Difficulties in implementing
strategy                     recurrent maintenance at                               decentralization policy
subnational level, and an
allocative process which provides                    * Willingness to pay, even in
incentives for the mobilization of                     kind, by local communities
local resources
* Preparation of an economically-                      * Mobilization of domestic
prioritized   program   for  the                       counterpart funds
rehabilitation of 1,500 km of rural
roads



30
* Protection of the maritime  * Ratification of the MARPOL and                     * Mobilization of resources for
and port environment        OPRC Conventions                                       implementation
* Preparation of a strategy for  * Action plan for implementation of               * Appropriate definition of
natural catastrophe         strategy                                               priorities
prevention and mitigation
* Arrest of coastal erosion at   * Coastal protection works   * Project monitoring  * Agreement between MOPW
Toamasina and Morondava                                       by PES               and local NGOs, namely
'Sauvons Toamasina'
* Improvement of economic  * Improvement of the  Ports of *  Project               * Cost-effective and timely
infrastructure              Toliary and Mahajanga              monitoring by       completion of works
PES
* Improvements in the Rivers
Tsiribihina and Sofia
* Periodic maintenance of 527 km
of national roads



31
ANNEX 1
Attachment I
Summary Program Cost Estimates for the APL-1, APL-2, APL-3, and APL-4
(costs in nominal USS million)
Program Activities                          Estimated Costs                 Financing
APL-1    APL-2    APL-3    APL-4   Total  IDA   GOM
Phase-I
1. Regulatory reform and private sector development  7.9                               7.9    7.9    0.0
2. Organizational restructuring and sector policy  12.6                                12.6   12.6   0.0
3. Environmental protection                        15.2                                15.2   14.5   0.7
4. Improvement of economic infrastructure          30.3                                30.3   28.5   1.8
Subtotal Phase-I                                 66.0                                66.0   63.5   2.5
Phase-2
1. Strengthening of conceding authority functions            2.1                       2.1    2.1    0.0
2. Financing of prvate/public partnerships in secondary     19.8                       19.8   15.7   4.1
and tertiary airports, railways, and transport terminals
3. Social protection                                         2.2                        2.2    1.5    0.7
Subtotal Phase-2                                           24.2                       24.2   19.3   4.9
Phase-3
1. Support to decentralization                                        3.2              3.2    3.2    0.0
2. Rehabilitation and improvement of 1,000 km of rural                36.7             36.7   30.7   6.0
roads
Subtotal Phase-3                                                   39.9             39.9   33.9   6.0
Phase-4
1. Organizational restructuring and sector policy                              3.2      3.2    3.2    0.0
2. Environmental protection                                                    7.7      7.7    6.0    1.7
3. Improvement of economic infrastructure                                     110.2   110.2  85.7   24.5
Subtotal Phase-4                                                             121.1   121.1  94.9   26.2
TOTAL ALL PHASES                                  66.0     24.2      39.9    121.1   251.2  211.6  39.6



32
ANNEX I
Attachment 2
Trigger Indicators under the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) Instrument
The transport sector reform and development program will be implemented in four phases, each phase
having well defined objectives and scope. IDA will support each phase distinctly through a new Credit.
The project described in this PAD refers to Phase-I of the program, as in the logical framework matrix
in Annex 1. Each subsequent phase would be appraised in order to evaluate its technical, economic,
financial, environmental and social feasibility, following criteria satisfactory to IDA, and factoring in
the experience gained in the implementation of previous phase(s). This approach of learnig by doing
will allow for continuous adjustment as GOM's reform progress advances, thus factoring in a risk
management strategy based on the early identification of risks and the timely implementation of
corrective measures. In order to help incorporate adjustments in project design, facilitate the appraisal
process of each new phase, and determine its readiness for integration into the program, triggering
indicators have been identified as indicated in the following table. They would be assessed and
measured as part of the monitoring and evaluation system in place and reviewed during appraisal of
each Phase to confirm its objectives and scope. Whenever the specific triggering indicators for each
phase are met at any time, there would be a policy review of key milestones that should have been
achieved by that time. These milestones are part of the time-bound action plan attached to the
government's Letters of Transport Sector Policy and of Road Strategy (Annex 9). Therefore, the
triggering of any phase would first require the satisfactory completion of that policy review.



33
Trigger Indicators
Assessing Sector Reform and Development                                                    Means of Verification
APL-2          APL-3           APL-4
Regulatory Agencies for civil aviation and  Technical                                  Satisfactory results of the
ports autonomously discharging technical  assistance and                               activity completion and follow-up
and economic regulatory functions      training                                        surveys
programs
successfully
completed
Progress in privatizing the railways,   Concession                                     Residual public financing
secondary and tertiary airports, and    agreements                                     requirements identified, and
transport terminals                     signed                                         technical, economic, financial,
and environmental and social
assessment of the proposed
investments completed
Revenue from concession fees
to ensure, at least, cost
recovery of public investment
Social mitigation packages for
each transport enterprise and
agency to be privatized agreed
with trade unions
Environmental protection
measures appropriately
incorporated into concession
agreements and in public
investments
Social protection measures for redundant Social                                        Social mitigation packages for
staff under MOTM                        mitigation                                     staff under MOTM and agencies
plans prepared                                under its tutelage agreed with
to IDA                                        trade unions
standards
Environmental process fully internalized into  Satisfactory                            Favorable opinion by ONE and
the operating practices of MOTM         environmental                                  social stakeholders
assessments
regularly
conducted
Financial management improved in MOTM    Success in                                    Compliance with requirements
implementing                                  for implementation of the LACI
the action plan                                initiative
for financial
management



34
Development of the rural transport strategy            Participatory                   Strategy agreed by Central and
preparation of                 local Governments and
the strategy                   interested communities
completed
Preparation of rural and village road program          Program                         Pipeline of 1000 km of rural and
completed and                  village roads prepared, in
approved                       accordance with technical,
economic, financial, and
environmental and social criteria
acceptable to IDA
Appropriate funding mechanisms for rural               CentraVlocal                    Level of finance required to
infrastructure                                         financing                       ensure maintenance of project
framework  in                  rural and village roads secured
place                          on a sustainable way
Progress in involving beneficiaries in rural           Involvement of                  Bilateral agreements between
road management                                        beneficiary                     MOPW and beneficiary
communities in                 communities signed
road
maintenance
secured
Environmental mitigation measures in place             Rural                           Participatory environmental
environmental                  auditing mechanisms adopted
protection
manual
approved
Preparation of the river navigation program                            Program         Pipeline of investments
completed  and  prepared, in accordance with
approved       technical, economic, financial,
and environmental and social
criteria acceptable to IDA
Involvement of
Progress in invoMng beneficiaries in river                             beneficiary     Bilateral agreements between
management                                                             communities in  MOTM and beneficiary
river operations  communities signed
and
maintenance
secured
Environmental
Environmental process fully internalized into                          protection      Favorable opinion by ONE and
the operafing practices of MOPW                                        measures        social stakeholders
followed    for
100%  of road
subprojects
Road Fund revenues to meet
Appropriate     100% of routine maintenance
Performance of the Road Fund                                           allocations     expenditures
under the road
fund for various  Rural road to benefit, at least,
categories   of from 15% of total allocations
roads           from the Road Fund
Required        Equipment force account
legislation     establishment liquidated and
Progress  in  the  commercialization  of                               approved        assets disposed thereof
productive functions within MOPW                      .



35
UPAs privatized
Required       80% of maintenance works in
legislation    value terms contracted out to
Progress by MOPW in outsourcing works                               approved        the private construction and
and services with private suppliers                                                 consulting industry
Social         Social mitigation packages for
mitigation plans  MOPW and for each public
Social protection measures for redundant                            prepared to IDA  enterprise and agencyunder its
staff under MOPW                                                    standards      tutelage agreed with trade
unions
Success    in  Compliance with requirements
implementing    for implementation of the LACI
Financial management improved in MOPW                               the action plan  initiative
for   financial
management



36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Detailed description ofAPL-1 (costs indicated are base costs, without physical andprice contingencies)
Regulatory Reform and Private Sector Development Component
- US$ 7.6 million
This component will be targeted at strengthening the regulatory framework created during project
preparation and at developing the domestic small private sector active in the transport sector. As
detailed below, this component comprises a number of sub-components.
(i)    Regulatory Frameworkfor Civil Aviation - US$3. 5 million
As part of the modernization and restructuring process the MOTM is going through, as well as the
transfer of the air transport related public companies to the private sector, the GOM has decided to
create ACM, a new technically and financially autonomous civil aviation authority. As part of this
process, the GOM has also decided to develop and implement a new regulatory and legal framework for
civil aviation. Technical assistance services, training and equipment would be provided under this sub-
component to strengthen the capacity of ACM. The technical assistance would be aimed at
implementing the regulations of the Civil Aviation Law, approved by Congress during project
preparation, and at the development of the agency's management information system. At the moment of
the creation of ACM, and following the recommendation of IDA-financed consultant studies, job
descriptions were prepared and key positions filled in by competitive recruitment. Staff was also
picked-up from the existing Directorate within MOTM to fill-in remaining positions. In order to enable
this staff to acquire modem technical and economic regulatory skills, a training program will be
financed under this component. Moreover, and in order to allow the new Regulatory Agency to benefit
from quickly evolving regional'and international experience in the discharge of independent regulatory
functions, their active participation in international networks would also be pursued under this
component. This training effort would be complemented by a training of trainers program targeted at
strengthening the capacity of ENEAM to train qualified staff for airport operations. The strengthening
of this capacity in Madagascar's public sector is a key element to facilitate the privatization of
secondary airports, which necessarily will generate a demand for qualified local staff. Financing under
the Credit will be provided for training, technical assistance, and network management services for civil
aviation. Furthermore, consultant services will be provided for the assessment of the most cost-effective
way to install a computerized system for real time control of the flow of passengers using Madagascar's
international airports. The implementation of this system, also to be financed under this component, will
enable long-term tourist and business visas to be issued at arrival. This sub-component will be executed
by MOTM.
(ii)    Port Subsector Reform - US$0.8 million
The draft law, and related regulations, instituting the new autonomous authorities for secondary and
tertiary ports prepared during project preparation needs to be adjusted for consistency with the new
legislation creating the Autonomous Provinces, a key element of GOM's decentralization policy. And
as part of its regulatory reform process, MOTM has decided to spin-off its shipping and ports regulatory
functions along the lines of the civil aviation reform. To this extent, the creation of an autonomous
shipping and ports regulatory agency is envisaged under the project. Support will be provided under the
project to GOM's port sub-sector reform through the provision of consultant services for technical
assistance and training. These services would support the precise definition of the new institutional set
up for the subsector, including the framework for discharging regulatory functions and the allocation of
operational responsibilities between the central and provincial levels; the functional relationships
between the new agencies; the preparation of needed laws and regulations; the identification of the
transitional measures to ensure an effective setting up of the new administrative structures; the



37
definition of agency functions and staff qualification requirements; the process for
recruitment/reallocation of staff; and the corresponding training requirements. The scope of the services
will focus on the setting up of an administrative and financially autonomous regulatory framework-as
well as on the preparation of model concession contracts-the framework for their award, and the
requirements for the effective supervision thereof. Following on the recommendations of the
environmental study for the transport sector, explicit emphasis will be put on the protection and
safeguarding of the environment. Furthermore, the setting up of the new institutional framework for the
subsector should provide the opportunity to systematically establish, within the port communities,
participatory arrangements to ensure compliance with environmental protection. This component will be
executed by MOTM.
(iii)   Commercialization/iquidation ofMOPW's Construction Units - US$1.0
A key element in MOPW's organizational restructuring is the spin-off of productive activities. These
activities range from construction, to ancillary services, such as laboratories for materials testing. Once
these activities are separated from MOPW's organizational structure they will be commercialized. For
those capable of meeting the market test, the ones operating in competitive segments will be
corporatized, with a view for their subsequent privatization. Activities not capable of meeting market
needs will be liquidated. Technical assistance will be provided under the project to assist MOPW in
identifying the relevant activities and functions capable of being spinned-off; assessing the market
prospects for these activities; evaluating assets and liabilities; preparing the corresponding articles of
incorporation; determining the needs for capitalization; and initiating liquidation processes, including
asset re-allocation and disposal, whenever required. This sub-component will be executed by MOPW.
(iv)   Domestic road transport industry- US$0.5 million
Under the GOM's transport reform program, the domestic private sector will be called upon to play a
more proactive role. Simultaneously, it would have to become more competitive if the benefits of
improved infrastructure under the project are to be passed over to producers and consumers. This is
particularly true for the road freight transport and passenger industries, the backbone of Madagascar's
transport system. The strengthening of the largely small transport operators to enhance their
entrepreneurial and managerial capacity, while increasing their safety and environmental awareness,
would be pursued under this sub-component, through one comprehensive training program to be
implemented in close cooperation with the beneficiaries. The program will also cover MOTM staff to
enable them to discharge its regulatory functions in a framework of greater market- and administrative-
decentralization. This program, including its regular evaluation and follow-up impact assessment, would
be prepared and delivered under this component. Financing under the Credit would be provided for
consultant services to prepare and deliver the training program. This sub-component will be executed by
MOTM.
(v)    Domestic construction industry - US$1.7 million
Another key element of GOM's reform program is the outsourcing of road maintenance works with
private contractors. In view of the small dimension of these contracts, and of their scattered nature, large
companies are unlikely to show interest in executing these works. However, the small domestic private
contracting industry in Madagascar is underdeveloped, since this market has traditionally been
dominated by MOPW's force account establishment. Now that the decision to create a market for small
private contracts has been taken, it is important to enhance the supply-side response through a training
program for the industry. This training program, implemented in close cooperation with the
beneficiaries, will be financed under the project through consulting services. The program will focus on
the development of entrepreneurial, managerial, and technical skills, including preparation of proposals
under public procurement, financing and financial management, and environmentally-friendly
construction techniques. The impact of the training program will be regularly assessed during project
implementation. This sub-component will be executed by MOPW.



38
(vi)   Trade and transportfacilitation - US$0.1 million
To help remove key cost and time bottlenecks in the logistic chain, the project will finance a focussed
technical assistance program, centered around the elaboration of a Facilitation Audit. This Audit will
follow the methodology established by the Bank and its partners under the Global Partnership for the
Facilitation of Transport and Trade. This process will also help MOTM reassert its role as the lead
player in the national trade and transport facilitation agenda. This sub-component will be executed by
MOTM.
Organizational Restructuring and Sector Policy Component - US$12.1 million
This component will be aimed at strengthening the capabilities of the MOTM and MOPW in regard to
policy formulation, planning, programming, budgeting, auditing, financial management, procurement,
quality control, and works monitoring.
(i)    Restructuring ofMOPW - US$S5.6 million
The implementation of MOPW's restructuring would be supported under this component. Consultant
services for technical assistance and training as well as equipment for the newly decentralized units
would be provided under the project to assist in the establishment of the transitional arrangements for
the new organizational set-up; development and implementation of new management systems and
operational procedures; restructuring and commercialization of MOPW's affiliated agencies, includihg
the LNTPB and ININFRA; and training of MOPW's staff. This sub-component will be executed by
MOPW.
(ii)    Preparation of social mitigation program - US$1.0 million
During project preparation, consultants prepared organizational restructuring programs for the MOPW
and MOTP. These studies recommended the new organizational set-up for both ministries and
associated agencies, consistently with the objectives for sector reform, as well as, with the strategy
being formulated under GOM's public sector reform program. As a result, new staff requirements,
quantity- and quality- wise, were estimated for both ministries. After taking into account staff
upgrading, re-conversion, and redeployment possibilities, a potential surplus of staff was identified. A
preliminary assessment of the feasibility of a redundancy program was also assessed, taking into
account staff age and years of service, as well as the type of staff contractual relationship with the state.
What is still missing is a specific identification of staff to be retrenched and the quantification of the
redundancy and other statutory entitlements, as well as a strategy and program for their reinsertion into
the labor market and for the mitigation of any social costs. The preparation of this program will be
financed under this component. Although falling under the responsibility of both ministries, this slb-
component will be executed by MOPW, in view of the following: first, most redundancies are expected
to follow under this ministry; and second, the ministry has been selected as a pilot agency under the
civil service reform program.



39
(iii)   Capacity-building through Program Executive Secretariat - US$4.4 million
This component will also support the establishment of a Program Executive Secretariat (PES) under the
tutelage of the Ministers of MOTM and of MOPW, as the focal point to spearhead the reform and
capacity building efforts in both ministries. Finance under the Credit will be provided for 54 man-years
of high-quality individual consultant services covering the following fields of expertise: transport sector
policy, highway management, financial management, program and contract management,
environmental/social mitigation, information and public affairs, and accounting. Additional finance
would be provided for an accounting firm to assist in developing the accounting and control systems of
both ministries and in preparing operating manuals. Computers, vehicles, communications and
reproduction equipment, software, and operating resources, would also be provided under this
component to assist the PES in discharging its functions during project implementation. Since PES will
also be responsible for managing the project's external auditing functions, finance would also be
provided under the component for the services of external financial and procurement auditors. This sub-
component will be executed by MOTM, in view of its comparative advantage in program management
and monitoring.
(iv)   Road Sector Policy - US$1.1 million
The comprehensive formulation of a -road sector policy framework will be supported under this
component. This effort would cover the preparation of equitable road user charges, regulations and
pricing issues for the trucking and passenger transport industries, inter-modal transport coordination, the
preparation of model concession agreements for land transport terminals, and the development of data
base for sector monitoring: Emphasis will also be put on the formulation of a more environmental-
friendly transport policy framework. A training program for MOTM's staff will be prepared, delivered,
evaluated, and monitored under this component. Finance would be provided under the Credit for
consultant services for the delivery of technical assistance for these study and training program. This
sub-component will be executed by MOTM.
Environmental Protection Component - US$13.6 million
From an environmental point of view, this component aim at implementing the recommendations of the
study for the environmental assessment in the transport sector and at financing urgent shipwrecking
removal and coastal protection measures which pose serious ecological and erosion treats. In addition,
financing would be provided for mitigating the impacts of national catastrophes, including, the
provision of emergency structures.
(i)    Monitoring of sector environmentalperformance - US$0.2 million
As to the implementation of follow-up measures recommended by the environmental sector study,
completed during project preparation, a training program on environmental assessment will be
conducted for staff of MOTM and MOPW and from other important stakeholders, namely from the
construction industry. Technical assistance services will be provided to ensure a better interface
between national environmental regulations and the preparation and implementation of sector
expenditure programs under both ministries. Technical assistance efforts will emphasize the
development of a regular follow-up and monitoring system for environmental performance. Although
falling under boith ministries, this sub-component will be executed by MOTM in view of its broader
mandate in environmental matters, including meteorology and catastrophe prevention and mitigation.
(ii)    National catastrophe prevention and mifigation - US$0.3 million
Consultant services will be provided to do a study and develop a strategy on natural catastrophe
prevention and mitigation. Madagascar is frequently afflicted by natural disasters, particularly tropical
cyclones, but also heavy rains and, in the case of coastal areas, extreme wave movement. The social and



40
economic daniage arising from such catastrophes is considerable. Particularly at risk are transport
facilities, such as roads, ports, railways and airports. A program of damage minimization is necessary to
assure the sustainable development of the transport sector. The goals of the study are to assemble and
maintain a data base on natural disasters, including remote sensing data and measures relating to areas
at risk throughout Madagascar, and to provide a functioning early warning system with national
coverage. Specifically, the study aims to identify zones at risk and propose appropriate anticipatory
action; upgrade and expand data collection coverage; improve data analysis methods with a view to
increasing warning intervals; and extend and enhance the dissemination of warnings and alerts. This
sub-component will be executed by MOTM.
(iii)   Emergency works and studies for coastal protection - US$5.3 million and US$1.3 million,
respectively
Financing for construction works and associated consultant services will be provided under this
component for coastal protection activities at Toamasina and Morondava. The progression of the
erosion of the coasdine on these two sites has reached proportions that seriously threaten the local social
infrastructure. This is the case of housing and business activities at Morondava, and of the high-school
and hospital at Toamasina. The project will finance the protective works that will assure the
conservation of the sites and the maintenance of the threatened activities. With regard to Toamasina,
MOPW will enter into an agreement with the NGO "Sauvons Toamasina," which has shown a deep
grass route interest in the environmental protection of the city during project preparation. This sub-
component will be executed by MOPW.
(iv)   Rafification of theMA4RPOL and OPRC Conventions- US$0.5 million
As part of the ratification process of the international conventions MARPOL and OPRC foreseen by the
GOM, MOTM is preparing a plan of action for conforming the main Malagasy ports to the requirements
of these Conventions. Among other things, this plan will cover the definition of the facilities required
for the collection and treatment of disposals, the cleaning of ships, as well as preventive measures
concerning accidental pollution. Technical assistance and training services will be provided under this
component to assist in the preparation of this action plan. This sub-component will be executed by
MOTM.
(v)    Shipwrecking removal - US$3.6 million
Wreckage, close to Madagascar's coast line, namely its eastern sea-shore, create major hazards to
shipping and often constrains the development of the country's tourism potential. Given the
complexity and the resource envelope required to fully address this problem, a pilot sub-project
will be financed under this component. This is the case of the port of Taolagnaro, where the
wreckage of the ship Well Born has become a major obstacle to the ships approaching the port.
Financing under this component will assist in the pilot operation of removal of the wreckage of the
Well Born, and in the disposal of the materials recovered following environmental guidelines
acceptable to IDA. This sub-component will be executed by MOTM.
(vi)   EmergencyMetallic structures - US$2.4 million
Madagascar has recently been affected by a series of hurricanes that have required emergency measures
by MOPW, including the rapid deployment and installation of metallic structures. As a result, the
existing stock of emergency metallic bridges has been severely depleted, and needs to be reestablished
as a preventive measure against future natural catastrophe mitigation. To this extent, and in a
complementary effort to other donors', the amount of US$2.4 million has been allocated under the
Credit for the procurement of emergency metallic structures, including bridges. This sub-component
will be executed by MOPW.



41
Improvement of Economic Infrastructure - US$27.3 million
This component would address the periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of key secondary ports, as
well as of river and road infrastructure facilities. Consultant services will also be provided under this
component for infrastructure related studies and supervision of works.
(i)    Ports and rivers - US$ 7.7 million
Financing under this sub-component is aimed at enabling the efficient operation of existing port
facilities to meet increases of specialized traffic, namely containers. Moreover, the component will also
address a pilot improvement of navigation and cargo transfer facilities in selected rivers. Specific sub-
projects under this sub-component are indicated in the following.
PORT OF TOLIARY - US$3.6 MILLION. Rehabilitation/improvement of existing facilities, including
embankment defense, roadbed for container storage, and pavement and pier of access. This sub-project
will be executed by MOTM.
PORT OF MAHAJANGA - US$3.2 MILLION. Construction of a roadbed for container storage,
modernization of 172 m of embankment, provision of an embankment protection, displacement of the
jetty for the ferry to Katepsy. This sub-project will be executed by MOTM.
RIVERS TSIRIBIHINA AND SOFIA - US$0.9 MILLION. Construction of peers, small dredging works, and
provision of storage facilities in five selected sites on the Tsiribihina River, and on two sites on the
Sofia stream. This sub-project will be executed by MOTM.
(ii)    National roads - US$9.4 million
Financing under this sub-component is targeted at the periodic maintenance of 527 km of paved
national roads of key economic importance. Specific sub-projects, to be executed by MOPW, include:
RN 25/45 (VOHIPARARA-IRONDRO AND VOHIPARARA-ALAKMISIN'AMBOHIMAHA)- 62 KM - US$2.2
MILLION. Sections 025 to 64 and 000-023, with average baseline traffic levels ranging from 120 to 200
vehicles per day.
RN 6 (AmBILOBE-AMBANJA)- 112 KM - US$1.5 MILLION. Sections 476 to 588, with average baseline
traffic levels ranging from 150 to 380 vehicles per day.
RN 35 (ANTISRABE-MIANDRIVAZO) - 222 KM - US$3.5 MILLION. Sections 000 to 222, with average
baseline traffic levels ranging from 430 to 3200 vehicles a day.
RN 44/3A (VOHIDIALA-AMBATONDRAZAKA AND VOHIDIALA-VOHITRAIVO)- 131 KM, US$2.2 MILLION.
Sections 133 to 159 and 020 to 105, with average baseline traffic levels ranging from 400 to 540
vehicles a day.
(iii)   Feasibility studies - US$8.6 million
Financing for consultant services for infrastructure feasibility studies will be provided under this
component. As indicated below, these studies will allow for the preparation of sub-projects to IDA's
technical, economic, environmental and social standards, in order to generate the pipeline for financing
under subsequent APLs.
TOURISTIC PORTS - US$0.4 MILLION. This study will be executed by MOTM.
PORT OF TOAMASINA -US$0.5 MILLION. This study will be executed by MOTM.



42
MARITiME SIGNALING - US$0.4 MILLION. This study will be executed by MOTM.
UPGRADING OF SOME 900 KM NATIONAL PAVED ROADS - US$4.0 MILLION. This study will be executed
by MOPW.
IMPROVEMENT OF SOME 1,500 KM OF RURAL ROADS - US$1.8 MILLION. This study will be executed by
MOPW.
IMPROVEMENT OF SECONDARY AND TERTIARY AIRPORTS - US$1.5 MILLION. This study will be executed
by MOTM.
(iv)   Supervision of the civil works - US$1.6 million
Under this sub-component, financing will be provided for consultant services for the supervision of the
civil works under the project, as indicated below.
To BE EXECUTED BY MOTM -US$0.3 MILLION
To BE EXECUTED BY MOPW -US$1.3 MILLION



43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Regulatory reform and private sector development             0.8             6.8            7.6
Regulatory framework for civil aviation                     0.4             3.2            3.5
Port subsector reform                                       0.1             0.7            0.8
Commercialization/liquidation of MOPWs Production Units     0.1             0.9            1.0
Development of the domestic road transport industry         0.1            0.5             0.5
Development of the domestic construction industry           0.2             1.5            1.7
Trade and Transport Facilitation                            0.0             0.1            0.1
Organizational restructuring and sector policy               1.2            10.9           12.1
Restructuring of MOPW                                       0.6            5.0             5.6
Preparation of social protection program                    0.1            0.9             1.0
Capacity-building through PES                               0.5            3.9             4.4
Road sector policy                                          0.1            1.0             1.1
Environmental Protection                                     2.4            11.2           13.6
Monitoring of sector environmental performance              0.0            0.2             0.2
National catastrophe prevention and mitigation study        0.0            0.3             0.3
Emergency Coastal Protection                                1.3            5.3             6.6
Ratification of the MARPOUOPRC Conventions                  0.1            0.5             0.5
Shipwrecking removal                                        0.7            2.9             3.6
Emergency metallic bridges                                  0.2            2.2             2.4
Improvement of Economic Infrastructure                       5.1            22.2           27.3
Port and river improvement                                  1.5            6.2             7.7
Periodic maintenance of national roads                      1.9            7.5             9.4
Preparation of feasibility studies                          1.4            7.2             8.6
Supervision of civil works                                  0.3            1.3             1.6
Total Baseline Cost                                          9.5            51.1           60.6
Physical  Contingencies  (10%   of  civil  works  and       0.4            2.4             2.8
supervision)
Price Contingencies (4% of baseline cost and phys. cont.)   0.4            2.1             2.5
Total Project Costs                    10.4           55.6           66.0
Refinancing of PPFs                     1.5            1.5
Total Financing Required, of which     10.4           57.1            67.5
Government
2.5                            2.5
IDA
7.9           57.1           65.0



44
Goods                                                    0.6           5.8            6.4
Works           -5.9                                                  23.6           29.5
Services                                                 2.5          22.7           25.2
Training                                                 0.1           0.1            0.2
Other                                                    1.3           3.4            4.7
Total Project Costs                 10.4          55.6          66.0
Refinancing of PPFS                     1.5           1.5
Total Financing Required, of        10.4          57.1          67.5
which
Govemment                                  2.5                          2.5
IDA                                        7.9          57.1           65.0



45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
A. Overview and Basic Assumptions
A variety of economic appraisals has been executed in keeping with the sectoral focus of the project.
Investments in the road/highway subsector have been assessed utilizing the Bank-developed Highway
Design and Maintenance model (HDM, Release II). The restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works
(MTP), involving the progressive transfer of road maintenance and construction functions to the private
sector, has been appraised. The benefits arising from restructuring consist primarily of enhanced
productivity in the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads.
The benefits of port investments consist of savings from reduced cargo handling times and reduced ship
delays and times in port. These have been calculated following industry practice and assessed in relation
to the construction and maintenance costs of proposed investments. Inland river transport in the western
part of the country offers tremendous potential in the development of several fertile areas. The
development of such areas will lead to increased production, which will in turn increase the incomes of
rural agricultural producers. Benefits from increased agricultural production depend upon a program of
navigation channel works and the construction or upgrading of landing stages at several points along the
Sofia and Tsiribihina Rivers. In the latter case, works to be carried out will also provide benefits to a
nascent tourism trade and to existing users of river transport.
Four pre-feasibility analyses have been carried out for investments to be considered in subsequent
phases of the Project. The Northern Railway is to be let out to concession operation, negotiations with a
prospective concessionaire having commenced in November, 1999 following an international tendering
process. The benefits of concession operation arise from the reinstatement of an efficient rail service
following a severe decline in rail capacity during the 1990's. The recapture of traffic suited for rail
transport avoids more costly road transport operations, particularly in relatively heavily trafficked
corridors such as that linking the capital of Antananarivo with the important deep sea port of
Toamasina.
The second pre-feasibility analysis concerns the restructuring of the civil aviation sub-sector, which will
see the privafization of the national airline company and the strengthening of management at the major
airports of Madagascar. The rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary airports is envisaged for APL-2 and
will enhance the efficiency of government and of the private sector, including the further development
of tourism. The secondary and tertiary airports constitute a vital lifeline in times of natural catastrophe.
A program of rehabilitation and selected upgrading of 1,000 km of rural roads has been proposed for
APL 3. A switch-off analysis of the rural road program has been carried out as the third pre-feasibility
analysis.
Under APL-4, a second set of improvements to the primary road network is proposed. To this point, the
MOPW has identified a program of periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works of $ 34 million
which has been subjected to a pre-feasibility analysis. The full program will be appraised in detail
during the course of APL- 1.
The reform program for the MOPT includes the preparation of a social plan, which will be considered
under APL-2. The reform program for the MOTM includes a reorganization of the ports and maritime
sub-sector culminating in the establishment of a national ports agency. Preliminary economic analyses
have been carried out of outline plans for the compensation and retraining of surplus MOTM and
MOPW staff.
The following basic assumptions have been considered throughout the analysis:



46
All sub-projects are defined in with- and without- project cases.
Works on the infrastructure components of APL-1 are assumed to commence in 2001.
All costs are expressed net of taxes, and capital costs have been calculated inclusive of 10 percent
physical contingencies and of 5 percent supervision costs.
No shadow price has been used in the valuation of labor or foreign exchange.
The analysis period is generally 20 years-i.e., in the case of infrastructure rehabilitation or of staff
rationalization, benefits are assumed to flow for a period of 20 years.
The discount rate has been set at 12 percent, the value assumed to reflect the opportunity cost of capital
in Madagascar.
The analysis is based on various consultant reports, which are available in the project file (see Annex 8).
B.    Road Periodic Maintenance Works (APL-1)
(i)    Background
This component relates to the facilitation of growth in the economy of Madagascar through the removal
of infrastructure bottlenecks. In order to appraise the project's rehabilitation and periodic maintenance,
the consultant firm Ramboll was commissioned to evaluate road works required to restore the primary
road network to a serviceable condition (after years of inadequate maintenance). The Terms of
Reference for the consultancy were jointly drawn up by IDA in consultation with MOPW. The works
required to restore some 8,570 km of the main roads and a majority of secondary roads to an acceptable
level of service were appraised utilizing HDM I1I. HDM models the interaction between traffic, road
condition and vehicle operating costs (VOCs) over time in the appraisal of a set of mutually exclusive
treatment options. Only sub-projects with an EIRR of greater than 12 percent were considered for
project -financing. The economic analyses of road sub-projects and of the consolidated road program for
APLI were subjected to sensitivity tests and stochastic risk analysis.
(ii)    Traffic Projecfions
The available data suggests that both the vehicle fleet and the consumption of automotive fuels,
expressed in volume terms, have grown well in advance of the rate of growth characterizing the
economy of Madagascar. Between 1994 and 1999, the GDP of Madagascar grew at a rate of 3.2 percent
pa. Over the same period, sales of automotive gasoline grew at an annual rate of 9.1 percent, while sales
of automotive diesel grew at a rate of 6.7 percent. The vehicle fleet has similarly grown at a faster rate
than GDP, with the bus fleet growing by about 14.5 percent pa and road tractors being characterized by
a growth rate of 16 percent pa between 1994 and 1997. Overall, the vehicle fleet grew by 6.4 percent
over the period 1994-97 with provisional figures for 1998 indicating a further growth well in excess of 7
percent in that year. Traffic can be expected to grow at a faster rate than GDP over the project horizon.
The low rate of motorization in Madagascar-nine vehicles of four or more wheels per 1000
inhabitants-is typical of lower income countries. Research carried out by the Bank and others confirms
that road traffic tends to grow at a faster rate than GDP in lower income countries. Average growth in
traffic flows over the primary and secondary network has been assumed to take place at an average rate
of 5.1 percent pa between 1998 and 2010 and at a rate of 4.5 percent pa thereafter.
Given the scarcity of traffic count data, the MOPW carried traffic counts in 1994 and in 1998. Network
growth factors derived from the analysis referred to in the previous paragraph were applied in the course
of the HDM II1 runs. The APL-1 program includes periodic maintenance works on some 527 km of
primary roads. Current traffic flows on the roads selected for treatment range for the most part between
140 and 500 vehicles per day although several sections on RN 34 carry significantly more traffic.



47
(iii)   Costs
The consultants prepared engineering costs in close consultation with the MOPW. The IDA Appraisal
Mission then reviewed these cost, and the various parties agreed upon a final set of unit costs.
Generally, economic costs of rehabilitation and maintenance have been derived by the application of a
factor of 0.80 to the calculated financial costs. The various elements of the vehicle operating costs were
updated during the Appraisal Mission. Vehicle acquisition costs were confirmed against regional
vehicle costs, and world prices of automotive fuels were also calculated.
Alternatives
The analysis considered a variety of alternative treatment types, including overlays, slurry seals, and
two rehabilitation/reconstruction alternatives. Initial data on current road condition was obtained from
surveys carried out by the MOPW in the last two years. The consultants confirmed the validity of road
condition assessment through a sample program of ground inspections. Road links were divided into
sections which were homogenous from condition and traffic flow perspectives for purposes of the
analysis.
(v)    Results and SensitivityAnalyses
The NPV at a 12 percent discount rate of the consolidated road program to be undertaken in APL-1 is
US$ 9.6 million and the EIRR is 19.5 percent. Individual EIRRs are 18.6 percent for the RN6; 14
percent for the RN25-45; 19.5 percent for the RN35; and 25.6 percent for the RN44-3A. The sensitivity
of the investment efficiency indicators was tested by examining the impact of a 20 percent increase in
construction costs and of a 20 percent decrease in net benefits, the latter test being consistent with a
lower than assumed rate of growth in traffic. Results of the sensitivity tests show that the EIRR of the
decreased net benefit test were slightly lower than those calculated in the increased construction cost
test. In the sensitivity analysis for cost increases, individual EIRR were above 12 percent, whereas in
the case of the decreased net benefits only the investment in one road (RN25-45) would yield an EIRR
below 12 percent.
C.    Restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works (APL-1)
(i)    Background
Another component that will be implemented in the road subsector under APL-1 is the restructuring of
the MOPW. The component has been formulated in accord with the principle that the government will,
for the most part, abandon productive activities in the transport sector. The component supports a key
project objective, which is to assist the GOM in the divestment of activities that the private sector can
accomplish more efficiently.
(ii)    Costs
The restructuring exercise will involve the delivery of technical assistance, consultancy services, and
training to various elements of the MOPW in order to convert the new central agency of the MOPW
into a management unit which plans, contracts, and oversees works carried out -by commercialized
production -units and by private sector construction companies. The production units will initially be
based upon the regional installations of the MOPW and will be prepared for privatization during APL-1.
In addition to the human resources development activities delivered under the component, certain
office, communications and transport equipment will be supplied to the fledgling production units in
order to help manage and supervise works. An ongoing training program for the production units is
assumed in order to replace retirees from the original cadre of ex-MOPW short term staff who have
been transferred to the units. During APL-1 the private construction industry also receives training.



48
(iii)   Benefits
The short-term workers, known as effectifs a court duree (ECD), are in fact temporary staff who have
gradually assumed a semi-permanent status over time. Earlier in 1999, the MOPW removed some 3,120
ECDs from the ministry's establishment and offered this category employment at the production units
which are to be established under APL-1. Some of the recently released ECDs will find immediate
employment elsewhere and it is assumed that about 93 percent of ECDs will present themselves for the
training that will be offered. It is also assumed that about 2,800 of the ECDs will complete the training
course and find ultimate employment with the production units. The training delivered should provide a
significant increase in productivity, given the low level of activity that has characterized the under-
funded MOPW road maintenance efforts in recent years. The productivity increase attributable to the
restructuring activities of APL-1 should approximate 100 percent of the current weighted average wage
of the ECDs. The output of the regional installations has been severely constrained over the past decade,
and the assumption of a doubling of productivity is realistic, given that material and spare parts
constraints will no longer hinder road maintenance. It is also assumed that the productivity enhancement
of the private sector construction firms, which will likely employ about 3,000 workers will equate to
about 90 percent of the net productivity benefit attributable to the ECDs. Allowance is made for the
ongoing training of future entrants to the production units as the existing ECDs reach retirement age.
(iv)    Results and Sensitivity Analysis
The restructuring program yields an NPV at 12 percent of US$4.4 million and an EIRR of 25.6 percent.
The sensitivity of the economic criteria was tested against the assumptions of a 20 percent increase in
restructuring costs and a reduction of 20 percent in the expected productivity increase achieved by the
trained and redeployed workers. The results indicate that the EIRR is as sensitive to an increase in
restructuring costs as to a decrease in productivity. In both cases, the EIRR remain well above 12
percent.
D.     Port Improvement (APL-1)
(i)    Background
The ports of Mahajanga and Toliary are key economic facilities on the west coast of Madagascar. The
private sector is now well established in these ports, and the proposed rehabilitation works will support
the further development of these important actors in the formal economies of the respective provinces.
The operations in both ports have relatively low cargo handling productivity, to the detriment of further
port-oriented economic development, and could be expected to deteriorate further without project cases,
thus leading to a situation in which traffic would be turned away. Both ports will ship significant
tonnage of relatively high value fish products over the project horizon if the works are implemented.
The physical works proposed will enable private sector shippers and cargo handling companies to
achieve higher cargo throughput at a lower unit cost with their recently purchased cargo handling
equipment. The improvements to the port of Toliary will allow traffic to grow from an estimated total of
151,000 mt in 1999 to the maximum throughput possible of 250,000 mt by 2007. The current traffic at
Mahajanga of 166,000 mt will grow to 222,500 mt by 2010 ,and 271,000 mt by 2020.
(ii)    Costs
The costs of works required to rehabilitate and upgrade the ports were originally prepared by
consultants between 1996 and 1998. These costs were revised during the Appraisal Mission jointly by
IDA and MOTM. The annual costs of operation and maintenance have been assumed to be 5 percent of
the capital costs.



49
(iii)   Benefits
The works proposed for Toliary, combined with investments already made by the private sector in cargo
handling equipment, will lead to significant savings in ship days spent in port. Unit cargo handling rates
for break-bulk general cargo will halve while container handling rates will undergo a 40 percent
improvement. At Mahajanga, ship days spent in port will decline as a result of the proposed works.
Cargo handling productivity benefits will also arise, thereby significantly reducing unit cost of cargo
movements.
(iv)   Results and Sensitivity Analysis
The NPV at 12 percent of the investments proposed for Mahajanga is estimated to be US$ 4.5 million,
and the EIRR is calculated at 29.8 percent. For Toliary, the proposed investment yields an NPV at 12
percent of US$ 3.6 million and an EIRR of 27.5 percent. The estimated investment efficiency criteria of
the port sub-projects have been tested in relationship to an increase in construction costs and a decrease
in port traffic flows. As regards Toliary, the EIRR reduces to 25.6 percent in the case of an increase in
capital costs and to 21.0 percent in the case that traffic growth was under 20 percent below forecast. The
Mahajanga sensitivity tests show that the EIRRs remain well above 20 percent under both the cost and
traffic sensitivity scenarios.
E.    River Transport Program (APL-1)
(i)    Background
The hinterlands of the Sofia and Tsiribihina Rivers in the west of Madagascar are have significant
agricultural potential. The Sofia River is located in Mahajanga Province, and the Tsiribihina River flows
predominantly through the Province of Toliary. The works program proposed will lengthen the
navigation seasons on both rivers by providing properly formed, navigable channels. In addition, the
provision of landing stages at selected points in the river hinterlands will facilitate the transfer of goods
and people.
(ii)    Costs
The costs of the works have been prepared by MOTM consultants and reviewed by IDA. Works are
projected to take place over two years. Subsequent annual operations and maintenance costs have been
estimated at 5 percent of the capital cost of works. The costs of vessel operation have been estimated
following conventional marine practice.
(iii)   Benefits
In the case of the Sofia River, benefits will come from the stimulus effect on agricultural production
following the provision of less expensive and more frequent access to markets. The valleys surrounding
the Sofia River offer a considerable amount of untilled land which could be quickly brought into
production once access is enhanced. The analysis carried out by MOTM consultants indicated that about
4100 ha out of a total available 6000 ha of cultivable land could be brought into production within ten
years of project opening. The net value added arising from the cultivation of a ha of rice is calculated at
about US$98 per ha while the value added of induced cotton production would be around US$107 per
ha. A small level of unspecified benefits would also accrue to travelers making local trips to market.
The traffic flows on the Tsiribihina River are considerably more complex than those on the Sofia River.
These flows include a significant medium-distance passenger trade in excess of 200,000 passengers a
year and an embryonic luxury tourist trade geared at European travelers. In addition, over 40,000 Mt of
cargo is carried each year. The benefits to existing medium-distance passenger and tourist traffic arise
from the extension of navigation seasons, allowing a more effective use of canoes and river vessels.
Additional land will be also be brought into production as transport prices fall with further development



50
of transport markets. The area of influence of the Tsiribihina River has a cultivable area of some
200,000 ha, of which only 29,000 ha are now cultivated. The combination of induced agricultural
production and natural growth in the demand for inbound shipments of basic commodities has been
forecast to increase goods traffic from 41,000 mt to 97,400 mt in 2010. Thereafter, the initial stimulus
could be expected to abate and goods traffic will grow at a rate of 2.5 percent pa.
(iv)   Results and Sensitivity Analysis
The economic analysis indicates that the investments programmed for the Sofia River would yield a
NPV at 12 percent of US$ 0.6 million and an EIRR of 24.5 percent. An increase in the capital costs of
20 percent still results in an EIRR of 22.6 percent while a similar reduction in benefits arising from
induced agricultural production still yields an EIRR of 22.2 percent. In the case of the improvements to
navigation on the Tsiribihina River, including the consideration of complementary road investments and
transport costs, the NPV at 12 percent is estimated at US$ 0.2 million and the EIRR calculated to be
15.2 percent. The provision of access routes to the river would likely be necessary in order to ensure
that benefits from induced traffic would indeed, occur. As such, a modest program of some 20 km of
rural roads at a cost of US$ 25,000 per km and an annual maintenance cost of US$ 1,000 per year was
included in the analysis. An increase of 20 percent in the capital costs of the Tsiribihina sub-project or a
reduction of 20 percent in the induced production attributable to the project, would still yield an EIRR
which above 12 percent.
F.     Concessioning of the Northern Railways RN CFM (APL-2, pre-feasibility analysis)
(i)    Background
The GOM is now discussing operation of the Northern railway network with a potential operator. The
railway has steadily lost traffic over the past decade because of a lack of investment. This has brought a
relative neglect of track and equipment maintenance, which has in turn sharply reduced the frequency
and efficiency of operations. In response, the traffic on offer has declined as shippers have switched to
the more reliable road mode. The consultants SOGELERG-ICEA have recently assisted the GOM by
carrying out a study of investment requirements and likely returns in terms of recaptured traffic. The
potential concessionaire, which has been selected on the basis of an internationally solicited invitation,
has proposed a staged and considerably more modest program of investment.
The Northern Railway carried about 211,400 mt of goods traffic in 1998 following several years of
decline. The potential concessionaire estimates that an efficiently run rail operation would carry
248,000 mt of goods traffic in the first year of concession operation rising to 580,000 mt by the fifth
year of operation. The provision of limited rail passenger services is being discussed with the GOM, but
benefits arising from a recapture of passenger traffic have not been calculated in the present analysis.
(ii)    Costs
The potential concessionaire's recommended investment program and forecasts of operating costs have
been used in assessing the likely costs of operation and investment. The costs have been converted to
economic costs through the netting out of taxes and subsidies and the assumption of world prices for
traded goods, such as fuel. The investment program of the concessionaire, including concessioning and
management costs will total US$ 20.7 million over the first five years of concession operation with
more moderate amounts proposed for subsequent track and equipment renewal over the remaining 15
years of the concession. The concessionaire proposes to initially engage the services of about 1,690 of
the 2,150 current employees of the Northern Railways. The concessionaire has included a redundancy
package for surplus employees in its cost estimates. The concessionaire has requested GOM assistance
in the construction of a modern multi-modal interchange in Antananarivo, which, if agreed to, will
constitute the only investment the government is requested to undertake.



51
(iii)   Benefits
The benefits of the proposed concessioning agreement include savings in the amount of traffic carried
on the road network, savings arising from the operation of an efficient rail-road interchange and the
marginal pro.duction of surplus staff redeployed elsewhere in the economy. Currently, road freight rates
range between US 4.0 cents and US 9.0 cents per tkm. The actual economic vehicle operating costs at
replacement cost is considerably higher, taking into account the composition of the heavy vehicle fleet.
Economic. vehicle operating costs, excluding vehicle depreciation, also lie at the higher end of the rate
band. The assumed value of avoided costs of road transport used in the analysis is US 7.5 cents per tkm.
The surplus workers given redundancy packages also have an alternative value if engaged elsewhere in
the economy. Given the wide range of industrial skills found in railway companies, the majority of
railway workers should find alternative employment elsewhere, and the benefit can be valued at a rate
similar to that characterizing the current wage of the ECDs of the MOPW-i.e., at about US $570 per
year. The benefits of the multimodal interchange are uncertain at this time but have been assumed to
equate to about 5 percent of the total investment on an annual basis. There are additional benefits arising
from the reduction in road traffic on the routes paralleling the rail lines of the RN CFM, including
delayed periodic maintenance costs and a postponement in road capacity expansion requirements. At
this time it has not been possible to calculate these additional benefits with any certainty.
(iv)   Results and Sensitivity Analysis
The restoration of an efficient and reliable rail service on the northern railway network yields an NPV at
12 percent of US$16 million and an EIRR of 29 percent. The estimates of the investments efficiency
indicators for the railway concessioning are relatively sensitive to decreased demand assumptions and
less so to increased cost assumptions. A 20 percent decrease in the amount of traffic recaptured from
road transport results in an EIRR of 13.6 percent. The impact of a 20 percent increase in investment
costs is to reduce the EIRR to 21.7 percent. An increase in rail operating costs reduces the EIRR to 21.7
percent.
Private-Public Partnerships for the Rehabilitation and Operation of Secondary Airports
(APL-2, pre-feasibility analysis)
(i)    Background
The GOM has established the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), and the Privatization Committee has
initiated the process of privatizing Madagascar's airports. Main airports under CAA and under ADEMA
will likely be put up for privatization and/or concession operation. The remaining 40 airports currently
administered by the MOTM fall into two categories: secondary airport designates an airport with
business, administrative and possible tourism functions; tertiary airport includes those airports which
play a social role in isolated areas of the country. IDA has been requested to assist under APL-2,
through investments in airport renewal and rehabilitation, the development of public/private
partnerships for the future operation of secondary and tertiary airports.
(ii)    Traffic
A consultant's study carried out for the Privatization Committee in 1998 provided 1996 traffic data for
some 26 out of the 40 airports which will fall into the secondary and tertiary categories. For this
analysis, a 4 percent pa growth rate has been assumed between 1996 and 2000 for traffic at the 26
airports for which data is available. In regard to the airports for which traffic data was not available, it
has been assumed that each airport handles, on average, one third of the traffic using the 26 airports.
Following renewal and rehabilitation, a rate of growth of 5.5 percent has been assumed for traffic
through all secondary and tertiary airports. Passenger traffic would grow from 88,400 in 1996 to
169,000 in 2010 with continued growth thereafter. Similarly, freight traffic in the secondary and tertiary
airport system would total 900 mt by 2010 while postal traffic would be around 650 mt in the same
year.



52
(iii)    Costs
The envisaged investment envelope for renewal and rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary airports is
approximately US$ 10.4 million which would be implemented between 2003 and 2005 under APL 2.
Annual maintenance costs of the works to be undertaken are assumed to be around 5 percent of the
capital costs of works.
(iv)    Required Benefits
The actual benefits of secondary and tertiary airport renewal will be the facilitation of commerce and
government administration, the future development of tourism, and the maintenance of an emergency
lifeline to remote. Madagascar is periodically prone to severe climate, and remote air fields can assist
greatly in providing emergency assistance.
Given the uncertainty surrounding the detailed investment program, to be prepared under APL-1, a
switch-off analysis has been undertaken. Given prevailing load factors, it has been assumed that the
investment costs will be recovered through airport fees levied directly on passenger departures (70
percent of revenue); on freight (25 percent of revenue) and on postal waybills (5 percent of revenue).
As to passenger traffic, an airport fee of US$ 7 per would be required to meet this traffic contribution to
cost recovery, at a 12 percent discount rate. This average passenger fee would represent a small
proportion of the ticket price for average domestic flights in Madagascar. Indeed, the direct operating
costs of a modem aircraft type suitable for the terrain and runway capacity of Madagascar, and for the
average 300 km length of passenger trips, are in the order of US$ 0.14 per pkm. Assuming four
passengers occupancy-and once landing fees and air navigation system fees have been incorporated
into ticket price-the departure fee would amount to less than 10 percent of final ticket costs.
Assuming similar assumptions, the unit (kg) departure user fee required of freight and post is US$ 0.35
and US$ 0.02, respectively. As air freight is characterized by a fairly high value to weight ratio, the
required user fee would not be onerous. The user fee requirement on airmail might require a small
public service obligation subsidy from the GOM.
H.     National and Rural Road Rehabilitation (APL-3 and APL-4, pre-feasibility analysis)
(i)    RuralRoads-APL-3
A rural road improvements program consisting of the upgrading and rehabilitation of some 1500 km of
rural roads will be considered under APL-3. On the basis of a preliminary cost analysis, the package
will amount to an indicative $ 30.0 million. On existing rural roads the proposed works could reduce
vehicle operating costs and ultimately, goods tariffs and passenger fares. The provision of all year
access could in certain. circumstances lead to changes in crop production patterns with agricultural
producers able to substitute cash crop production for food crop production. The analysis of the river
transport projects has indicated that farmers in enclave areas such as those served by seasonal roads can
experience difficulties in accessing credit. The provision of year round access would act to ease such
constraints. The provision of year round access also increases the access of the rural poor to social
services.



53
Two provisional switch-off analyses have been carried out of the proposed rural road program. The first
analysis consists of an examination of breakeven traffic flows likely to guarantee project* viability-
given the roughness reductions that would result on the improved roads. Rural roads carrying around
100 vehicles per day would appear to meet viability criteria. For lesser trafficked roads, characterized
by flows of 50 vehicles, a preliminary analysis indicates that only a modest two ha per linear kim of
improved rural road would have to be brought under mixed subsistence and cash crop production to
guarantee project viability. As the hinterlands of rural roads extend up to 7.5 km either side of the road,
the required increase in production is relatively modest. A detailed analysis of the viability of the
proposed rural road program will be undertaken during APL- 1.
(i)    National Road Upgrading - APL 4
The program of upgrading of sections of the primary road network will further reduce the maintenance
backlog that has accumulated in recent years. The works to be undertaken cover a variety of periodic
maintenance activities such as slurry surfacing, resurfacing and overlays, and the rehabilitation of a
limited number of sections. The cost of the program covering about 900 km of national roads is
estimated at about US$80 million.
The program has been subject to economic scrutiny by Consultants Ramboll on a section by section
basis, as part of the network-wide analysis conducted for the appraisal of APL-1 roads. Utilizing the
same growth assumptions as previously described in Section B of this Annex, the consolidated road
program to be undertaken between 2003 and 2007 is economically attractive, with an NPV over US$50
million, at a 12 percent discount rate, and an EIRR of about 20 percent. The final feasibility of this
program will be further established in the course of implementation of APL-1.
1.     Social Protection and Mitigation Program (APL-2, pre-feasibility analysis)
Under APL-2, a social mitigation program will be implemented as part of the reorganization of the
MOPW and the MOTM, and associated agencies. At this stage up to 800 staff members are estimated to
be surplus to the requirements of the restructured ministries and agencies. An associated redundancy
package for surplus workers has been assumed based on ongoing work of the MOPW and the Civil
Service Reform Committee. In addition, a training and counseling program will be provided to the
surplus staff, and about 60 percent of this staff could be expected to participate in such training.
The benefits of restructuring lie partly in wage savings of retiring surplus staff who will not be required
in the new organization or whose qualifications do not meet requirements. Wage savings are assumed as
benefits in the economic sense since they are valued at their opportunity cost, in view of the highly
constrained budgetary situation in Madagascar. Based on MOPW data, the age profile of surplus staff
has been taken into account in calculating the avoided payroll costs for the concerned agencies. Despite
the fairly low rate of unemployment in the formal economy of Madagascar (5 percent in urban areas in
1998 according to GOM surveys), only 50 percent of retrained surplus staff will find employment. The
redeployment of surplus labor creates marginal productivity benefits elsewhere in the economy. As in
the case of avoided wages, the productivity benefit is assumed to decrease over time following the
demographic profile of surplus staff-i.e., benefits decrease as surplus staff reach retirement age. A
preliminary analysis of the social mitigation program suggests an NPV at 12 percent of US$2.2 million
and an EIRR of 42 percent.
In view of the uncertainty for this component, stochastic risk analysis was also used to further test the
results of the base case scenario assumed. For the variables assumed to be more representative of the
underlying risks, triangular probability distributions were assumed. These variables are the: (i)
redundancy package per displaced worker; (ii) cost of retraining for each displaced worker seeking
retraining; (iii) percentage of retrained workers finding a job; and (iv) range of alternative wage for
displaced workers.. The variables, alternative jobs and the corresponding wages, were further assumed
to be positively correlated. A summary of the basic inputs for and of the results of the stochastic risk
analysis, carried out with the Crystal Ball model, are presented below.



54
(i)     Redundancy package per displaced worker
(ii)    Cost of retraining for each displaced worker seeking retraining
(iii)    Percentage of retrained workers finding a job
(iv)    Range of alternative wage for displaced workers                                            .,,
(v)     Resulting probability distribution for the EIRR
Forecast EIRR
1,000TrIals             FrequencyChart                OOutiers
Ax                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so
."O ----a
1010      20%       31%        30%        45%
As a result, and when risk is factored into the analysis, the most likely value for the EIRR for t%Ws
component is about 31 percent, thus considerably lower that the 42 percent estimated for the base
deterministic scenario. Even so, there is a 100 percent certainty level that the EIRR for this componaa
will be 20 percent or more, thus well above the 12 percent value assumed for the opportunity cost :
capital in Madagascar.



55
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Overview and Key Assumptions
The various sub-projects have been assessed as to financial viability. The key assumption is that the
reform of the transport sector and its further development will operate increasingly on the "user-pays"
principle. Part of the rationalization exercise underlying the reform process is that operational activities
in the transport sector will be undertaken wholly in or in part by the private sector. Accordingly, prices
wull by and large be set by the market. The financial appraisals carried out assess the financial returns of
improvements to be implemented under the project. In the cases of all sub-sectors, except for the road
and rails sub-sectors, a specific user fee is proposed to cover the costs of provision and operation of
transport infrastructure provided. Cost recovery in the road and rail subsectors are also assessed, taking
into account the already established user fee systems.
Road Subsector
The govenment's proposed expenditure plans for the road network have been discussed at length
between the donor community and government during project preparation. The govermnent has
recognized the importance of putting the funding of the maintenance of the road network on a
sustainable basis. In 1998, the government established a Road Fund to oversee the allocation of funds
for road maintenance. A tax of 1.7 percent on the price of fuel is currently being collected. These funds
are directly channeled to road maintenance activities.
The GOM has experienced increasing difficulty in providing an adequate level of road maintenance
over the past decade. Donors have assisted in the reduction of the maintenance backlog in recent years,
primarily through rehabilitation and periodic maintenance projects. However, there remains a
significant proportion of the network which the MOPW classifies as being in poor condition. Given the
government's commitment to the reform process, a significant effort towards the rehabilitation of the
9,000 km primary network is to be mounted by the government and donors over the period 2000-2004.
During APL-1, the Bank and other donors will assist the govermment to address the maintenance
backlog. Currently, revenues from the road fee accruing to the Road Fund account to less than 30
percent of maintenance expenditure of about US$9.0 million equivalent. As revenues from the road fee
progressively become the dominant source of funding for the Road Fund, so will general government
revenue funding decline. Starting on 2004, revenues from the road fee are projected to reach an
equivalent US$15.9 million, thus fully matching the estimated recurrent road expenditure requirements
on primary and rural roads from that year onwards. The NPV, at 6.5 percent discount rate, of the
incremental fiscal revenues resulting from general taxes levied on the road fee is estimated at about
US$3 1 million in constant terms.
PortslMaritime Subsector
The user fees required to fund the improvements in the Ports of Toliary and Mahajanga would amount
to about $ 3 per ton. The average value per ton of commodities passing through the two ports will
increase significantly over the sub-projects' horizon because of the relatively high value of fish product
exports. The user fee required would amount to a relatively small proportion of the transport charges of
the most basic commodities that currently transit the port, such as sugar and building materials
(Mahajanga) and corn and manioc (Toliary). Thus, little traffic loss would be expected by the
imposition of a port improvement user fee or the augmentation of existing port cargo handling charges
by US$3 per metric ton. A sensitivity test shows that the reduction of the economic benefits by the
amount of the proposed user fee would have little impact on the EIRRs of each sub-project, which
would remain above 20 percent in each case. The financial rate of return in both cases is 8 percent.



56
River Subsector
The river subprojects are more sensitive to the imposition of a user fee. The fees required to assure
financial rates of return of 8 percent on the proposed investments would amount to 33 percent of the
current transport and tourism charges on the Tsiribihina River and 54 percent of current charges on the
Sofia River. Current traffic flows will likely be relatively unbending to increases in transport charges on
the two rivers because of the significant impact that the extended navigation season will have on the
consumption and production functions of area residents and producers. Regarding consumption,
hinterland merchants will be able to significantly reduce their carnying costs, and, hence, retail prices,
since inventories of basic commodities can be replenished more frequently. The average size of
commercial inventories can also be reduced because of the increased reliability of shipment that will
characterize services on the improved waterways. From the production standpoint, analysis indicates
that the required increase in transport charges constituted by the proposed user fee would have little
impact on the size of the exportable surpluses assumed to arise.
A 33 percent increase in river transport passenger and commodity tariffs on the Tsiribihina River would
translate to a loss of traffic of about 10 percent. The associated loss of economic benefits reduces the
EIRR of the sub-project from 23.5 percent to 21.5 percent. On the Sofia River, benefits are assumed to
arise wholly from increased production of rice and cotton. Both surpluses would be exported to other
parts of Madagascar. The increase of 54 percent in likely river transport charges would reduce the net
value added accruing to the rural producer by about 12 percent. Such a decrease in induced production
entails an EIRR of 24.0 percent as opposed to 26.2 percent in the base case. The river transport sub-
projects are thus both financially and economically viable.
Sub-projects Submitted to Pre-feasibility Analysis
The concessioning of the RN CFM is currently under negotiation. An analysis based on the business
plan of the potential concessionaire indicates that the concession operation will be characterized by a
rate of return sufficient to allow the potential concessionaire to access international loan capital. In
addition, the inclusion of the TA proposed to strengthen the GOM's capabilities in concession
monitoring and supervision has no impact on sub-project financial viability. The NPV of fixed asset
creation over the life of the concession is of the order of US$20 million on a gross basis and US$13.6
on a net basis. As well as providing the government with annual concession fee revenue, the proposed
concession entails that the railway assets of the GOM held on the Northern network will be in a
considerably better state at the end of the concession period than is currently the case. As to the
Southern Railway, evidence made available by USAID indicates that operating revenues only cover
about 80 period of working costs. It is, therefore, unlikely that a concessioning arrangement would be
viable, unless in the context of a joint port/railway concession.
The switch-off analysis carried out in relation to the proposed investment in the secondary airport
system indicates that the user fee required to guarantee economic and financial viability will lead to
little traffic loss. Private airline companies using modern and appropriate equipment should be able to
operate profitably. It is assumed that there is a considerable latent demand for domestic air transport and
that the potential growth of the tourism industry will occur with air transport tariffs and user fees close
to world levels. This is certainly the case in the nearby Eastern (Kenya) and Southern African
(Zimbabwe) tourism markets against which Madagascar's tourism product will be competing.



57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement methods (Table A)
No special exceptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Madagascar's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions and local regulations. Procurement of works, goods, and
consultant services financed by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance with the guidelines:
Procurement for IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999) and Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with Madagascar' s
procurement laws and regulations which are acceptable to IDA. Procedures include local advertising,
public bid opening, clarity in evaluation criteria, award to the evaluated bidder, non-exclusion of foreign
bidders, and with preference in bid evaluation for domestic contractors. A General Procurement Notice
is in the process of being published in the Development Business and will be updated annually. The
project implementation plan comprises a procurement and disbursement plan which has been reviewed
and agreed with IDA during negotiations. The procurement plan will be reviewed and updated at least
one month prior to the start of each project year.
Civil Works estimated to cost US$ 29.5 million dollars (IDA financing US$27.7 million) will be
procured through pre-qualification and ICB procedures. No civil works will be procured through NCB.
The bidding documents include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA and relevant drawings where
applicable. The awards would be made to the contractors whose tender is assessed on the basis of the
lowest evaluated bid, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully.
Goods financed by IDA and estimated to cost US$6.4 million, include equipment, vehicles, and other
supplies. Goods will be grouped, where feasible, into packages valued at least at US$100,000 and will
be procured through ICB. Procurement of office furniture and supplies estimated to cost less than
US$100,000, will be procured through NCB. The project will also require the purchase of relatively
small, mainly consumable items such as vehicle spare parts, and office equipment which would be
difficult and impractical to package and procure following NCB procedures. These goods are estimated
to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract and, up to an aggregate of US$250,000, may be
procured through national shopping on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified and
authorized local suppliers.
Consultant Services, training and studies financed by IDA would be for: (i) preparation of documents,
feasibility studies, supervision of works, data collection, accounting and financial management, audits
and impact analysis; (ii) short-term consultancies on specific technical matters, such as procurement,
financial management, economics and statistics, and the design of training courses; (iii) training abroad
and locally of MOPW and MOTM staff. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$25.2 million would
be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. Selection
of consultants will be done through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the
selection will be based on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). by evaluating the quality of the
proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided; Quality Based Selection (QBS), by
evaluating first the quality and then negotiating the price with the most qualified firm; Least Cost
Selection (LCS), by selecting on the basis of the lowest price proposal satisfying a specified threshold
of quality; and Consultant Qualifications (CQ), by evaluating individual resumes against job description
requirements. For training abroad and in-country, the program, containing names of candidates, cost
estimates, content of the courses, periods of training, institution selection would be reviewed annually.



58
The Standard Request for Proposal (SRFP) forms as developed by the Bank will be used for the
appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, simple
missions of standard nature (and not exceeding 6 months) carried out by individual consultants or firms.
The government has been briefed during negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines,
in particular with regards to advertisement and public bid opening.
PES will handle procurement for the project Its tasks will comprise: (a) maintaining a register of all.
interested bidders; (b) maintaining a detailed list of technical specifications of goods and services
financed by the project; (c) updating the procurement plan and calendar; (d) preparation and/or
finalization of pre-qualification /bidding documents and requests for proposals; (e) bid evaluation and
preparation of evaluation reports; (f) contract approval process; (g) receipt of goods and services and
dispatching; and (h) processing international and local price quotations.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA Review. All contracts for construction of civil works and purchase of goods above the threshold
value of US$ 100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use of IDA's standard
bidding documents would considerably expedite the prior review process as IDA review would
primarily focus on invitations to bid, bid data sheets, contract data, technical specifications, bill of
quantities/schedule of requirement, and other contract specific items. The review process would cover
the total value of the amount contracted for civil works and about 95 percent of the amount contracted
for goods. Selective post review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to one in
three contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB have been agreed upon with the
government.
For consultant services, prior review will include the review of budgets, short-lists, selections
procedures, terms of reference, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports, and draft contracts.
Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$30,000 equivalent respectively. However, IDA prior
review will apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source
hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA (Project Unit staff, financial and
procurement audits, etc.) or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the prior
review threshold. For consultant contracts estimated above the US$100,000 threshold, opening the
financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Banks no-objection to the technical
evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and more than US$ 50,000 the
borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial
proposals. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by
the borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The Project Unit will be
required to maintain all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent review by IDA. The Project
Unit will submit to IDA periodic procurement schedules detailing each procurement package in
progress and completed as part of the normal project reporting exercise.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out by IDA for both the MOTM and MOPW, and
discussed with the govemnment during negotiations. The summary of the results of this agency
assessment and a series of recommendations to address the identified issues under the Project, is
available in the Project File (Annex 11). Overall, the risk assessment is rated average. In order to
manage this risk, the procurement Advisor to be appointed under the PES, prior to effectiveness, will
lead a major effort towards greater transparency and effectiveness of the procurement process.
Furthermore, it has been agreed upon during negotiations that provision will be made under the Credit
for the financing of an independent procurement and quality audit on a regular basis. The
recommendations of this audit, to be prepared from time to time based on an analysis carried out on a
sampling basis, will be implemented also under the overview of the Procurement Advisor.



59
Disbursements (Table C)
Disbursements will be in accordance with guidelines set out in the Disbursement Handbook. The project
is expected to be completed over a four and a half-year period, by January 31, 2005, and the Credit is
expected to be closed by July 31, 2005. The proposed allocation of the IDA Credit is shown in Table C
below. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for
expenditures for goods, works, and consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding US$35,000
equivalent. For operating costs and training, reimbursement may be made against certified statements of
expenditures (SOEs). The MOTM and the MOPW will be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications and SOEs to be submitted to IDA, and will indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of
any goods and the payment date. These will be retained along with all other supporting documentation
for review by IDA supervision missions and independent auditors.
Table C indicates the disbursement schedule, the amounts for each expenditure category and the
disbursement percentage applicable to each. The disbursement percentages have been calculated on a
tax-inclusive basis such .that, when applied to invoices denominated in local currency, the percentage
not financed by the Bank be sufficient to cover government counterpart contributions and eliminate any
Bank financing of local taxes and duties.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
The Project (MOTM and MOPW) will use SOE procedures in which expenditures are summarized by
category. The documentation for withdrawals of SOEs would be retained by MOTM and MOPW for
review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for annual audits. SOEs will be used for payments
of contracts of less than US$100,000 for goods and works and consultant contracts of less than
US$100,000 and US$30,000 for firms and individuals respectively. SOEs will likewise be utilized for
all operating costs and local training programs under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each.
Special accounts:
To ensure that funds will be available when needed, two Special Accounts in US$ will be established in
local commercial banks under conditions satisfactory to IDA. One, in the amount of US$1.9 million,
will be opened in the name of MOTM, and the other, in the amount of US$2.6 million, will be in the
name of MOPW. Fifty percent (50%) of these amounts will be withdrawn on the Credit account after
effectiveness; the remainder will be withdrawn as and when dictated by project activities. The amounts
have been estimated to covef about four months of expenditures, and would be withdrawn from the
Credit account after effectiveness. The MOTM and MOPW would have the right to draw directly on
these accounts for project expenditures without prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. The Special
Accounts would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence, provided to IDA by MOTM and
MOPW, of payments made from. the accounts for goods and services required for the project that are
eligible for financing under the Credit. All supporting documents will be retained by MOTM and
MOPW, and made available for review by IDA supervision missions and external auditors.



60
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US $million equivalent)
1. Works              }  ~~~~~~29.5                                             29.5
(27.7)                                               (27.7)
2. Goods              1   ~~~~~~~6.0      0.1      0.3                       6.4  
I (6.0)  I    (0. 1)  I    (0.3)   II              (6.4)I
3. Services                                           1 25.2                  1     25.2
____________________________  ______ _ }(25.2)    _  (25.2)
4. Training                                                 0.2                      0.2
____________________________  ______ _ | (0.2)  _    (0.2)
5. Other                                                   4.7                       4.7
_______________________________             ~~~~(4.0)  _ ____         (4.0)
6. Front-end Fee
Total                            35.5         0.1        30.4                      66.0
|  (33.7)       (0 1)      (29.7)   |          |    (63.5)
(Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit)
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods
and Prior Review
____________________ l     US $ thousands                                  US S millions
1. Works
>100                   ICB                     YES
<100                   ICB               POST-REVIEW
2. Goods
>100                   ICB                     YES
100<            NCB, up to an aggregate  POST-REVIEW
amount of US$100,000
30<            National Shopping, up to  POST-REVIEW
an aggregate amount of
US$250,000
3. Services
Consultant firms       >100              QCBS AND QBS                 YES
Consulting firms         50< AND <100   QCBS AND QBS             POST-REVIEW
Consulting firms         50<             QCBS AND QBS            POST-REVIEW
Individual              >30                     CQ                    YES
consultants
Individual       30<                   CQ               POST-REVIEW
consultants
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  60.1



61
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Works                           23.0                         100% of foreign expenditures
_________________________  ______________________and  75%     of local expenditures
Goods                            6.2                         100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
Consultants' services, training,        28.7                         100% of foreign expenditures
and audits                         _                          and 80% of local expenditures
Operating costs                          0.3                          80% of local expenditures
Refunding    of    project               1.5                         100%
preparation advances .
Unallocated                          5.3               ___=______ _____
Total Credit Amount                     65.0



62
Annex 7: Summary Environmental Assessment
Overview of the Environmental Assessment of the Transport Sector
The report on the Environmental Assessment of the Transport Sector, comprising three volumes,
provides an overview of the context in which the sector currently operates. The EA report a) defines and
analyzes the general environmental impacts related to each sub-sector; b) identifies the potential
environmental impacts of activities planned under APLI; and c) recommends a plan for environmental
management.
The EA report provides project managers in the transport sector with a permanent working document
enabling them to develop a clearer understanding of the situation at each project site, taking social,
biological, and physical factors into account. The EA report is intended to be a tool for developing
environmentally sound projects, monitoring investments, and above all decision-making.
In addition to the Ministries of Transport and Public Works, other entities are involved with transport
and environmental protection. As a result, the government will need to take appropriate decisions on
institutional and legal matters.
The EA report was prepared in accordance World Bank guidelines and national environmental policies
concerning infrastructure and environmental protection.
The environmental, political, socioeconomic, legal,
and institutional context of the transport sector
Madagascar, which occupies 594,000 kM2, has very diverse climates ranging from equatorial to semi-
arid. It consists of highly varied topography and is rich in endemic and fragile species. It has all the
characteristics of a continent and is a true nature sanctuary that should be preserved. All development
activities must be carefully examined in order to avoid any irreversible impacts on natural habitats and
the enviromnent.
The political and legal strategies currently in place derive not only from the Constitution itself, but also
from the Enviromnental Charter, the National Environmental Action Plan, the Economic Policy
Framework Paper, the Transport Master Plan, texts implementing the national environmental impact
assessment decree (MECIE), and various decrees, particularly those delimiting sensitive areas or
establishing procedures for implementing environmental impact statements (EIS). The strategies also
reflect the international agreements on transport and the environment ratified by Madagascar.
Institutionally, the Government of Madagascar has established two types of environmental structures:
(1) entities that focus on strategy, which include the Ministry of Environment, the National Council on
the Environment (CNE), and the Inter-ministerial Committee for the Environment (CIME); and (2)
operational bodies, which include the National Environment Office (ONE), executing agencies
(AGEX), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), environmental units (CE), and national
environmental research centers and/or institutes. Many other organizations deal directly or indirectly
with environmental issues at the national, regional, and local levels. At times this current situation
hampers the coordination of environmental activities.
The analysis of the current status of Madagascar's transport sector shows that transport infrastructure
may adversely affect the environment. Environmental degradation often destroys transport
infrastructure and undermines the quality of sector services. The analysis also shows that the procedures
followed to manage sector activities have not taken environmental factors fully into account thus far.



63
Finally, analyses of each sub-sector suggest the need to prepare standard and simple environmental
impact statements (EIS) reflecting the challenges presented by each sub-sector activity.
Generic environmental impact assessments
Environmental impact assessments were undertaken for activities or works deemed likely to have
negative environmental impacts. The assessments took two sets of factors into account: biophysical
factors and social factors. Infrastructure works and operational activities in the four sub-sectors (road,
ocean and river, air, and rail transport) were identified as the main sources of negative environmental
impacts.
INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS: Works related to construction and rehabilitation pose potential impacts.
Activities include: route selection, establishment of work sites, excavation, quarry works, re-paving,
restoration of work sites and rehabilitation and expansion works (airports and ports only). Potential
impacts may be greater in the case of new sites or routes.
OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES: These activities include ongoing annual maintenance such as: leveling, grass
cutting, ditch cleaning and more extensive periodic maintenance scheduled on a multiyear basis, as well
as activities pertaining to port, airport, and rail services (loading, unloading and handing of cargo,
temporary storage of goods, and transport of passengers and goods).
Potential impacts of activities on the biophysical environment:
*  Soil: erosion (lavaka phenomenon), silting, and compaction;
*  Surface water and groundwater: various types of pollution, changes in the soil water balance, level
of available groundwater, and extent of surface water infiltration;
*  Air: pollution from dust, noxious gas emissions, and/or odors;
*  Animals and plants: loss of habitat resulting from work site construction, deforestation, required
siting of routes, and/or infrastructure construction; and
*  The landscape: total or partial alteration.
Potential impacts on social environment:
G Changes in daily living patterns (economic and cultural practices) among inhabitants living near
works;
*  Land tenure conflicts and lawsuits resulting from expropriation;
* Various illnesses caused by air and water pollution (including acute respiratory infections and
diarrhea); and
*  Injury accidents and/or accidenfs causing damage to equipment and structures.
Recommended mitigation measures:
*  Stabilize slopes and banks and size drainage ditches properly to address soil erosion (lavaka
phenomenon), and pollution in general;
*  Protect the surface water system (streams, rivers, lakes, marshes) from all forms of pollution and
from silting;
*  Construct and upgrade sanitation systems, ensure routine treatment of solid and/or liquid waste, and
install infiltration devices for runoff to protect ground water from all forms of pollution and from
decreases in the level of available water;
*  Restore all land occupied and/or polluted by sector-related works;
*  Reimburse persons adversely affected by pollution and expropriation as a result of sector works and
activities;
*  Take appropriate measures to minimize noise and atmospheric pollution; and
* Enhance quarry byproducts and optimize work-site infrastructure.
Recommended mitigation measures should be the subject of awareness campaigns and should be agreed
to by the entities involved in the works. Given the varying nature, scope and impacts of each sub-sector
activity, a mechanism should be put in place to ensure the dissemination of information and/or public



64
consultation related to proposed transport works.
Ecologically sensitive areas in particular may be affected directly or indirectly by general transport-
related activities. Experienced professionals should conduct specialized studies in such areas, which
should also contribute to the appropriate policy and strategy decisions that address both the protection
of natural resources and economic issues.
Environmental considerations specific to APLI activities
The activities funded byAPLI loans focus on:
*  Periodic maintenance of priority sections (about 527 km) of national roads (RN25/45, RN 6, RN 34,
and RN 44/3a);
* Rehabilitation of Mahajanga and Toliary Ports;
* Pilot program for the Tsiribihina and Sofia Rivers, including provision of light berthing facilities,
warehouses, and cleaning up of the waterway; and
i Shipwreck removal at Taolagnaro
The measures to be implemented must be tailored specifically based on the natural setting,
socioeconomic context, and type of works executed for each activity. Participatory efforts are
recommended at all levels. Before implementation, population groups affected by the projects should be
consulted. Prior consultation with the entities directly involved in each type of activity will facilitate a
level of ownership leading to the sustainability of the works and/or compliance with any formal or
informal regulations adopted in connection with the works.
Integration of the environment into the transport sector management
Environmental factors have not been adequately addressed during the design and implementation of
transport sector projects, even though resulting investments have always had a direct or indirect minor
or major impact on the environment. The EA report defines the role of the existing environmental units
in the two ministries concerned to ensure that environmental assessments are incorporated throughout
the project cycle for every sector project. These units will therefore be entrusted with legal, technical,
and communications-related responsibilities. In particular, they will be expected to evaluate
environmental impact statements for new projects or retrofits, monitor and supervise environmental
requirements, provide legal surveillance, and conduct communication programs.
The existing structures within the two ministries directly involved in the program are still relatively
new. The role of these environmental units has not yet been clearly defined. Nevertheless, these units
within the MOPW and the MOTM have already taken the initiative and are managing the environmental
components of investments the ministries have made in respect of ongoing operations. Because their
status within the ministerial structure is ambiguous, they do not have the financial wherewithal or skill
base required in order to discharge their responsibilities fully. In the course of establishing the
Environmental Management Plan for the Transport Sector the role of the environmental units should be
defined clearly, and should include responsibilities for technical, legal, and communications issues.
Finally, pursuant to national regulations, environmental factors should be incorporated during the
preparation of the preliminary design and detailed design documents for transport sector projects.
Environmental management plan for the transport sector
The EA report proposes the following Environmental Management Plan:
General and specific principles:
* Mitigation measures should be introduced before the project begins, in consultation with the
population;



65
* Mitigation measures for impacts of existing infrastructure for which investments are planned,
should be identified;
* Mitigation measures to prevent potential impacts at the national and regional levels should be
identified; and
*  A guide of monitoring indicators (status indicators, pressure, and response indicators, and
monitoring and evaluation methods).
These principles and tools would allow any environmental damage to be identified and mitigated in a
timely manner.
Implementation strategy: The strategy will focus on measures to strengthen existing structures and
enhance their capacity. It must be applicable at both the central and local levels.
Implementation plan: The plan will outline mitigation measures, monitoring and supervision activities,
and the entity responsible at each stage. The plan will also incorporate a capacity-building schedule,
including training programs adapted to each target group.
Standard clauses in works contracts: These will also serve as reference points for the drafting of
environmental standards. Some of these are generic and are applicable to all types of works:
* Measures to assist people forced to resettle,
* Compensatory reforestation,
* Installation of garbage bins and sanitation systems, and
* Procedures for closing down work sites.
Other clauses are applicable to particular sub-sectors:
* Route selection, excavations, engineering structures, rest areas, and parking areas,
* Preliminary hydrographic studies, protection of coral reefs and mangroves, regulations governing
easements for aircraft emissions, and a lubricant treatment and recycling system.
Communications strategy. The strategy, which comprises three components (environment and
sustainable development; environment, population, and poverty; and environment from a regional
perspective), and provides details regarding the needs assessment, the introduction of training programs,
monitoring and assessment activities, and the relevant budget. The objective of the awareness program
is to facilitate dialogue among the various actors and generate momentum for incorporating a sound
communications strategy for the transport sector.



ANNEX 7
Attachment 1: Matrix of Interventions for Environmental Protection
MATRICE REFERENTIELLE DES MESURES DE SAUVEGARDE DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT PAR REGION ECOLOGIQUE ET TYPE D'INTERVENTION
Interventions    AVANT TRAVAUX                                         PENDANT TRAVAUX                                             POST TRAVAUX
Etude et  Installation  Preparation Travaux de   Terrasse-   Revetement  Drainage et  Amenage-   Ouvrages    Travaux en    Fin de    Exploitation
choix du   du chantier   du site   carriere et  ment    de chauss6e  assainisse-   ment des  d'art    milieu marin   chantier
Zones      trac6 ou du                     emprunt                                ment    accotements              et aquatique
ecologiques      site
L              Si, S2, S3, Si, S4, S5, S5;S6,P4   S8,   S10, P7;P8;P9  P7;P14, P39  S31, P15    P16, P17    P17;P18,   P3;P19;     P22;S14;  11 ;12;13;
I  Littoral Est   S4, P1, P2, S6,   S7,        S25,   P7; .                                               P48,P62    P20;P21;    S15 Si6;  110;519;
T                         S13,  SB,            P8;P11,    P10;P11;                                                    S12,S13      S17;S18   S20;S31
T                         S27,  P4,            P61         P12 ;P13;
0                         P5                               P14
R       .
A              S1, S2, S3, Si,  S4, S5;S6,P4   S8,   S10, P7;P8;Pg  P7;P14, P39  S31, P15    P16, P17    P17 ;P18,   P3;P19;       P22;S14;  i1 ;12;13;
L  E           S4, P1, P2, S5, S6, S7,         S25,   P7; ;                                               P48, P62    P20 ;P21;    S15 ;S16;  S19 ;S20;
Littoral   P19,.P70,  S8,  S13,             P8;P11,    P10 P11;                                                   S12 ;S13     S17 ;S18   S31
Ouest                 S27,  P4,             P61        P12 ;P13;
P5                               P14
H  Zones       P68; S1; S13; S25; P4;  P3; S8,   S10, P7;P8;P9  P72;P12,    S31,  P18, P16,  P17; P17;  P18,                       P22,S14;  11 ;12;13;
A  montagneus  S2;  S3; S27, P69   S7          S25,   P7; ;           P39, S29     P73        P37, P74    P48, P62                 S15;S16;  S19 ;S20;
U  es          S4            .P8;P11,    P10;P1I;                                                                                  S17;S18   S31
T  0                                           P31,  P32, P12, P14,
E                                              P33,  P34, SIO
S                                              P61, P71
T  Tanety      Si, S2, S3, S1, S4, S5, S5, S6, P4, S26, P7, P8, P7, P8, P9, S9, S10, S29, S31,  P18, P16, P17    P17;  P18,       P22;S14;  i1 ;12;13;
E  o           S4         S6, S7, S8, P6       S25,  P11, PIO, P11, P39           P43,  P44,              P48, P62                S15 ;S16;  S19;S20;
R                         S13, S27,            P14,  P31, P12, P14,                P45,  P46,                                     S17 ;S18   S31
R                         P4, P5               P32,  P33, S10                      P60,  P73,
E                                              P34, P71                           P74
S  Basfonds   S1, S2, S3, SI, S4, S5, S6, P4, P6           Slo,  P9, S9, S10, S29, S31,  P18, P16         P17;  P18,              P22;S14;  i1 ;12;13;
S4,   P1, S6, S7, S8,               x       P11, P12, P39          P44,  P45,             P48,P62                  S15;S16;  S19;S20;
P75       S13, S27,                         P14                    P46,  P60,                                      S17 ;S18   S31
P4, P5                        .                         P73, P74



Interventions    AVANT TRAVAUX                                          PENDANT TRAVAUX                                                POST TRAVAUX
Etude et  Installation  Pr6paration Travaux de Terrasse-  RevOtement   Drainage et    Am6nage-    Ouvrages   Travaux en  Fin de   Exploftation
choix du  du chantier   du site   carriere  et   ment             assainisse-   ment des       d'art       milieu     chantier
Zones       trac6 ou                        emprunt                               ment      accotements                marin et
6colo. igues    du site                                                                                                  aquatique
V    Corridor  SI,  S 2, SI, S4, SS, S6,P4,PS                       S9,   Sb, S31, P18, P43, P16,P17       P17;   P18,             P22;S14;    11 ;12;13;
E    forestier  S3,  S4, S6, S7, S8,               x         X      S29, P39    P44, P45, P46,             P48, P62                S15 ;S16;    S19 ;S20;
R              P1, P75   S13, S27,                                              P60, P73, P74                                -     S17 ;S18      S31
S                       P4,P5
N    Plaines   SI,  S2, SI, S4, S5, S6, P4, P6  S8,  S10, S6,  S10, S9,   S10, S31, P18, P44, P16, P17     P17;   P18,             P22 ;S14;    11 ;12;13;
T    cotieres  S3,  S4, S6, S7, $8,            S25,  P7, P9, PIO, S29, P39    P45, P46, P60,               P48, P62          -     S15 ;S16;    S19 ;S20;
P1,P75   S13, S27,              P8,  P11, P11                    P73,P74                                            S17;S18       S31
E                       P4, P5                 P61
$
T
V       Corridor  S1,  S2, A proscrire  S6, P4, P6                     S9,   S10, S31, P18, P43, P16, P17     P17;   P18,             P22 ;S14;    11 ;12;13;
E       forestier  S3,  S4,                                            S29, P39    P44, P45, P46,             P48,P62                 S15;S16;    S19;S20;
R                P1,P75                              x          X                  P60,P73,P74                                        S17;S18       S31
A                Si,  S2, SI, S4, S5, S6, P4, P6  S8,  S10, S6, S10, S9,   S10, S31, P18, P44, P16            P17;   P18,             P22 ;S14;    11 ;12;13;
N                S3,  S4, S6, S7, S8,            S25,  P7, P9, PIO, S29,1P39    P45, P46, P60,                P48, P62                SI5;S16;    S19;S20;
T       Plaines   P1,P75   S13, S27,              P8,  P11, P11, P13               P73,P74                                            S17;S18       S31
OUEST  cotUeres            P4, P5                 P61
et delta 
S,  S2,                         S8,  S10,            S9,   Sb, S31, P18, P43, P16,P17       P17;   P18,                           11 ;12;13;
Zones    S3,  S4,      X                 S25,  P7,    X       S29, P39    P44, P45, P46,              P48, P62                             S19 ;S20;
S       dunaires  P1, P75                        P8,  Pll,                         P60, P73, P74                                                    S31
P61
U
D



Interventions    AVANT TRAVAUX                                            PENDANT TRAVAUX                                             POST TRAVAUX
Etude et   Installation  Pr6para Travaux de    Terrasse-  Revitement  Drainage et  Am6nage.   Ouvrages   Travaux en    Fin de    Exploitatio
choix du   du chantier  tion du  carriere et  ment                assainisse-ment    ment des    d'art     milieu     chantler      n
Zones icologiques  trac6 ou du             site  emprunt                                              accotements              marn et
site              .                                                                                     aguatique
Zones         Si, 82, S3,            S6, P4, S8, S0, S25,           S9, S10, S29, S31, P18, P43, P16, P17    P17;  P18,                          11 ;12;13;
foresti6res   S4, P1, P75     X      P6      P7, P8, P11,    X      P39          P44, P45, P46,               P48, P62                           S19-S20-
(bush,    foret                              P61                                 P60, P73, P74                                                   S31
x6rophile)                                  I
SI, S2, S3, SI, S4, S5, S6, P4, S8, S10, S25,        S9, S10, S29, S31, P18,  P43, P16         P17;  P18,                        11 ;12;13;
Zones          4, P1, P75  S6, S7, S8, P6    P7, Pa, P11,    X      P39          P44, P45,  P46,              P48, P62                           S19;S20;
sablonneuses              S13, S27,          P61                                 P60, P73, P74                                                   S31
P4, P5
R6cits coralliens                                                                                                                                    .
0                  SI, S2, S3, S6, P4, P6, S6, P4, 88, S10, S25, S6, S10, S9, S10, S29, S31, P18,  P43, P16,P17    P17;  P18,             P22;S14;   11 ;12;13;
N   Zones sujettes i S4, P1, P75  P27     P6      P7, P8, P11, P9, PIO, P39           P44, P45, P46,              P48, P62               S15 ;S16;   S19 ;S20;
E   6rosion                                       P61          P11                    P60, P73, P74                                      S17;S18    S31
S                                                                                        .__ _ __ _ _   ._                       _ __
S   Zoneshumides  S1, S2, S3,      X      S6, P4,      X          X      S9, S10, S29, S31, P18, P43, P16, P17    P17;  P18,                         11 ;12;13;
E                  S4, P1, P75            P6                             P39          P44, P45, P46,              P48, P62                           S19,S20;
N                                                                                     P60, P73, P74                                                  S31
B
L
E
S



Interventions   AVANT TRAVAUX    |                                        PENDANT TRAVAUX                                         |   POST TRAVAUX
Etude et choix  Installation  Priparation Travaux   de Terrasse   Revitement  Drainage et  Amenage-    Ouvrages   Travaux en   Fin de    Exploitation
du trace ou du du chantier   du site   carriere   et  -ment            assainise-   ment des      d'art       milieu    chantier
site                          emprunt                                ment    accotements                marn et
Zconoles                  s_____________                                                                                  quatique
6coloabques
Zones      S1, S2, S3,             S6, P4, P6  S8, S10, 525,        S9, 810, S29, S31,  P18, P16, P17    P17;   P18,                        11 ;12;i3;
forestiAres  S4, P1, P75    X                 P7, P8, P11,    X     P39          P43,  P44,               P48, P62                          S 819 ;S20;
(bush, forAt                                  P61                                P45,  P46,                                                 S31
xerophile)                                                                       P60,  P73,
_________                                  ~~~~~~ ~~~P74_                         _ _  _ _
Si, S2, S3, SI, S4, S5, S6,P4,P6  S8, S10, S25,          S9, 810, S29, S31,  P18, P16         P17;   P18,                        11 ;i2;13;
Zones      S4, P1, P75   S6, S7, S8,          P7, P8, P11,    X     P39          P43,  P44,               P48, P62                          S19 ;S20;
sablonneus              S13, S27,             P61                                P45,  P46,                                                 S31
es                      P4, PS                                                   P60,  P73,
P74
Rdcifs                                                                    -
coralliens
0               S1, S2, S3, S6, P4, P6, S6, P4, P6  S8, S10, S25, S6, S10, S9, S10, S29, S31,  P18, P16, P17    P17;   P18,            P22;S14; 11 ;12;13;
N   Zones       S4, PI, P75   P27                  P7, P8, P11, P9, P10, P39          P43,  P44,               P48, P62                S15;S16; S19;S20;
E   sujettes  A                                    P61          P11                   P45,  P46,                                       S17;S18  S31
S   6rosion                                                                           P60,  P73,
E   Zones       S1, S2, S3,      X      S6, P4, P6      X          X    S9, $10, S29, $31,  P18, P16, P17    P17;   P18,                         11 ;12;13;
N   humides    S4, P1, P75                                               P39          P43,  P44,              P48, P62                           S19;S20;
$                                                                                     P45,  P46,                                                 $31
I                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P60,  P73,
B                                                                                     P74
L
E
$



70
LEGENDES
1. Littoral Est                  2. Littoral Ouest                   3. Hautes Terres
Voh6mar                          Ambanja                             Befandriana
Sambava                          Antalaha                            Bealanana
Antalaha                         Mahajanga                           Tsaratanana
Mananara                         Soalala                             Ambatondrazaka
Fenerive                         Maintirano                          Anjozorobe
Toamasina                        Tambohorano                         Antananarivo
Vatomandry                       Belo sur Tsiribihina                Antsirabe
Nosy Varika                      Morondava                           Faratsiho
Mananjary                        Morombe                             Ambositra
Manakara                         Toliary                             Fianarantsoa
Farafangana                      Androka                             Ambalavao
Vangaindrano                                                         Miarinarivp
Taolagnaro                                                           Tsiroanomandidy
4. Versant Est                   5. Versant Ouest                    6. Sud
Vavatenina                       Antsohihy                           Sakaraha
Ampasimanohitra                  Mampikony                           Bezaha
Anosibe an'Ala                   Ambato Boeny                        Betroka
Ikongo                           Maevatanana                         Bekily
Midongy du Sud                   Kandreho                            Betioky
Ivondro                          Miandrivazo                         Ampanihy
Vohipeno                         Manja                               Tsihombe
Ranomafana                       Ankazoabo                           Ambovombe
Ifanadiana                       Beroroho                            Amboasary
Ambohimanga du Sud



71
Annex 8: Action Plan for Financial Management
The present action plan which has already started describes main actions to strengthen the
MOTM and MOPW financial management systems and to build their capacity to produce PMR-
based disbursement. This action plan divides the actions into two categories: (i) activities
precedent to effectiveness assumed to be August 2000; and those activities expected to be
completed during the second phase culminating in the adoption of PMR-based disbursements.



72
Acn                                 Date due bv          Resbonsible
Conditions of effectiveness
1         Agreement on terms of reference for key staff (accountants)  December 31, 1999  MOTM,  MOPW,
external auditor and  consultant in  charge  of the  (COMPLETED)              IDA
Implementation of the accounting manual of procedures.
2         Recuitment process of Consultant in charge of the                             MOTM, MOPW
Implementaton of the accounting manual of procedures:
* Finalization of bidding documents;
*  Reception of bids, evaluation, selection).      June 1, 2000
3         Appointment of Consultant in charge of the implementation                     MOTM, MOPW
of the accounting manual of procedures (with IDA no                          IDA
objection)                                          June 15, 2000
4         Consultant starts preparation of accounting and financial                     MOTM, MOPW
manual of procedures describing accounting systems and
procedures, internal controls and fund flow processes:
*   First draft for IDA comments                    June 30, 2000
*   Final draft incorporating IDA comments          July 15, 2000
*   Appointment of key accounting staff             July 31, 2000
5          Implementation of the manual of procedures and users  June 30, 2000          Consultant,
training.                                                                    MOTM, MOPW
6         Recruitment process of external auditors:                                     MOTM, MOPW
*  Finalization of bidding documents;
*  Reception of bids, evaluation, selection).      July 15, 2000
7          Appointment of External Auditors                    July 31, 2000            MOTM MOPW
8         Project Effectiveness                                August, 2000             GOM/IDA
Interim period (two years)
9         Agreement on terms of reference of Consulting firm in  August 31, 2000        MOTM,  MOPW,
charge of the design and implementation of the MIS                           IDA
10        Users training on LACI                              September 1, 2000         MOTM, MOPW
11        Recruitment process of Consuling firm in charge of the                        MOTM,MOPW
design and implementation of the MIS:
*  Finalization of bidding documents;              September 15, 2000
*  Reception of bids, evaluation, selection.       October 31, 2000
12        Appointment of Consulting firm in charge of the design and  November 30, 2000  MOTM, MOPW,
Implementation of the MIS                                                    IDA
13        Installation of a computerized accounting system (MIS)..  April 30, 2001      Consulting  firm,
MOTM, MOPW
14        System testing to ensure compliance with management's                         MOTM, MOPW,
expectations and IDA specificabtons:                                         IDA, Auditors
*   Prepare test data and expected results;
*   Perform tests and analyze results;
*   Correct problems and retest.
_______ _______________________________________June 30, 2001
15            Conversion and final testing:
*   Complete  systems  documentation  and  training                          Consukant
manuals;
*   Convert, verify files and data in the database and                       Consultarit,
perform final testing;                                                   MOTM, MOPW
*   Complete user training and start operating the system;
*   Obtain user acceptance and approval.
July 31, 2001            MOTM/MOPW
16            Production of draft PMRs from the MIS            December 31, 2001        MOTM, MOPW,



73
l_______               Action                              Date due by          Resnonsible
17            Review of PMRs and make corrective actions if  February, 2002           MOTM, MOPW,
necessary.                                                              Consultant,
Auditors
IDA
IDA
IDA FMS assessment to determine whether the MOTM   March, 2002
and MOPW  meet the eligibiliy crieria established
under LACI.
MOTM, MOPW,
Determination of funds needed for PMR disbursement  April, 2002
for the first six months
18            Production of the first PMR and submit them to the  September 2002       MOTM,
Bank                                                                    MOPW



74
Annex 9: Letters of Transport Sector Policy
and Road Management Strategy
REPOBLIKAN'I MADAGASIKARA
Tanindrazana - Fahafahana - Fandrosoana
MINISTERE DES TRANSPORTS ET DE LA METEOROLOGIE
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
DECLARATION DE POLITIQUE NATIONALE DE TRANSPORTS
1.- CONTEXTE
1.1 L'ajustement structurel dans sa premiere phase a abouti A une stabilisation financibre effective. La
croissance economique est pass6e de 2% en 1996 a environ 4 % en ftn 1998. Le Gouvernement compte
desormais conforter cette stabilisation financiere et inverser la baisse tendancielle du niveau de vie en
vue d'une croissance durable.
1.2 Dans cette perspective, le Document Cadre de Politique Economique (DCPE 1999-2001) definit les
principaux defis a relever par le Gouvernement pour permettre de "creer " les conditions propices A une
croissance rapide et durable en vue de relever le niveau de vie de la population et de reduire la
pauvrete". Ainsi, pour la periode 1999 - 2001, les objectifs sont d'atteindre des taux de croissance du
PIB reel sup6rieurs A 4% et d'assurer les conditions pour des taux de 6 - 7 % a moyen terme. Le
programme macro-economique veut notamment porter les investissements bruts de 12,1% du PIB en
1997 a 16% en 2001 afin d'accel6rer le d6veloppement des infrastructures propices a l'investissement
priv6.
1.3 Face A la situation inqui6tante de l'etat de l'environnement , le Gouvernement a adopte des
politiques et actions visant une meilleure protection et voire une amelioration de l'etat de
1'environnement pour un developpement durable. En 1990, le Plan National d'Actions
environnementales a acquis une dimension legale par l'adoption de la Charte de 1'environnement par la
publication de la Loi n90-033 du 21 Decembre 1990. Parmi les actions les plus importantes envisagees
dans le DCPE 1999-2001 figure l'adoption d'un decret de refonte de la Mise en Compatibilite des
Investissements et de l'Environnement (MECIE) qui doit clarifier les r6les respectifs du Ministere de
l'Environnement, de l'Office National de l'Environnement (ONE), des ministeres sectoriels et des
agences d'ex6cution (AGEX), conformement a la Charte de l'environnement et ses modificatifs , et la
definition de mecanismes A travers lesquels les niveaux de participation aux frais d'evaluation
environnementale seront calcul6s .
1.4 En ce qui concerne les reformes structurelles, le Gouvernement a realise des progres importants
dans les domaines de la dereglementation et du renforcement institutionnel du secteur financier au cours
de la periode 1994-96, avant de se concentrer A la mi-1997 sur la reforme de la fonction publique et les
privatisations.
1i5 Concernant les depenses publiques, selon le DCPE 1999-2001, le niveau des depenses de biens et
services sera progressivement augmente pour ameliorer les conditions materielles de travail et assurer la
maintenance du capital physique existant.



75
1.6 Dans ce cadre, le systeme des transports doitjouer son r6le de:
-  generateur de croissance pour un d6veloppement soutenu et durable (facilitation des echanges,
6vacuation des produits, acheminement des intrants et des produits d'appel) et
-  meilleur distributeur de biens et de revenu envers les producteurs pour l'amelioration de leur
capacite de production et de leur niveau de vie;
2.- LES GRANDS AXES DE LA POLITIQUE SECTORIELLE DES TRANSPORTS:
2.1 La politique sectorielle des transports a pour objet notamment de:
-  retablir un niveau de service satisfaisant,
- ameliorer la capacite de transport avec des moyens efficaces,
-  - promouvoir le reseau de transport ayant des impacts directs sur le  developpement des activites
touristiques et sur les activit6s productrices en milieu rural,
- promouvoir la distribution intermodale et la prdservation du patrimoine par la creation de
plateforme logistique et de transports combines,
- promouvoir la liberalisation du prix dans le secteur Transport tout en assurant le developpement des
pratiques competitives,
- promouvoir la prise en mains par le secteur prive de la gestion et de la r6alisation des
investissements confortatifs au niveau des infrastructures,
- mettre en place un dispositif institutionnel et un cadre reglementaire favorisant une saine
concurrence,
- desengager l'Etat des activites de transport direct par la cession aux operateurs prives des actifs
incorporels et ceux d'exploitation, tout en developpant les capacites de gestion des ressources
humaines des fonctions qui resteront sous contr6le etatique.
3.- STRATEGIES
A- DESENGAGEMENT ET DECENTRALISATION DE L' ETAT
3.1 Dans le cadre de la politique generale de d6sengagement et de decentralisation de l'Etat, le
Gouvernement a engage une reforme du secteur et une r6organisation du Ministere des Transports et de
la M6teorologie afin qu'il puisse assumer son nouveau r6le.
Dans cette reforme, I'Administration fixera les bases juridiques necessaires a la creation d'un
environnement favorable afm d'impliquer les operateurs priv6s pour la mobilisation de fonds requis
pour l'amelioration et 1'extension des infrastructures ainsi qu A leur gestion.
Toutefois, des jalons seront poses pour pr6server la souverainetd nationale et permettre A la puissance
publique de continuer a remplir son role soit dans la definition et le suivi de la politique nationale de
transport soit dans la planification et le suivi du secteur.
Les reformes ci-apres sont donc engag6es ou A entreprendre:
-  R6organisation du Ministere des Transports
-  Reforme institutionnelle du secteur portuaire
-  Reforme du secteur aerien
-  Privatisation des entreprises publiques
3 .2 Reorganisation du Ministere des Transports
(i)    la creation en 1999 d ' un organe independant charge d'assurer le libre jeu de la concurrence et
la fonction de regulateur dans le sous-secteur (Aviation Civile de Madagascar)
Les activites anciennement d6volues A la Direction de l'aviation Civile et a l'Inspection G6n6rale des
Aeroports sont par consequent transferees a cette nouvelle structure.
(ii) la Direction des Transports Maritimes et Fluviaux qui assure l'administration des ports pour le
compte du Ministere des Transports et de la Meteorologie sera reorganis6e afin de s'adapter au nouveau
cadre institutionnel. Dans cette optique, il est envisage de changer son statut en celui d'un organe
independant qui sera responsable de l'administration des ports, qui comprend la tutelle et le contr6le des



76
ports autonomes et des ports faisant l'objet d'une concession globale de gestion et d'exploitation, de la
signalisation maritime le long des c6tes de Madagascar et des attributions marine marchande.
(iii) Le developpement de la planification et la programmation des projets, de leur evaluation ainsi que
celui de la base des donnees pour le secteur transport; une nouvelle Direction est mise en place au
niveau du Ministere, a savoir la Direction de la Programmation et du Developpement des Systemes,
laquelle englobe trois Services anciennement rattaches au Secretariat General.
(iv) La creation d'un Service de l'Environnement pour mieux coordonner avec les autres departements
ministeriels concern6s les activites touchant l'impact des transports sur l'Environnement.
(v) Le renforcement des services provinciaux en vue do la mise en place des provinces autonomes.
3.3 Reforme institutionnelle du secteur portuaire
La reforme envisagee porte sur la mise en place d'un nouveau statut d'autonomie pour les ports
principaux et d'un nouveau systeme de concession de gestion et d'exploitation (dit systeme de
"concession globale") pour les autres ports.
Le nouveau regime d'autonomie s'appliquera aux trois ports long-courriers secondaires d'Antsiranana,
de Mahajanga et de Toliary actuellement administres directement par I'Etat. nI sera d'autre part
substitue au regime actuel du port de Toamasina Ce regime pourra ulterieurement etre etendu au port
de Nosy Be.
Le nouveau systeme de concession globale sera mis en place dans un premier temps dans un certain
nombre de ports pilotes en fonction de l'interet suscite par la formule aupres des operateurs prives. Les
Collectivites Decentralis6es seront invitees a s'impliquer dans la gestion de ces ports par le biais d'une
participation au capital et au conseil d'administration de la societe concessionnaire.
3.4 Rforme du secteur aerien
( i ) Jusqu ' en I ' an 2004 , la politique de mono-designation sera appliquee sur les 8 accords bilateraux
dont les droits sont exploites par Air Madagascar actuellement et la multi-designation sur les autres si la
demande par une compagnie malgache se presente.
Apr6s 2004 , la politique de multi-designation sera appliquee sur tous les accords sign6s par Madagascar
dont les lignes seront exploitees par les compagnies aeriennes de droit malgache, aprbs qu'elles aient
pos6 leurs demandes, et apres examen des dossiers suivant des criteres prealablement definis.
II reste entendu qu'il y aura toujours des accords bilateraux ou eventuellement des accords
multilateraux, dans le cadre des groupements regionaux tels que le COMESA ou la COI. Dans de tels
accords, la partie malagasy defendra une politique de multi-designation et definira des criteres
correspondant aux objectifs de d6veloppement de l'aviation civile nationale.
(ii ) La privatisation des principaux aeroports et I 'introduction du secteur prive dans la gestion et I'
exploitation des aeroports secondaires .
La strat6gie de participation du secteur prive aux aeroports de Madagascar adopt6e par le Gouvernement
consiste en:
[1    la mise en concession d'aeroports principaux pour une duree permettant un retour
d'investissement raisonnable:
Antananarivo ( Ivato ),Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliary, Nosy-Be,
Morondava, Sainte Marie, Toalagnaro, Sambava, Mananjary, Antalaha, Maroantsetra, Tsiroanomandidy
[1    la mise en gestion au secteur prive d'aeroports secondaires economiquement viables pour une
duree de 5   10 ans:
Cette structure de concession se presente comme suit:
[1     Pour les aeroportsprincipaux
-  Une premiere structure inclut les aeroports des chefs lieux de province ainsi que certains aeroports a
vocation touristique. Une garantie de la Banque Mondiale pourrait etre envisageable pour etendre la
maturite du financement prive des investissements en infrastructure et couvrir les risques de nature



77
contractuelle et reglementaire.
-  On envisage que les aeroports a forte potentialite economique regionale seront finances
partieolement par le priv6 et beneficieront d'un credit compl6mentaire de I ' Etat a mobiliser a
travers des bailleurs de fonds.
[      Pour les aeroports secondaires
- Les aeroports dits secondaires fonctionneront sous la forme d'un contrat de gestion sur une plus
courte dur6e. Les infrastructures beneficieront d'un investissement public qui pourrait 8tre financ6
par l'IDA.
- Les adrodromes restant de l'ancienne DAC seront , provisoirement, sous la tutelle de l'Aviation
Civile de Madagascar. L'operateur recevra un pret subordonne du Fonds de Developpement des
Aeroports alimente par les redevances des aeroports principaux pour le financement des
investissements en infrastructure. Ils seront transferes plus tard aux collectivite r6gionales
3 .5 Privatisation des entreprises publiques
i Privafisafion de la Societe nationale AIR MADAGASCAR ainsi quo les participations qu'elle d6tient
dans les societes:
- SOFITRANS (Societ6 Financiere pour le Developpement des Transports et du Tourisme: 48,60%)
- TTAM (Societe des Transports et Travaux Aeriens de Madagascar: 45,50%/O )
pour lui permettre de faire face a la concurrence notamment par le renouvelement et le
dimensionnement d'une flotte mieux adapt6e, pour 6tendre et developper le trafic aerien de l'exteriour
vers Madagascar afin de mieux rentabiliser les operations deotransport et pour developper un transport
a6rien national sur, efficace et a moindre cofit .
ii) Mise en concession de I 'exploitation du reseau Nord du chemin defer
L' Etat concede I 'exploitation du reseau nord (lignes Tananarive-C6te Est , Moramanga-Lac Alaotra,
Tananarive-Antsirabe) et ses installations ferroviaires A une societe concessionnaire selectionnee par
appel d'offres international.
L'offre technique du Groupement COMAZAR a ete retenue par le Gouvernement. II reste a finaliser
l'evaluation de l'offre financiere, le transfert de Gestion et la mise en ceuvre du plan social pour le
personnel deflate.
iii) Privatisation des activites non ferroviaires connexes (Station de Concassage de Nandihizana,
Complexe Industriel de Bois d 'Andasibe)
Les diagnostics des deux unit6s ont ete acheves. Des propositions de strategies de privatisation ont 6t6
deja avancees par l'Organe Technique (O.1) en charge du processus lequel O.T mettra en cuvre le
sch6ma quo le Gouvernement aura choisi.
iv) Creation d'une socieit de patrimoine de chemin defer
La mission d'audit des comptes du Reseau National des Chemins de For Malgaches << RNCFM >> sera
finalis6e et ses r6sultats serviront de base pour la cr6ation d'une Soci6te des patrimoines prevue pour
reprendre les actifs non concedes ainsi que les passifs du RNCFM. L'Etat reste l'entite concedante pour
la signature du contrat de concession .
v) Privafisation du rdseau sud du chemin defer
L'Organe Technique (O.T) sera ] recrut6 pour assister le Gouvernement dans le processus de ]
privatisation du R6seau Sud. Cet O.T sera charg6 notamment (i) du diagnostic de l'entreprise, (ii) de la



78
preparation des strategies de privatisation, eventuellement la concession conjointe chemin de fer/port de
Manakara, et (iii) de la mise en oeuvre de la strategio retenue par le Gouvemement. Le Gouvernement
engagerait toutes demarches n6cessaires pour inciter (i) les repreneurs prives pour I ' exploitation de la
ligne et (ii) les organismes de coop6ration bilaterale et multilaterale pour l'appui au financement des
investissements d'infrastructures.
W) Liquidation de la Compagnie Malgache de Navigation < CMN > et privatisation de la Societe
Maigache des Transports Maritimes << SMTM >, deux Soci6t6s du secteur maritime
Concernant la SMTM, la situation a evolu6 positivement. Apres Juillet 1998, les actions suivantes ont
6te realisees: acquisition de navire MEVA, amelioration des differents postes de bilan, paiement des
arri6r6s ; aussi, actuellement, il est prevu sa privatisation au lieu de sa liquidation.
Pour la CMN, l'officialisation de la liquidation administrative est prevue pour fin Juin 2000.
B-NOUVEAU CADRE REGLEMENTAIRE
3.6 Transport maritime et ports
(i) Refonte du Code maritime
E3le avait pour but de resoudre les problbmes qui se posent actuellement au secteur maritime malgache:
- defaillance des societ6s nationales de navigation
- nombre grandissant des marins en ch6mage
- proprietaires de navires echoues introuvables
- 6cologie marine menacee en permanence
- Idgislation nationale completement depassde.
Elle a ete adoptee en s6ance pleniere de l'Assembl6e Nationale des 6 et 7 decembre 1999.
(ii) Refonte des textesportuaires
Les principales modifications portent sur l'introduction du concept de port autonome et de concession
globale de gestion et d'exploitation. Les textes y afferents sont en cours de redaction conformement au
calendrier de reforme du sous-secteur maritime et portuaire.
(iii) Navigation maritime traditionnelle
L'objectif prioritaire du Ministere des Transports et de la Meteorologie dans le domaine de la navigation
maritime traditionnelle est d'am6liorer les conditions de securit6 notamment pour ce qui concerne le
transport des passagers. Dans ce cadre, la strategie poursuivie par le Ministere vise a mettre en place le
cadre formel dans lequel devrait s'exercer cette activite qui relevait jusqu'a present pour 1'essentiel du
domaine de l'economie informelle. Cette strat6gie s'appuiera sur la mise en place d'un cadre
reglementaire adapte aux caracteres specifiques de ce type de navigation dans les domaine de la
construction navale (homologation des navires), de la professionnalisation des equipages (formation), et
des conditions d'exploitation en visant en particulier a permettre la generalisation a ce type de
navigation do l'obligation d'assurance et le respect des regles de s6curite.
3.7 Aviation civile
Le cadre reglementaire defini auparavant ne repond plus aux exigences deonomiques du nouvel
contexte, il a ete donc juge necessaire d'6laborer une nouvelle loi-cadre, un soul texte de base coh6rent
enonc ant les dispositions jugees essentielles qui precisent le nouveau cadre reglementaire applicable au
secteur de l'Aviation Civile.
Cette nouvelle loi adoptee le 8 Decembre 1999 : (i) determine les nouveaux principes fondamentaux de
l'organisation du secteur; (ii) fixe les r6les de l'Etat et ceux du secteur privre; (iii) etablit une nouvelle



79
charte des responsabilites dans le secteur de l'Aviation Civile; (iv) precise le principe fondamental de
separation des fonctions au niveau de I'administration de l'Aviation Civile, a savoir la fonction
"r6glementation", la fonction "arbitrage des conflits" et la fonction "investigations" sur les
faiblesses du systeme entrainant des incidents ou des accidents; (v) reprend toutes les dispositions
legislatives jugees essentielles du Code Malgache de l'Aviation Civile qui d6termine les principes
fondamentaux de l'organisation et du fonctionnement du secteur
3.8 Professionnalisation des transporteurs routiers
La situation actuelle se caracterise par l'absence de r6glementation specifique definissant les criteres
d'admission a la profession de transporteurs .
Les criteres d'exercice de la profession sont actuellement:
-pour les transporteurs de voyageurs: propri6taire d'un ou de plusieurs vehicules classes dans la
categorie "TCP" (transport en commun de personnes) ; appartenance a un organisme titulaire d ' un ou
de quelques lignes de desserte ; titulaire d' une licence de transport;
-pour les transporteurs de marchandises proprietaire d'un ou de plusieurs vehicules ayant comme PTC
6gal ou superieur a 3,5 tonnes; proprietaire d'une carte professionnelle delivree par le Service de
contributions;
-pour les taxis wille: propri6taire d'un ou de plusieurs vehicules; titulaire d'une licence delivrde par la
Commune urbaine;
-pour les pr4pos&s de transport: chauffeurs: possession d'un permis de conduire de la categorie de
transport effectue ; aides-chauffeurs: aucun critere;
Aussi, il sera effectue la revision de la reglementation des criteres de qualification professionnelle. Des
criteres seront exiges notamment l'inscription a un registre tenu par le Ministere charge des Transports.
Cependant, le raffermissement et la rationalisation de la gestion des services par les operateurs
necessitent de leur part un savoir faire r6sultant d'une formation specifique et sans se limiter aux
exp6riences. Un systeme permanent et ad6quat de formation des op6rateurs devra ainsi 8tre mis en
place.
Parallelement,i une gestion saine et coherente du sous-secteur impose egalement la decentralisation et
l'am6lioration des competences en matiere d'encadrement des operateurs et au niveau de
I'Administration: Ainsi, une strategie de formation des agents de la Direction en charge des transports
routiers sera definie et mise en aeuvre a la suite de la reforme structurelle en cours du Ministere des
Transports et de la Meteorologie.
C-AMELIORATION DE LA CAPACITE DE TRANSPORT ET SA FACILITATION
3.9 Afin d'atteindre les objectifs de croissance economique durable et de reduction de la pauvrete, le
Gouvemement reconna^it la necessite d'une meilleure integration dans 1'economie mondiale en
accroissant et diversifiant les liens commerciaux, et attirant les investisseurs etrangers et le capital prive,
et l'importance de I'accroissement des echanges avec les pays de la region qui est actuellement reduit en
raison des blocages au plan des transports.
3.10 Des modes de transport diversifies et efficaces jouent un r6le vital dans ce processus d'ouvertures.
C'est ainsi qu'un Programme Sectoriel Transport sera mis en ceuvre a partir du dernier trimestre de l'an
2000 pour une duree de huit ans; plusieurs Bailleurs de Fonds financent ce Programme (IDA , AFD,
UE ....). Ce programme porte sur les principaux aspects suivants:
La creation d'entreprises regionales de travaux et d'entretien routiers qui executeront en tant qu'unite de
production les travaux publics avant de devenir des entreprises privees a part entiere
L'6tablissement d'un fonds routier pour garantir une bonne qualite du reseau routier grace a un entretien



80
assure de facon durable
- Le desengagement de l'Etat de l'exploitation ferroviaire
-  La formation d'un organe autonome de l'aviation civile et 1'etablissement de partenariats
public/prive pour la rehabilitation et la gestion des infrastructures de 1'aviation civile
-  La mise en place d'un organisme des ports nationaux charge de la regulation d'un reseau de ports
autonomes
-  La privatisation des compagnies nationales aeriennes et maritimes
3.11 Le gouvernement, qui entend poursuivre les efforts de reforme, a confie au MTM le soin
d'examiner les problbmes liUs au transport routier. II estime par ailleurs necessaire de renforcer les
capacites du MTM a encadrer les conditions du marche ouvert en pleine expansion. A cet effet, le
gouvernement a sollicite I'aide de la Banque mondiale pour la realisation d'une etude de politique des
transports routiers.
3.12 Pour relancer le processus de facilitation du transport et du commerce international, condition
indispensable pour tirer les avantages economiques attendus de la rehabilitation des infrastructures de
transport, un programme d'assistance technique est aussi prevu dans le cadre du Programme Sectoriel
Transport.
Ce programme comprendra la realisation d'un audit de l'etat des proe6dures de facilitation du transport,
etabli suivant la methodologie elaboree par la Banque mondiale et ses partenaires du secteur prive dans
le cadre du Partenariat Global pour la facilitation des Transports et du Commerce. Cet audit inclut une
enqu8te systematique aupres de l'ensemble des partenaires, publics et prives, des etapes successives du
transport, afm d'en identifier les elements penalisants, tant en termes de couit que de temps, et de
proposer des mesures correctives.
D-FINANCEMENT DES AGENCES AUTONOMES
3.13   Autorite portuaire maritime et fluviale (APMF)
Le Budget Annexe des Ports (BAP), alimente par les droits et redevances portuaires ainsi que par les
redevances des concessionnaire et permissionnaires, couvre actuellement les depenses supportees par
l'Etat dans le domaine de la gestion portuaire (Service Centraux et Service Locaux). Une fois la reforme
mise en place, les recettes et depenses du BAP seront trbs notablement reduites, ce BAP
"redimensionne" ne couvrant plus que les depenses des ports restant geres en direct par l'tat (hors ports
autonomes et ports confies par "concession globale" a un operateur prive).
Des simulations financibres ont montre que, compte tenu d'un faible niveau de trafic, les ressources
generes par ces ports ne pourront pas couvrir par elles m8mes les depenses necessaires a leur
fonctionnement. Afin de ne pas penaliser ces ports qui participent activement au desenclavement
regional, il est prevu que les ports autonomes, y compris le port de Toamasina des que le nouveau
regime d'autonomie y sera institue, versent.une redevance annuelle au BAP.
La mise on place de l'APMF destine a dynamiser I'administration dos sous-secteurs portuaire et
maritime entramera le redimensionnement des ressources alimentant le BAP. Ccci se fera par
l'instauration de droits et redevances remunerant les services rendus par cet etablissement public.
3.14 Aviation Civile de Madagascar
[      Le Ddcret NO 99-125 du 17 fevrier 1999 fixe les modalites de financement d'Aviation Civile de
Madagascar (A.C.M.).
A ce titre, les ressources financieres dont peut beneficier A.C.M sont variees, mais les redevances en
constituent une partie notable.
Pour ce qui concerne ces demieres, sur tous des aeroports et aerodromes ouverts a la circulation



81
aerienne publique exploites par A.C.M., celle-ci dispose de la pleine autonomie pour imposer et
percevoir des redevances, en contrepartie des depenses qu'elle effectue et en remuneration des services
qu'elle rend aux usagers. Ces redevances se repartissent en redevances aeronautiques et redevances
extra aeronautiques:
[      Dans le cadre de sa mise en place, A.C.M. a institue le FONDS DE SECUR1TE ET DE
DEVELOPPEMENT (FSD)
Par l'Arrete n 13431/99 du 17 decembre 1999, des redevances de passagers et des frais d'utilisation ont
etd etablis en vue de contribuer au FSD. lus sont pergus sur tout vol de transport aerien public, a
l'inteineur, a destination ou en provenance de Madagascar. Actuellement, les perceptions ont deja
commence.
E. ENVIRONNEMENT
3.15 L'analyse de la situation actuelle du secteur a Madagascar indique que les travaux d'infrastructures
du Secteur Transport peuvent avoir des impacts negatifs sur l'environnement, mais aussi qu'en gbneral,
la degradation de l'environnement reste a l'origine de la destruction des infrastructures de transport et de
la baisse de la qualite des services offerts par ce secteur.
3.16 Par ailleurs, 1'etude sectorielle de l'environnement effectuee par CNRE montre que (i)les modalites
de gestion des activites sectorielles n'ont pas totalement tenu compte des aspects environnementaux
jusqu'a maintenant (ii) les analyses par sous-secteur indiquent que, dorenavant, il est necessaire
d'effectuer systematiquement au moins des EIE classiques ou allegees selon les enjeux de chaque projet
particulier lie au secteur.
Un Protocole d'accord a ete donc passe avec l'ONE. II a pour objectif de faciliter la concretisation de la
politique environnementale du secteur transport, en coherence avec la legislation environnementale
generale.
3.17 Ainsi , le Ministere des Transports et le Ministere des Travaux publics s'engagent a: (i) dynamiser
les activites des cellules environnementales ; (ii) faire realiser pour ses projets, soit une etude d'impact
enviromemental (EIE ) classique, soit une EIE allegee, suivant une classification a determiner par los
deux parties sur la base des descriptifs des projets et de leurs milieux d'implantation; (iii) contr6ler la
r6alisation effective des mesures prescrites dans l'etude environnementale allegee jusqu'a la reception
definitive des travaux et au cours de sa mise en ceuvre; (iv) verifier si ces mesures sont effectivement
efficaces.
3.18 Un autre probleme dans le cadre de l'environnement c'est la pr6sence des epaves aux alentours
et/ou a l'interieur des ports; ceci prdsente un veritable danger pour la navigation et un gene pour les
activites portuaires. Par ailleurs, le probleme de pollution marine se pose egalement. Actuellement, il a
ete recense 34 dpaves dispersees dans les differents ports . Un projet general de degagement des epaves
a ete envisage: il s ' agit de passer des contrats gratuits a des tierces personnes qui deviennent
proprietaires des -epaves tout ayant l'obligation de les enlever suivant des prescriptions etablies par
l'Administration mais jusqu 'a present ce projet n ' a pas encore ete concretise. Aussi , il a ete prevu
dans le cadre du projet fmance par la Banque mondiale, 1'enlevement des epaves dans le port de
Toalagnaro.
4.-PLAN D 'ACTIONS
Ces differentes reformes qui, en general, visent a (i) ameliorer la competitivitd du secteur Transport en
creant un environnement libdral de nature a encourager la participation du secteur prive dans des
investissements, la gestion et la promotion du secteur; (ii) creer un cadre de developpement durable du
Secteur, sont actuellement a diverses phases de mise en cuvre comme l'indique le tableau ci-dessous



CALENDRIERS DES REFORMES ET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR TRANSPORT
........... ';:9 ,2000                                              20 1              2002           0     2004   2QP-  2006 - -07
REFORME REGLEMENTAIRE
DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR PRIVE
Textes                                                   Code       Loi-cadre aviation   Code des ports   Textes d 'applicat
maritime         civile                           lol-cadre
aviation cdvile
Loi+d6crets sur
transports routiers
Privatisation:
o       aeroports pnncipaux                                                                 X                 X
0       aeroports secondaires                                                                                 2            8    15        15
o       entreprises publiques (AIR  MAD, SMTM, CMN,
RNCFM NORD)                                                        X                                                                ..__       _
Reforme institutionnelle Ports                                                              X
Partenariat public/prive      .
Terminaux de transport                                                                                        X
Fleuves                                                                                                       2                    2
RESTRUCTURATION ET POLITIQUE SECTORIELLE                          Mise en place ACM,  Restructura-
APMF                  tion MTM
PROTECTION SOCIALE ET DE
L'ENVIRONNEMENT
Depart des agents en surplus(%)                                                                              4 _ I  _  [ _  ._40  | 60  |   _____
REHABILITATION ET ENTRETIEN
DES INFRASTRUCTURES                                                                                   _
o       Ports r6habilit6s                                                                                     2            _       3
O       Fleuves rehabilites                                                                                   2                    2
O       Rihabilitation Aeroports secondaires                    .                                                          2       8      10    10      10
o       Construction  gares  routieres  et  plate-forme                                                       X
multimodale



83
Washington D.C. le 6 avril 2000
S.E.M. Charles Angelo Marc Rasolonay
Chef de delegation
Ministre des Tra orts ct de la Meteorologie
S.E.M. Jean Emile Tsaranazy
Ministre des Travaux Publics
Annexe: Dec aration de Strategie Routiere



84
Annexe
REPOBLIKAN'I MADAGASIKARA
Tanindrazana - Fahafahana - Fandrosoana
MINISTERE DES TRANSPORTS ET DE LA METEOROLOGIE
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
DECLARATION DE STRATEGIE ROUTIERE
Cadre
La strategie sectorielle routiere s'inscrit dans le cadre de la politique de redressement economique et
social pr6n6e par le Document Cadre de Politique Economique (DCPE). Elle prolonge la strategie
sectorielle des transports qui invite a renforcer le cadre institutionnel du secteur routier. Les actions
prioritaires du Plan d'Action des Transports dans le secteur routier incluent l'entretien du patrimoine et
la rehabilitation /entretien du reseau prioritaire, 1'entretien des routes secondaires de niveau regional, et
des routes ou pistes rurales d'acces aux collectivites et des voiries urbaines de niveau local, sont
retenues.
Les objectifs de cette strat6gie routiere sont de faire participer le secteur a la creation d'un
environnement favorable a la relance economique et a la lutte contre la pauvrete en encourageant
l'initiative priv6e et en assurant une infrastructure routiere adequate. Elle assigne au secteur les missions
essentielles suivantes: (i) promouvoir des echanges commerciaux fiables, rapides, et a faibles cofit, et
faciliter l'acheminement de la production agricole vers les zones de consommation; et (ii) am6liorer
l'acces de la population aux services de base et aux zones d'activites 6conomiques.
Le Gouvernement s'est engag6 dans le cadre du Document Cadre Politique Economique a: (i)
d6centraliser la construction et l'entretien routier, et creer un partenariat public -priv6 au travers de la
privatisation et la contractualisation des travaux ; (ii) etablir des agences de maitrise d'ouvrage d6l6guee
pour la construction de routes ; (iii) reviser les procedures d'appel d'offres et de passation de contrats en
eliminant les controles ex-ante et renforcant les controles ex-post ; (iv) allouer les ressources necessaires
a l'entretien routier.
Objectifs
Objectifs globaux
La strategie du Gouvernement pour le secteur routier cherche a ;(i) mieux definir et r6partir les
responsabilites entre les diff6rents acteurs du secteur; (ii) augmenter la capacite de financement du
secteur en mettant en place un mecanisme de financement viable et p6renne de la maintenance des
infrastructures routieres ; (iii) preserver et consolider le reseau par un programme d'entretien courant et
p6riodique; (iv) sauvegarder le patrimoine routier par un programme de rehabilitations ; et (v)
desenclaver les zones a fortes potentialites economiques et assurer la continuit6 territoriale dans le cadre
de la d6centralisation.
Les objectifs specifiques
Sont de: (i) mettre en place les dispositifs appropries pour concretiser le desengagement de i'Etat des
activit6s de production, sauf dans le cas d'urgence, notamment les d6gits cycloniques, et rendre
l'initiative au secteur prive, ce qui permettra, moyennant un red6ploiement des effectifs et moyens en
regie, d'augmenter la capacit6 d'executer 1'entretien courant; (ii) rendre a l'Etat, a moyen terme, son
r6le en termes de reglementation, d'etablissement de normes et de modes de passation des marches, de
planification et de programmation et de supervision des travaux routiers et du contr6le de leur qualite;
(iii) am6liorer la gestion des differents reseaux routiers y compris les pistes et routes rurales, dans le



85
cadre de la decentralisation, ce qui pour le secteur routier releve de la mise en place de la nouvelle
charte routiere et de programmes d'investissement; et (iv) assurer la priorite absolue a l'entretien des
routes, et la mise en place rapide d'un programme d'entretien routier efficace et p6renne, tant au plan du
financement que des modes operationnels.
Principales Orientations
La strategie s'appuie sur: (i) la mise en ceuvre de reformes de politique visant principalement a assister
au desengagement de l'Etat des operations productives, au developpement de la capacite du Ministere
des Travaux Publics a gerer le reseau dont il a la charge, et au developpement des entreprises locales; et
(ii) la r6habilitation, d'ici l'an 2010, d'un r6seau routier (prenant en compte l'impact socio-administratif
des priorites retenues ), qui sera progressivement etendu en fonction des disponibilites financieres
locales. En particulier, le choix du reseau a entretenir en priorite et des rehabilitations n6cessaires se
fondera sur un veritable mecanisme de programmation au niveau du reseau. Les investissements
physiques s'accompagneront de reformes institutionnelles et organisationnelles, dans les trois premieres
annees du projet.
La restructuration efficace et perenne du secteur se fera sur la base de plans d'action pour la
reorganisation du Ministere des Travaux Publics et le d6veloppement des entreprises, incluant, outre les
mesures visant a la mise en ceuvre des orientations mentionnees ci-dessus, des mesures de
developpement de la capacites: (i) du Ministere des Travaux Publics a g6rer le reseau dont il a la
charge ; et (ii) des entreprises a executer les travaux.
La decentralisation aux collectivites requiert de definir clairement l'allocation des ressources et
responsabilites entre Gouvernement central et collectivit6s decentralisees, et d'6viter la duplication avec
la creation ou le renforcement des entites territoriales de l'Etat, qui devraient 8tre eliminees lors de
transfert. La reorientation des depenses dans le sens indique par la politique sectorielle routiere
s'appuiera sur les mdcanismes du Fonds d'Entretien Routier incluant des dispositions pour l'allocation
de ressources aux collectivites decentralis6es, et le partage des responsabilites de maltrise d'ouvrage que
doit specifier la Charte Routiere.
La part des cr6dits faisant l'objet d'une repartition vers les services exterieurs du Ministere des Travaux
Publics est en cours de d6bat et d6pendra du choix des modes de realisation des travaux (I'Unite de
Production, 1'entreprise, ou la maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee) et de la participation du secteur priv6.
L'utilisation d'indicateurs pour l'allocation des ressources et la mesure des performances est n6cessaire,
et devra se baser sur des << contrats )> entre l'administration centrale et locale.
Au Ministere des Travaux Publics, ministere technique responsable, la definition des normes de
conception et d'entretien pour l'ensemble du reseau, quclqu'n soit le maitre d'ouvrage. Une strategie
pour les pistes et routes rurales prenant en compte les liaisons avec le reseau principal , et la capacite
r6elle d'entretien, est necessaire dans le cadre de la d6centralisation, et de l'6laboration des textes
d'application de la nouvelle charte routiere. Des criteres non purement economiques seront d6veloppes
pour les routes rurales, en fonction notamment des priorites de desenclavement, de la densite de
population, du potentiel de production agricole, et du trafic induit.
STRATEGIE
La strategie de mise en ceuvre des reformes de gestion du reseau routier repose sur les points suivants:
*  la revue du cadre institutionnel du secteur par: (i) une determination claire des responsabilites des
differentes maitres d'ouvrages sur le r6seau routier, et la classification fonctionnelle des routes ; (ii)
une definition du cadre reglementaire de l'exercice de la maitrise d'ouvrage, de la d6legation de la
maitrise d'ouvrage et de la maitrise d'oeuvre;
*  Ia reorganisation du Ministere des Travaux Publics par la mise en place de plans d'actions a moyen
terme pour la reorganisation du Ministere, la gestion des ressources humaines, et la formation des
personnels sur la base de: (i) la s6paration de la fonction de gestion des activites de production; (ii)
le recentrage du ministere et de ses services extdrieurs sur leurs fonctions de reglementation,



86
d'6tablissement de normes et de modes de passation des marche, de regulation du secteur, de
planification et de programmation, de gestion du reseau, et de supervision des travaux routiers et du
contr6le de leur qualite, en parallele avec la reforme de la fonction publique; et (iii) le
desengagement du Ministere des Travaux Publics des activites de production notamment par la
suppression des travaux en regie;
la creation d'un onvironnement favorable a l'initiative privee par la mise en place d'un programme
de developpement des entreprises (incluant la revision des modes de r6alisation des travaux, de
passation des marches, des types de contrats, et des modes de paiement des marches), de diminution
progressive des operations en regie, et de commercialisation ou vente des ateliers et parcs de
materiel;
*  la mise en place d'actions au plan de la securite routiere, la protection de l'environnement, la
revision des normes, et le respect des reglementations concernant les charges a 1'essieu,
*  des mesures d'accompagnement a la decentralisation conformnement a la nouvelle constitution
portant creation des provinces autonomes, et la mise en place d'un nouveau cadre institutionnel et
legal pour le secteur routier assurant une meilleure repartition et coordination des r6les entre les
diff6rents acteurs du secteur routier: MTP, collectivites territoriales, secteur priv6, agences para -
publiques et usagers.
* La mise en place d'un mecanisme de financement et de gestion efficace.
Mesures dkjk prises
*  la loi portant creation du Fonds d'Entretien Routier est promulgu6e; le Fonds d'Entretien Routier
est operationnel avec la mise en place du Conseil d'Orientation, le recrutement du personnel, son
installation, I'alimentation de Fonds suivant les deux ressources distinctes: la redevance d'usage et
le versement de la Taxe sur les Produits Petroliers;
  la Charte Routiere est votee a l'Assembl6e Nationale ainsi que les decrets portant classification des
routes nationales suivant trois cat6gories, les autres d6crets sont en cours d'approbation;
* Ia loi sur la Maltrise d'Ouvr.age publique est votee au Parlement les quatre decrets d'application
sont soumis au Conseil du Gouvemement;
* te schema de reorganisation du Ministbre est valide par le Gouvernement.
Financement des routes
Un Fonds d'Entretien Routier (FER) operationnel et autonome financibrement constitue l'6pine dorsale
de la strategie routiere du Ministere des Travaux Publics. Le secteur prive et les usagers de la route sont
les partenaires du Ministere des Travaux Publics et des collectivit6s territoriales dans la gestion du
reseau, dans la gestion du Fonds d'Entretien Routier et la definition de la redevance d'usage de la route.
Le Fonds d'Entretien Routier est ger6 par un conseil d'administration oii les repr6sentants des usagers
de la route sont majoritaires.
Le Fonds d'Entretien Routier est alimente d'une part par des Taxes sur les Produits Petroliers (TPP), et
de nouvelles ressources telle que la redevance d'usage de la route collectee a la source et vers6e
directement a son compte. Les ressources collectees a travers le Fonds d'Entretien Routier couvre 70 %
du besoin pour l'Entretien Courant actuellement
Les ressources du Fonds d'Entretien Routier pour l'annee 2000 (55 000 000 000 FMG) proviennent
pour 85 % des taxes et pour 15 % de la redevance d'usage.
La part de la Taxe sur les Produits P6troliers versee au Fonds d'Entretion Routier et le montant des
redevances allouees au Fonds d'Entretien Routier ainsi que leur augmentation progressive dans le temps



87
seront en coherence avec la programmation pluriannuelle. Une forte coordination sera assuree entre les
services de programmnation du Ministere et le Fonds d'Entretien Routier qui decidera de l'allocation des
ressources en tenant compte du programme etabli et de ses orientations. A l'horizon de 2005, les
besoins de ressources en Entretien Courant est estime a Cent Milliards de francs malagasy (100 000 000
000 FMG), et dans ce cas le Fonds d'Entretien Routier ne financera que des travaux d'entretien courant
effectues a l'entreprise.
Reformes institutionnelles
Les decrets d'application de la Charte Routiere relatifs a la classification des routes, a la creation de la
cellule environnementale du ministare, a la securite routiere et la police de la route seront enterines
avant la fin de l'annee 2000. Des plans d'action seront elabores par le Ministere des Travaux Publics et
mis en execution avant l'an 2001.
Les decrets d'application de la loi de la Maltrise d'ouvrage publique (MOP) relatifs a la mission de
maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee, la mission de maitrise d'cuvre, la mission de conducteur d 'operation, la
remuneration de l'administration en cas de conduite d'operation seront enterinns avant la fin de l'ann6e
2000. Des plans d'action seront elabores par le Ministere des Travaux Publics et mis en ex6cution pour
2001.
Reorganisation du ministere
La r6organisation du ministere repond A la strategie de desengagement de l'Etat des activites de
production et au processus de decentralisation amorc6. Un plan de mise en muvre de la reorganisation
du ministere sera adoptee avant la fm de l'annee 2001, avec un calendrier d'execution detaille. nI sera
coordonne dans le temps et dans les actions avec les recommandations qui doivent etre adoptees en
2000 dans la cadre de la reforme de la fonction publique (nouveau statut de la fonction publique). Un
plan social accompagne les mesures prises a l'endroit des personnes et agents qui seront appeles a
quitter leur fonction en depart volontaire ou involontaire.
La nouvelle organisation du Ministere des Travaux Publics permettra une separation des fonctions de
gestion de reseau des activites de production. Les services centraux du Ministere des Travaux Publics
seront charges des fonctions de r6gulation du secteur sur tous les reseaux, d'etablissement des normes et
standards techniques, des normes de gestion, de passation des marches et de maintenance, et des
controles de qualite. Ils auront A planifier les investissements de l'etat au niveau national. Ils
participeront avec les autres institutions concernees (Fonds d'Entretien Routier, Ministere des Finances)
A la maintenance de ces reseaux et a la repartition du FER.
Des agences routieres assureront la gestion des contrats des entreprises. Elles seront les maitres
d'ouvrage delegues relevant des collectivites territoriales decentralisees localisees dans le m8me
p6rimetre.
Le desengagement des activites de production sera fonde aussi sur la passation des contrats d'entretien
pour l'ensemble du reseau routier a des entreprises. Les activites de production du Ministere des
Travaux Publics seront regroupes dans un premier temps en unites de production. autonomes pour les
travaux, ger6s selon un modele de gestion privee (statut de societe anonyme) Ces unites de production
autonome seront completement privatisees en 2005.
Un programme de privatisation des entreprises publiques de travaux publics sera lance avant l'an 2001.
II concerne la Societe d'Inter8t National des Travaux Publics (SINTP) et la Societe Sino-Malgache des
Travaux Publics (SMATP), sachant, pour cette derniere, que les negociations se feront dans un cadre
bilateral.
L'Institut National de l'Infrastructure, organe de formation du Ministere des Travaux Publics, et le
Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics et du Batiment seront renforce dans le sens d'une autonomie
accrue.
Les ateliers des Divisions Regionales du Materiel et ceux du Service Logistique du Materiel



88
d'Antananarivo feront l'objet, soit de mise en vente, soit d'une autonomie reelle.
La gestion des bacs sera rendue autonome, et du type commercial.
Developpement des entreprises prives
Les activites de production par l'Etat disparaltront, sauf pour les travaux d'urgence, notamment les
degats cycloniques. La passation des contrats d'entretien pour 1'ensemble du reseau routier aux
entreprises constitue la base de developpement des entreprises privees.
La commercialisation totale de l'entretien routier est fondee sur le developpement de l'entreprise de
construction locale. Le plan d'action s'appuiera sur les orientations suivantes: (i) la professionnalisation
des entreprises de construction locale; (ii) la creation d'un marche public porteur et durable ; '(iii) la
facilitation des modes d'acces au marche et mode de paiement; (iv) l'acces aux investissements et aux
equipements . Un plan d'actions sera elabor6 et constitue les actions a mener a partir de l'annee 2000
Gestion et programmation integree du reseau
Elle s'appuiera sur: i) la defmition de sch6mas d'amenagement, et de normes de construction,
rehabilitation et entretien en tenant compto des contraintes financieres et environnementales; (ii) la
mise en place d'une base de donnees operationnelle, (iii) la rehabilitation a niveaux d'amenagement
minimal du reseau routier en tenant compte des impacts socio-6conomiques et (iv) le suivi regulier du
reseau.
Une planification a moyen terme du reseau routier et des ressources du Fonds d'Entretien Routier sera
&tablie sur la base d'une approche reseau.
Les Programmes de Depenses Publiques et Programme des Investissements Publics seront definis en
liaison etroite avec les programmes routiers, y compris les ouvrages d'art, les routes et pistes rurales et
d'acces.
L'6laboration d'un programme routier quinquennal 2000-2008 intagrera l'entretien courant, 1'entretien
periodique et la rehabilitation du r6seau routier. Elle sera faite sur la base de la capacite globale des
institutions et des entreprises du secteur, et de la capacite globale de financement. L'utilisation des
bases de donnees, de cartographie informatisee, de tableaux de bord sera la base de l'dtablissement des
programmes transmis au Conseil d'orientation du FER pour decision. Cette methodologie sera suivie
d'une facilitation de transfert de base de donn6es du central aux services deconcentres et aux
collectivites territoriales decentralisees.
Routes rurales
Une strategie de transport et developpement en milieu rural sera finalisee a la fin de 2000.
Les routes rurales constituent les r6seaux de route de distribution et de pen6tration. Par ces vocations,
elles permettent aux transports routiers d'accdder aux collectivites, aux producteurs locaux, et aux
routes principales.
Le bien etre economique et social des collectivites rurales constitue le souci fondamental dans ce
programme.
Sur cette base, un mecanisme de financement sera mis en place pour la rdhabilitation du reseau des
routes rurales.
Pour ce qui est de l'entretien des routes rurales, la responsabilisation des associations des usagers des
pistes (AUP) constitue l'6pine dorsale de la strategie.
L'environnement
Devant l'importance de l'environnement dans le sous-secteur routier le Ministere a deja mis en place,



89
depuis la recommandation de 1'6tude pour la formulation d'une politique de l'am6nagement routier
compatible avec la gestion de la ressources naturelles, en, 1997, une cellule environnementale. La cellule
devrait etre l'interlocuteur direct de l'Office National pour l'environnement dans la mise en ceuvre des
differentes composantes des APL's: les Etudes d'Impacts Environnementaux , le suivi de la mise en
ceuvre des recommandations des etudes , les mesures d'efficacite apres la mise en ceuvre.
Un Protocole a ete sign6e entre le Ministere des Travaux Publics et le Ministere de l'Environnement
tutelle directe de l'Office National pour l'Environnement pour la realisation de ces prestations pour
I'APLI.
Calendrier des acquis
On trouvera en annexe a la presente lettre un tableau representant les produits obtenus pendant la dur6e
du projet de r6forme et rehabilitation du secteur des transports.
Washington D.C. le 6 avril 2000



Programme Sectoriel des Transports
Strat6gie pour les routes
Calendrier des acquis
2000 1 2001 1 2002   2003 1 2004   2005   2006  2007   2008
R6organisation du MTP
Agences routleres operationnelles
Centrale (1 u)                                                1
Provinciales (6 u)                                            1      2       3
UPA operationnelles
Avec statut Societe Anonyme                            3      9
GPRH op6rationnel                                    .         X
Plan social                                                                                                _
Depart effectif des agents en surplus (%)                                40        60
Commercialisation-vente des activit6s de production      .            _                         _
UPA privatis6s (12 u)                                                    6       6
Bacs A gestion autonome (110 u)                      .                  50     60C
Mat6riel TP du MTP vendu (%/6)                                                100C
Acquis des DRM commercialises ou vendus (%)          ;     _  -                100-
. _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100  
Acquis des SLM-BC commercialisds ou vendus (%)
Entretien routier                                                           6
% travaux par PME                                         55     60     65     80                   100    100    100
Budget du FER                                                                _
Montant en milliards FMG                              60     70     85    100    100    100    130    130    130
Part apportee par la redevance (%)                    15     30     50     70    100    100    100    100    100
Part utilis6e pour les routes rurales (%)              5      7     1 0    1 3     1 5    1 8    20      20     20
Nouveau statut du FER                                   x
Remise en 6tat du rseau routier (km) - tous financements 
Routes Nationales (11172 km - nouvelle Charte Routiere)         _
Longueur remise en etat (km)                          20    240    375    597    150    250    650   1100        0
% du r6seau en 6tat correct (bon et moyen)            53     55     59     64      65     68     73      83     83
Routes rurales                                                                                                 I _
Longueur remise en etat (km)                                                      200    475    825           -
UPA:  Unit6 de Production Autonome (brigade de l'ex-regie qui vont travailler avec les regles du priv6)
GPRH: Gestion Pr6visionnelle des Ressources Humaines
MTP:  Ministdre des Travaux Publics
DRM:  Division R6gionale du Mat6nel (Unit6 qui a fonction de gerer Is mat6eiel de la r6gie actuelle et de le r6parer)
SLM:  Service de la Logistique et de la Maintenance (atelier situe dans la capitale, charg6 d'effectuer les grosses rdparations du mat6del de /a r6gie)
SBC:  Service des Batiments Civils (unit6 situ6 dans /a capitale pour rentretien des batiments de l'Etat)
PME:  Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
FER:  Fonds d'Entretien Routier (alloue les cr6dits de lentretien routior pour l'ensemble des r6seaux (national, provinciaux, communaux)



91
Annex 10: Project Processing Schedule
_~~~EM
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               12                      1 2
First Bank mission (identification)                   01t12t93                01112/93
Appraisal mission departure                           10/1812000              10125/2000
Negotiations                                         01/1012000              0410312000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         08/01/2000
Prepared by: Ministries of Transport and Meteorology and Ministry of Public Works with the
support of the Office National de l'Environnement
Preparation assistance: PPF facility and Danish Trust Fund; assistance in kind was also provided by
the French Cooperation, USAID, and the Bank-managed Road Management Initiative (RMI) and
Rural Travel and Transport Programn (RTTP)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Pedro Geraldes                                         Team Leader since 07/01/99
Bemard Becq                                            Senior Project Officer/Roads Specialist and former Team
Leader until his transfer to the LAC Region
Marc Juhel                                             Senior Port Specialist
Michel Audige                                          Senior Port Specialist (Preparation)
Javier Burgos                                          Private Sector Development/Aviation Specialist
Nina Chee                                              Environment Specialist
Karim-Jacques Budin                                    Principal Railways Specialist
Bienvenu Rajaonsan                                     Environmental Coordinator, Resident Mission
Gervais Rakotoarmanana                                 Financial Management Specialist, Resident Mission
Sylvain Rambeloson                                     Procurement Specialist, Resident Mission
Michele Rajaobelina                                    Program Assistant, Resident Mission
Michele Loire                                          Principal Transport Economist (Preparation)
Vaughan Corbett                                        Transport Economist, Consultant
Jolanda Pretorius                                      Transport Economist
Salim Bouzekouk                                        Associate, Ecole National des Ponts et Chaussees
Solange Alliali                                        Counsel
Cristopher Kibe                                        Legal Team Assistant



92
David Freese                                           Disbursement Officer
Maryanne Sharp                                         Operations Assistant
Cecilia Kennedy                                        Disbursement Analyst
Monique Francis-Desthuis                               French Translator
Lawrence Mastri                                        Editor
Kenneth Gwilliam                                       Principal Transport Economist, Peer Reviewer
Juan Gaviria                                           Senior Transport Specialist, Peer Reviewer
Irene Xenakis                                          Operations Support Advisor
Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao                                  Senior Private Sector Specialist (Preparation)
Jean-Jacques Raoul                                     Procurement Advisor (until his transfer from the Africa Region)
Nadjib Sefta                                           Acting Procurement Advisor
Nadege Thadey                                          Operations Team Assistant
Josianne Luchmun                                       Operations Team Assistant (Negotiations)
Adelaide Barra                                         Operations Team Assistant (Preparation)



93
Annex 11: Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
A.1    Corps
A.2   Annexe Al A   Termes de reference des etudes, assistances techniques et formations sous I'APL-
1 des composantes du MTM
A.3   Annexe AIB   Termes de reference des etudes, assistances techniques et formations sous l'APL-
1 des composantes du MTP
A.4    Annexe A2A   Termes de reference des etudes de preparation et supervision, et dossiers d'appel
d'offre, pour les investissements physiques sous les composantes du MTM
A.5    Annexe A2B   Termes de reference des etudes de preparation et supervision, et dossiers d'appel
d'offre, pour les investissements physiques sous les composantes du MTP
B. Bank Staff Assessments
B. 1.   Final PCD Package
B.2   Pre-Appraisal Package
B.3   Pre-Appraisal Reviewers' Assessments and Feedback by Team Leader
B.4    Minutes of the Pre-Appraisal Review Meeting
B.5    Terms of Reference for the Appraisal and Post-Appraisal Missions
B.6    Aide-Memoires of the Preparation, Appraisal and Post-Appraisal Missions
B.7   Pre-Negotiations Package
B.8    Minutes of Negotiations
B.9    Review of Engineering Designs and draft-Procurement Documents
B.10  Cost Model
B. 11  Economic and Financial Analysis Model
B. 12  Financial Management
B. 13  Agency Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
C. 1   Selected Government Legislation
C.2   Environmental Assessment
C.2. 1 Sector Assessment, CNRE Report (three volumes)
C.2.2. APL-1 Subproject Assessment and Mitigation, CNRE
C.2.3 ONE's Validation of APL-1 Subproject Environmental Assessment
C.2.4 Public Dissemination
C.3    Road Network
C.3. 1 Primary network, Ramnboll Report
C.3.2 Rural roads, Ramboll Report
C.3.3 Road Maintenance, French Cooperation
C.4    Background Information on the Railways Sub-Sector
C.5   Engineering designs for APL-1 subprojects
C.6    Background Information for the Economic and Financial Analysis
C.7    Various Government, Donors, and Bank Documents
*Including electronic files.



Annex 12: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations In Madagascar Operations Portfolio
Closed 68
Projects
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                    Expected and Actual
Board 
Date                                            Supervision Rating            Original Amount in US$ Millions      Disbursements W
Fiscal                                      DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects                       Dew.ob ment Im gementatsn       IBRD        IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
1990    P001540   FIN SECTOR/APEX                 S             S                0         48       2.68      2.1      1.27     -1.61
1990    P001512   TANA PLAIN DEV                  U             S                0          0         0         0        0          0
1992    P001552   VOC. EDUCATION                  S             S                0          0         0         0        0          0
1995    P001563   AG.EXrENSION PROJECT            S             S                0       25.2         0      2.48       4.2         0
1995    P001522   IRRIGATION II                   S             S                0       21.2         0      3.38      2.61         0
1996    P001533   ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOP           S             S                0         46         0    23.46       16.8         0
1996    P035669   SOCLAL FUND 2                   S             S                0         40         0         0      0.04         0
1997    P040019   CAPACITY BUILDING               S             S                0      13.83         0      2.92      1.84         0
1997    P001537   ENVIRON. II                    S              S                0         30         0    10.78      -2.95        0
1997    P001555   PRIVSECTDEV&C.B.                S             S                0       23.8         0    10.58      11.16     -2.34
1997    P048697   URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE            S             S                0         35         0    25.19      12.28         0
1998    P001559   EDUCATiON SECTOR DEV            S             U                0         65         0    60.79    20.11           0
1998    P056487   MINING PROJECT                  S             S                0          5         0      4.03      2.28     -0.19
1998    P001568   NUTRMON II                      S             S                0       27.6         0    24.41       4.48         0
1998    P001564   RURALWATERSEC.PILO              U             U                0       17.3         0    15.39      11.25         0
1999    P052186   MICRO FINANCE                   S             S                0       16.4         0    13.99       1.01        0
1999    P057378   SAC II                          S             S                0        100         0    98.87       55.8        0
1999    P064305   SOCIAL FUND III                 S             S                0         15         0       6.7    -5.82         0
20C0    P062628   Regional Development                                           0        4.6         0      4.57        0          0
2000    P051741   Secornd Health Sector Support   #                              0         40         0        39        0         0



95
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio in Madagascar
As of 2/29/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY         Company         Loan    Equity Quasi  Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
Approval
1990/91    AEF FIARO              0  0.19       0     0    0  0.19    0       0
1997       AEF GHM              0.88     0      0     0 0.88      0    0      0
1995       AEF Karibotel        0.26     0      0     0 0.26      0    0      0
1992/93/95  AQUALMA             1.43     0      0     0  1.43     0    0      0
1991       BNI                    0  2.61       0     0    0  2.61      0     0
1983/89    Nossi-Be             0.44  0.14      0     0 0.44  0.14    0       0
Total Portfolio:         3.01  2.94      0      0 3.01   2.94    0     0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity Quasi  Partic
1999 AEF Bora Hotel      0.35     0       0     0
1999 AEF Manerinerina    0.15     0       0     0
1998 AEF Tami            0.98     0       0     0
2000 BOA Madagascar         0  1.60    0.58     0
Total Pending Commitment:     1.47  1.60    0.58     0



96
Annex 13: Country at a Glance
Madagascar at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Saharan     Low-
Madagascar   Africa  incone       Development dianonde
1998
Pooulalron. mid-vear (n/ilions)                  14.6     628    3.515                 Lifeexpectan
GNP aercaDia (Atbs meAtro. US$)                  260       480      520                          cy
GNP (Atlas method, USS biNons)                    3.8      304    1.844
Avers" annual growth, 1992-8
Population (%)                                    2.9      2.6      1.7
Laborforce(%)                                     2.8      2.6      1.9     GNP         J       \         Gross
peIr                         primary
Most reent astimate (latest year avatlable, 1992-98)                        capt7                        pmry
Povertv (% of doulatton below national poverty line)
Urban ooDubcion (% ototalDooulation)              28        33       31
Lie exectanov at birth (vears)                    58        51       63
Infant mortai ,ow t. Oh ve biths)                 94       91        69
Child mainutrition (% of ohildren under 5)        34        ..       ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of ODutation)             16        47       74
lloterav (% of ooouion ape 15+)                   46        42       32
-Gross riDnarv enrollment (% ofschool-ape population.  72   77      108                 Madagascar
Male                                            73.      84       113                Low-income group
Female                                          70       69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987     1997     1998
Economic ratose
GDP (US$ biSions)                        2.4      2.6      3.5      3.7
GrossdomestichivestmentUGDP               8.1    10.1     11.8     13.8
Exportsotgoodsand services/GoP          16.4    16.6      21.8     21.2                   Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                4.5     5.2      3.3      5.3
Gross national savings/GDP                4.4     4.4      5.9      5.7
Current account balance/GDP              -2.7    -5.7     -5.6     -7.5
Interest payments/GOP                    0.2      4.1      1.3      1.2     Domestic                  Investment
Total debUGOP                            12.4   143.5    115.9    108.2     Savings
Total debt service/exports               12.2    50.7     22.0     23.0
Present value of debt/GP                   ..      ..    82.0
Present value of debtlexports             ..       ..   324.6
Indebtedness
197747 1988-98    1997      1998  199943
(average annual growth)
GOP                              -0.1     1.1     3.7      3.9      5.9                 Madagascar
GNPpercapta                     -3.5    -1.2      1.5      1.6      2.8                 Lovinegnp
Exports of goods and servkes    -5.0     3.4    -3.8      -4.5      6.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987     1997     1998      Growth ratesofooutput and lnvaslment(
(X of GDP)                                                                  so
Agriculture                              32.8    36.2     31.5     30.6
industry                                17.0    13.7      13.4     13.6    40
Manufaeturing                            ..   11.4       11.1       ..   20
Services                                50.2    50.1      55.0     55.8      o
Private consumption                     84.5    85.7      89.0     87.2   .20    93               o    7   s
General oovernment consumotion           11.0     9.1      7.6      7.5                _ W        -srDP
Imports of goods and services           20.0    21.5      30.3     29.7
197747 1988-98      1997     1998     Growth rates of exposl and hsprb
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                               1.7     1.7      1.9      2.1     2
Industry                                 -2.0     1.1      4.7      5.3    15 I A
Manufacturing                            ..    0.1        1.7       ..   10
Services                                 -0.8     1.2      4.6      5.1
Private consumption                      -0.9     1.8      5.7      6.0     o
General aovernment consumDtion            1.7    -1.7     14.8     -4.0     4
Gross domestic investment                -1.6    -1.0     -0.6      9.0   o10
Imports of goods and services            -6.2     3.6      7.8      4.9            -    Expors      ' *"mpols
Gross nationa product                    -0.8     1.5      4.7      4.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The demonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wth ts income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wiV
be incomplete.



97
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987     1997    1998        ntlaion (%)
Donhs*c pdcs -
(% change)
Consumer pdkes                             ..   18.9        4.5      62      40           t
Impkici GDP deflator                      8.6    23.0       7.5      8.6
Govenment finance
(%or GDP, hckwdes cunwt grants) 
Current revenue                             ..   15.3      1 1.8    10.9            93 a       95  9a   97
Curent budget balene                        ..    3.6       0.9      0.6              -GDP defltor         CPI
Overal splur/derci                         ..    3.4       -5.6    -7.2
TRADE
(US$ MAWWS)                              1977    1967     1997    1998       Export and Import lvels (USS nililons)
Totl exports gob)                                 332       54       519    1.000
Coffee                                    ..      93       33       41
Otherfood                                         89       10       16      7
Manufactures                              ..      69      342      403      GM,
Total iports (c)                            ..    409       802      791
Food                                      ..     52        49       56      250
Fuelandenergy                             ,,    S5        117      105
Capital goods                                    102      146      153        o
92  93  94  95  9f  97  99
Expoit prce   ex (1995-100)                ..      94        81       89
Import priceiKdex (1995a100)               ..      79        92      87               Expoft       impos
Terms oftrade (1995.100)                    ..    119        88      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(1977    1987    1997    1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
(US$  )mw
Exports of goods and sefvices             385     425       772      801 o
imports of goods and services             447     552     1.063    1,098     -2
Resource balance                          .62    -127      -290    -297
.4
Net income                                 -1   -175       -103      -85
Net cunrenttransfers                        0     154       195      101      o 
Cunrent account balance                   -63    -147      -198    -281      -s
Fnancing iems (net)                        77     216       253      163     10
Changes in net reserves                   -14     -69       -55      118     12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ miNoJ)         0      25       286      170
Conversion rate (DEC, kxcaMUSS)         245.7  1,069.2   5,093.4  5,441.4
EXTERNAL DEuT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987     1997    1998
(US$ niibns)                                                                 Composltfon of total deb 1998 (USS nilIlio
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      293   3,680    4,105    4,056
IBRD                                     26      36         3        1
IDA                                      77     550     1,212    1,329                     0.5
Totaldebtservbce                           47     247       229      233
IBRD                                      2       4         4        2         1525
IDA                                       1       6        19      25
Composkion of net resource flows
OWical grants                            22     102       193      117
OMlcialcrediors                          17     269       113
Private crediors                         20     -16        -3      -2
Foreign drect investment                 -3       ..       14       16
Portfolio equity                          0       ..       ..       ..                   575      54
Vorld Bank program
Comnitments                               0     138       159       98     A - IBRD                  E  Bilateral
Disbursements                             9      93       130     101      B-IDA    D - Ower mullateal F- Private
Principal repayments                      0       3        13       2      C.IMF                     G-Shortt
Netlioa                                   9      90       117       99
Interest payments                         2       7         9       15
Net transfers                             6      83       108       84
Devebpment Economics                                                                                       9/22/99






t                                           A6- A                                                                                    50 
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                                                1T
TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORM AND                                                                                                          0Antnono
REHABILITATION PROJECT
(APL-Phase 1)
ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE SUBPROJECTS                                                                        Anon ben
CjJ.          SECONDARY PORT IMPROVEMENTS                                                                                     --         0Vnrino
f4.04:_          PILOT SPOT IMPROVEMENT OF RIVER NAVIGATION AND                                                 RN6
CARGO TRANSFER FACILITIES
RN6            PERIODIC MA NTENANCE OF NATIONAL ROADS                                                    Ambon1o
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SUBPROJECTS:
SHIPWRECK REMOVAL
EMERGENCY COASTAL PROTECTION                                                                     RyoD io
PAVED ROADS                                                          ,    ohY  =                                        Andopo
ROUTES BtTUMEES                                                                                                                       Antolne
ALL-WEATHER ROADS
ROUTES ACCESSIBIES EN TOUTE SAISON
RAILROADS
CH-EAiN DE FER                                                                                                            MnRton
- .-      RIVERS'
FARITANYT OIUNDARIES                   _      -    =                               . ,
LIMITER DES FARITANY                                                                                 '  .d"
.. _ MiyOvo       o t I       .     .... pL                  '''   xMonononoId
R oen  9-1;
AK- *2       m      1 C t rr I C;  Minooo sR    My .Too n5-Sto niono ikI                                              '.                    Soonirnna-lnongo0;_   
RN44/   L                  ooonio AN44 nonoOo
Chonrel                                                                                                                      -
ob- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~nooonn~SAp                                   ToAo
2?                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,o  I   (0'
18  Moneimban aMoro  0E       ON o                                        '0                                                                                    IL0
_                                   _         AlakomlRenoon       Aol-n y         _      t          non don  o' E                                       .
,     Oana     /   A_l-  -nonl F!  Iurollt   RN25  l-
Tproooooonars -   ,,1CO1',,   ,   4  ~  "   - _ddy  --  AAmbodol y .   .   ,,
-22'                                                ~           i.    nere                                          pa  g                                                                             22-
SakashO .  !      ,. -       1ooononoo              VaIndaO 00010    Onl-In&9Vo-nnno
Toliary   , r                                     VangoindranoCi                                              The VVoflrld lu^(i f P.>akYrljb ryinnor
.   tBeEdky e; *1          o       o    t           OMldonP nolol-o0  9AdooIe4y  0             0  Vol ennodny
24t ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~      Ri '            'n d i                     ' RN3S       .                                    24                        50
To   ,n                        ,     ondo           nin O                                                                    Mmo/
Ampon hy -  ~ ,   ,  .                  /                                               S      a   1        M bu)  M          ,       l 
.o                                    .1                                                                         Cl nnoonnl-L
D                                                                               O        50       100       I SO     200                           7.&iar 2                          2P~nnoo0  CT j~n
Aloknnon,.  Vnl-npononoI  ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      lb,   , d            16 n  2 
22lOMTR                                                                                                                                               (L5                                              2n-2
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h 44'I 4- '- 4-" i   n P
4;                      I~~~~~~~~
Be ~ ~ ~~~~~~B7E                                                                                           onoynnilrnoinlon  on
-                                ll-nnnnonoolonothnply on lineponnol50
2A"                                                                                  N                                                   2TloyD  -AT- WR  Bn Wo   nyolgoo
'R`
A  non 8n0                                                                             10       0            nnol-~~~~~~~~on00  6       0'0
KILOMETER3- 
: 21' ~   ~
4        All'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
14,                                                                     11,~~~~~~~~~~  T  0   IT  52oonon



