                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35035

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (PPFI-P7870 PPFI-P7871 PPFI-P7872 IDA-33640)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 48.4 MILLION (US$66.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                            MADAGASCAR

                                                 FOR A

                TRANSPORT SECTOR REFORM AND REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                           JANUARY 30, 2006




Africa Region
Transport

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2005)

                                        Currency Unit =      Malagasy Ariary (MGA)
                                             100 MGA = US$ 0.049
                                                 US$ 1 = MGA 2,053.09

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1      December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACM          - Aviation Civile de Madagascar (Civil Aviation Authority)
APL          - Adaptable Program Loan
APMF         - Agence Portuaire, Maritime et Fluviale (Port Authority)
ATT          - Agence de Transport Terrestre (Land Transport Agency)
CAS          - Country Assistance Strategy
CGGTX        - Cellule de Gestion des Grands Travaux (Management of Large Works Unit)
DCA          - Development Credit Agreement
DPTP         - Direction Provinciale des Travaux Publics (Public Works Provincial Department)
EIRR         - Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENEAM        - Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement de l'Aéronautique et de la Météorologie (Aeronautic and
Meteorology Institute)
GOM          - Government of Madagascar
IPR          - Independent Procurement Review
MOTM         - Ministry of Transport and Meteorology (until 2002)
MOPW         - Ministry of Public Work (until 2002)
MPWT         - Ministry of Public Works and Transport (since March 2005)
NPV          - Net Present Value
MARPOL - Marine Pollution (International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships)
OPRC         - Oil Pollution Preparedness Response and Cooperation
PAD          - Project Appraisal Document
PDO          - Project Development Objective
PRSP         - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RA/AR        - Roads Authority/ Autorité Routière
RMF/FER - Road Maintenance Fund/ Fonds d'entretien Routier
RUC          - Road User Charges
RUR          - Redevances d'Usage de la Route (Road Users Fees)
SE-PST       - Secrétariat Exécutif du Programme Sectoriel des Transports (Executive Secretariat of
Transport Sector Program)
SMEs         - Small and Medium Enterprises
TPP          - Taxes sur les Produits Pétroliers (Oil taxes)
TSRRP        - Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitation Project
VER        - Vignette d'Entretien Routier (Fees for Road Maintenance)
VPM        - Vice Primature chargée des Programmes économiques, Ministère des Transports, des Travaux
Publics et de l'Aménagement du territoire (from April 2003 to March 2005)

                 Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
              Country Director    James P. Bond
               Sector Manager     C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka

                                        MADAGASCAR
                           MG-Transp Sec Reform & Rehab (FY00)


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 38
Annex 9. Various Statistics and Financial Data                                   53
Annex 10. Tables containing ratings criteria/ indicators                         58

Project ID: P052208                                                  Project Name: MG-Transp Sec Reform & Rehab (FY00)
Team Leader: Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka                                 TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 31, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: MG-Transp Sec Reform & Rehab (FY00)                      L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P7870; PPFI-P7871;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7872; IDA-33640
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (53%); Roads and highways (26%); Ports, waterways and
                            shipping (15%); Other industry (3%); Aviation (3%)
                  Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P); Social risk mitigation (S); Environmental policies
                            and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/02/1998                                     Effective: 08/01/2000                11/28/2000
     Appraisal: 10/25/1999                                         MTR: 05/28/2002                  09/27/2002
      Approval: 06/01/2000                                      Closing: 07/31/2005                 07/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF MADAGASCAR/MINISTRIES OF TRANSPORT/PUBLIC WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               James P. Bond                                  Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:             Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka                        D. Pedro Geraldes
ICR Primary Author:             Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The objective and the design of the Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitation Project (TSRRP,
APL1) need to be assessed in the context of the economic and institutional conditions prevailing in
Madagascar in the late 1990s. The country had been under structural adjustment programs for about 20
years, and the results began to be visible in 1988. Economic growth rates were superior to population
growth, except between 1991-1996 when the program was suspended. Various measures were taken,
including the liberalization of imports and domestic trade, and the disengagement of the State from
productive and commercial activities.

The transport sector plays a key role in Madagascar's growth and poverty alleviation strategy. Increased
foreign investment, development of the country's eco-tourism and mining potential, growth in agricultural
output, and reduction of rural isolation, all depend on the efficiency of transport services and the
availability of appropriate transport infrastructure. Unfortunately, three decades (1970-2000) of
inappropriate sector policies have led to a serious deterioration of the country's transport infrastructure.
During this period the country lost on average 1,000 km of roads per year due to lack of maintenance. In
April 2000, after almost ten years of sector dialogue with the World Bank, but no IDA lending, the country
adopted a comprehensive transport sector policy and strategy, which aims at (i) focusing the government's
role on strategic planning, sector oversight and coordination; (ii) creating public-private controlled and
user-financed agencies for sub-sector management and regulatory functions; (iii) divesting operational
activities to the private sector, through privatization and concessioning arrangements; (iv) developing the
local private sector for works design and execution; and (v) rehabilitating transport infrastructure to
appropriate levels. The Bank provided financial support to the implementation of this strategy through an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL), the first phase of which was launched shortly after the finalization of the
strategy. The APL was designed and is being implemented jointly with other donors, users, and the private
sector.

The TSRRP, with a credit amount of SDR 48.4million (US$66m), was the first (APL1) of the four APL
phases.. Two years into implementation, and to respond to government's changing sector priorities, the
phasing and packaging was revisited. It was decided to bring forward the rural transport project which had
originally been under APL3 and to combine APL2 and APL4 which had respectively intended to strengthen
the newly created regulatory agencies and finance residual infrastructure needs.

Regarding the identification of objectives of the TSRRP, there are discrepancies between the Project
Development Objectives as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Annex 1 (Logframe) and the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). According to the DCA, the objective of the Project is to provide
assistance to the Borrower's Program for the strengthening of its sector policy and management through
support to the (a) further liberalization of its aviation, port, maritime, coastal shipping, road transport
services; (b) development of an autonomous regulatory framework; (c) reactivation of the trade and
transport facilitation process; (d) promotion of public/private partnerships in investment and management
of primary transport facilities and users/ beneficiaries in operations and maintenance; (e) restructuring of
the MOTM (Ministry Of Transport and Meteorology) and the MOPW (Ministry Of Public Works); (f)
improvement of the competitiveness of small private transport operators and contractors; (g) development
of a strategy for road transport policy and management; and (h) implementation of an environmentally
sustainable sector investment program.
In the PAD's PDO description, the project was intended to:
     i. strengthen transport sector policy and management;
    ii. strengthen road management;



                                                      - 2 -

    iii. support the implementation of an environmental and social mitigation strategy for the transport
         sector; and,
    iv. restore infrastructure facilities.
Last, in the PAD's logframe, the project development objectives were spelt out as follows: (i) reduce
transport cost and sustainably improve accessibility, especially in rural areas and (ii) environmental and
social protection. In fact, what is stated in the logframe reflects the purpose of the whole program. For the
purpose of the ICR, the team chose the objectives as stated in the PAD's PDO description as it reflects
more the outcomes to be assessed.

A second difficulty stems from the fact that the TSRRP emphasized more on institutional reforms, but the
outcomes reflect the entire APL program rather than just the first APL itself.

However, all these objectives reflected the priorities for the transport sector development in Madagascar at
that time, as identified by both the GOM and by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). They are
still relevant to the Borrower's priorities, as described in its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
aiming at: (i) improving governance; (ii) promoting broad based growth; and (iii) providing human security,
and the Bank's CAS, which supports the implementation of the government's priorities. As a matter of
fact, poverty reduction can only be achieved if the whole population can benefit from growth. Inadequate
access to transport is the main obstacle to higher agricultural productivity, the provision of basic services
and a greater impact of growth on the entire population.
These objectives were also focused and limited in scope. The project could make a comprehensive and
global approach to include: (i) sector policies and institutional reforms, (ii) capacity building, (iii)
multimodal perspective, and (iv) infrastructure improvements. It was also reasonably demanding on the
Borrower.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original development objectives of the project did not change during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following components, which were reasonably related to achieving the
objectives:

A. Regulatory Reform and Private Sector Development.
This component included the following activities:
     a. Strengthening the newly established civil aviation authority, Aviation Civile de Madagascar
         (ACM);
     b. Reforming the port sector and setting up an autonomous port and shipping regulatory agency;
     c. Spinning-off of the public works force account activities and commercialization of the MOPW's
         productive activities;
     d. Developing the domestic private sector (road transport entrepreneurs; construction contractors);
         and
     e. Establishing a facilitation audit/facilitating foreign trade through transport-related measures.

B. Organizational Restructuring and Sector Policy.
This included the following activities:
     a. Restructuring of the MOTM and the MOPW;
     b. Preparation of social mitigation plans for ministry staff made redundant by the creation of the
         autonomous sector agencies;
     c. Capacity building; and



                                                       - 3 -

    d. Reform of the road sector policy.

C. Environmental Protection.
This included the following activities:
    a. Implementing a sector environmental assessment and follow-up framework;
    b. Developing a strategy on preventing and mitigating the impact of natural catastrophes;
    c. Strengthening emergency coastal protection to preserve economic and social activities in
        Toamasina and Morondava;
    d. Ratification and implementation of the MARPOL and OPRC Conventions;
     e. Removing shipwrecks and the subsequent disposal of wreckage materials in the port of
        Taolagnaro, as a pilot operation; and
     f. Acquisition of prefabricated metallic bridges and other temporary structures, to strengthen
        emergency reserves for mitigating natural catastrophes.

D. Improvement of Economic Infrastructure.
This component included the following activities:
    a. Rehabilitation and other improvement works in the ports of Toliara and Mahajanga and the rivers
        Tsiribihina and Sofia as a pilot operation for the improvement of river navigation and cargo
        transfer facilities;
    b. Road works, including periodic maintenance, on about 530km of national roads, including RN
        25/45, RN 6, RN 34 and RN 44/3a;
    c. Infrastructure feasibility studies and technical advisory services (for selected ports, maritime
        signaling, rehabilitation of national roads, improvement of rural roads, improvement of railways,
        secondary and tertiary airports); and
    d. Supervision of civil works for roads, rivers, and ports under the project.

The design of the four components was clearly linked to the objectives described above: the credit could
focus on the Government's main sector priorities, i.e. sector reforms and critical investments. Moreover,
APL1 was an instrument for capacity building in the ministry and agencies and also helped prepare APL2
and 3.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was formally restructured and confirmed by the DCA amendment letter of January 17, 2004 to
include civil works for the rehabilitation of RN43 and improvements to the airports of Ivato and Nosy Be,
including the provision of security and airport handling equipment. These changes were reasonably related
to the project objectives and responded to emerging government priorities.
The shipwreck removal was dropped from the project because offers received were three times the expected
costs, and plans were emerging for the construction of a new port, which would render the existence of the
wreck a lesser problem. Due to delays resulting from the political crisis of 2002, periodic maintenance of
the RN25 was reprogrammed and included in APL2. These changes in activities did not alter the
components in a substantial way and did not interfere with the project achieving its development objective.
The final credit allocations are provided in Annex 2.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory, for the following reasons:

    a. As mentioned earlier, the project objectives were consistent with the Government's priorities in the
        transport sector, the Bank's CAS, and met the critical needs of the transport sector;
    b. The implementation agency, Executive Secretariat of the Transport Sector Program (SE-PST),
        demonstrated the required administrative, financial and technical capacity during the first two years



                                                       - 4 -

         of the project, with adequate staff and discharge of its responsibilities;
     c. The project took in consideration lessons learned from other earlier Bank transport projects (from
         1966 to 1996), and incorporated them into the project design. Thus, particular attention was paid
         to ensuring a better dialogue, further commitment to project objectives, shared view on key issues,
         such as the importance of road maintenance, improvement of information sharing, and the
         improvement of the institutional capacity of the implementing agency; and
     d. The government, with technical assistance, prepared a project implementation plan and a project
         procurement plan prior to effectiveness. Even though no baselines were available at project
         appraisal, a system of monitoring and evaluation was in place when the project became effective,
         but there was a lack of follow up from the government and the sector monitoring unit.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall assessment:

The overall outcome of this first phase of the APL was satisfactory, as the Project achieved most of its
objectives, even though the implementation problems of the APL program shortly before the Project's
closing tended to overshadow its achievements. The most significant shortcoming was the weakness in
monitoring and evaluation which means that performance indicators lacked baseline data and often
quantitative targets. Nevertheless, the following achievements can be observed:

(i) Strengthening transport sector policy and management.
The strengthening of the transport sector policy and management was satisfactory.
The government reinforced its focus on strategic planning, sector oversight and coordination:
-        it created a competitive environment in the transport sector, and withdrew from transport services.
In the air transport sub-sector, key bilateral air services agreement were revised to allow further
competition;
-        it promoted public/private partnerships through: (i) concessioning agreements (northern rail
network was concessioned in October 2002; the container terminal of the main commercial port of
Toamasina was concessioned in June 2005); and (ii) the management contract for the national airline was
signed in October 2002);
-        the private sector and transport users are represented on the oversight boards of the road
maintenance fund (FER, Fonds d'entretien Routier), ACM, and APMF;
-        some of the ministry's staff were recruited by the regulatory agencies (ACM and APMF) as a
first phase of the ministry's social mitigation plan;
-        the setting-up of the Land Transport Agency (ATT, Agence de Transport Terrestre) and Road
Authority (AR, Autorité Routière) is in progress, even though with delays.

(ii) Strengthening road sector management.
The strengthening of road sector management was satisfactory.
Road sector management was strengthened through various measures supported by IDA and other donors,
especially the European Union.          The Administration's capacity to carry out road planning and
programming, monitoring road construction/rehabilitation and road maintenance was enhanced through
capacity building, provision of computer equipment and software. Staff was trained in the use of the
equipment. The ministry elaborated a mid-term road improvement program (2002-2008) for which it
obtained support and funding from the donors. This road program had various positive impacts, including a
better visibility for private sector contractors and engineering offices of upcoming tenders; international
contractors entered the market; and, jobs were created, as illustrated below.



                                                       - 5 -

Table 1. Number of job created by road works in Madagascar in 2003 and 2004

                                    2003
Designation                                                      2004
                       Roads main-    Number of job Roads main-    Number of job
                       tained/        created       tained/        created
                       rehabilitated,               rehabilitated,
   Type of works       km                           km


   Routine
   maintenance         6 000          7 200         6 224          8 745



   Rehabilitation of
   rural roads         1 670          5 500         1 012          3 340




   Rehabilitation /
   Periodic
   maintenance of
   paved roads         180            540           482            1 446
   Total               7 850          13 240        8 782          13 531



The Project also assisted the ministry to introduce transparent procurement processes, manage the new
competitive contracting system, incorporate the provincial departments in project management, and
increase participation of the local private sector in civil works and provision of transport services. Among
the measures applied in the road transport are the following: beginning of axle road control on the main
national road, RN2; improvements in road safety for data collection, which is now centralized at the
MPWT; effort to create a database for all transport modes, even though no implementation was carried out.
Regarding the road maintenance system, the Road Maintenance Fund (FER, Fonds d'Entretien Routier)
was reformed and started to operate as a second-generation RMFs. Internal controls and administration
were greatly strengthened and the fund could effectively mobilize resources allocated to maintenance.
Further details on the operation of the FER are provided below.

 (iii) Support to the implementation of an environmental and social mitigation strategy for the transport
sector.
The support to the implementation of an environmental and social mitigation strategy for the transport
sector was moderately unsatisfactory.
The project supported the elaboration of the social mitigation plan to benefit staff affected by the
restructuring of the ministry. The plan is now being implemented under APL3. Despite sustained efforts,
the project was unable to set-up a functioning environmental and social safeguards unit in the ministry. A
unit has been created within the MPWT recently which has benefited from capacity building from the
Bank's safeguards specialist at the country office; however, the unit is still unable to operate effectively.
Given the ongoing restructuring of the ministry it was recently decided to strengthen the safeguards



                                                       - 6 -

capacity of the large works unit, (CGGTX-Cellule de Gestion des Grands Travaux), and hiring of a local
expert and international technical assistance are being finalized.

(iv) Restoring infrastructure facilities.
The objective of restoring infrastructure facilities was satisfactory.
The project fully achieved its objective of restoring selected, high priority infrastructure. Traffic has
increased at the ports of Mahajanga and Tulear and cargo handling has become more efficient and safer.
Periodic maintenance of the national roads has reduced transport costs and travel time. These benefits are
discussed in detail below.

Assessment of each outcome indicator:

Summarized performance indicators are provided in Annex 1.

(a) Greater competition in international air transport services.
Even though the number of new airlines serving the country did not increase significantly, the policy of
liberalization has radically changed the features of the air transport environment. For the domestic network,
the expected competition did not occur, as the national air carrier, Air Madagascar remains the only
scheduled airline; and the number of charter airlines did not increase either. Service and reliability of the
national carrier has however improved since the start of the management contract with Lufthansa
Consulting. For the international network, the most significant impact was observed on the main route with
France, further to the revision of the bilateral air services agreement in 2004. Any restriction on the setting
of fares, frequency, type of aircraft and capacity was removed. The multi-designation system allowed the
entrance of a third scheduled carrier. All these changes resulted in a capacity increase of 60% between
2000 and 2005, an increase in the number of passengers, and an average fare reduction of 30% to 40%.

(b) Reduction of average transit cost and time in main trade corridors.
The implementation of the recommendations included in the Multi-sector Action Plan on Trade and
Transport Facilitation (2003) reduced the total cost of the logistical chain by 20% in the main corridor
(Toamasina-Antananarivo).
At the port of Toamasina, which handles more than 70% of international traffic, measures taken to improve
efficiency included: (i) the setting-up of a one-stop shop for Customs, Port Authority, Police, and
Gendarmerie; (ii) the simplification of customs procedures as a result of the utilization of SYDONIA++
software; (iii) utilization of a mobile scanner; and (iv) the improvement of the productivity of port handling
operations. As a result, the average transit time and customs operation at this port reduced significantly
with a container now clearing the port in half a day, compared to more than a week in 2000.

(c) Improved accessibility from remote areas of the country to the main production and consumption
centers.
The road improvements carried out under the project (512km of national roads, including RN 6, RN 34,
RN43, and RN 44/3a) reduced travel time and cost and opened these areas to commercial exchanges with
the rest of the country. A particularly good example is the rehabilitation of the RN43 which had been
completely impassable during the rainy season. The improvements, and parallel activities by the World
Bank's Rural Development Project and Community Development Fund, revitalized this region which has
significant agricultural potential. Agricultural output increased, the secondary school and the hospital were
rehabilitated. The road is now passable all-year, rain barriers are in operation during the rainy season.
The rehabilitation works at the ports of Mahajanga and Toliara allowed the improvement of commercial
exchanges between the regional economic poles and the surrounding areas, especially in the regions of
Diana, Boeny, Melaky, and South West. These regions lack reliable road access and coastal shipping is of


                                                       - 7 -

particular importance to deliver merchandise and export agricultural production. According to APMF,
between 2000 and 2003, the traffic of dhows increased from 3,840 tons to 5,610 tons in the port of Toliara,
and from 3,760 tons to 6,715 tons in the port of Mahajanga.

(d) Increase in the percentage of national road infrastructure in good condition.
The government undertook an ambitious road rehabilitation and maintenance program with the Donor
community, including IDA and the European Union. Based on contracts signed and works carried out, the
percentage of paved national roads in good or fair conditions has certainly increased. Unfortunately the
lack of a reliable monitoring system makes it difficult to know the exact length of rehabilitated and
maintained roads. Information obtained from the ministry varies depending on the unit that issues the
information.

The other main impact was the emergence of national and local contractors (especially for routine
maintenance of unpaved roads) for public works. As a result, the number of jobs created by road works in
2003 and 2004 increased (Ref. Table 1), especially for the rehabilitation / periodic maintenance of paved
roads, as registered by the ministry (data for earlier years were not available).

(e) Recommendations of environmental impact assessments systematically taken into account by MOTM
and MOPW.
Awareness of environmental safeguards has only slowly increased in the ministry. Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIA) are carried out systematically for donor-funded projects but the monitoring of the
environmental management plan is often cursory. It is expected that the technical assistance that will be
provided to CGGTX and the recruitment of a safeguards specialist into that unit will have a positive
impact.

(f) Social mitigation plans for workers displaced by restructuring and privatization are approved and
implemented.
In 2000, the MOPW and the ministry of agriculture were selected as pilot projects to carry out the civil
service reform program. The Project financed the elaboration of the social mitigation plan for the MOPW
and MOTM, but implementation only started at the time of ICR. The Ministry of Agriculture which was
less affected by cabinet changes since 2002 has already implemented its mitigation plan.
Following the concessioning of the northern rail network, a mitigation plan was negotiated with unions and
staff representatives and was implemented in 2002-2003. This plan was based on the government's
cross-sector social mitigation plan which applies to all privatized companies. The estimated cost was US$
5 million and it was financed by the World Bank's Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 3716). The
plan benefited some 1,000 employees, who received financial compensation packages, training and various
assistance for professional reconversion.


4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Regulatory Reform and Private Sector Development. This component is rated satisfactory overall.
The regulatory framework created or prepared during the project preparation was strengthened, and the
domestic private sector grew during the project implementation.

(i) Regulatory Framework for Civil Aviation.
The project helped in: (i) developing and implementing a new legal and regulatory framework-- technical
assistance was provided to revise the earlier texts; (ii) building capacity, by financing a training program to
allow ACM and ENEAM (Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement de l'Aéronautique et de la
Météorologie)      staff to acquire up-to-date technical and regulatory knowledge; (iii) financing the



                                                      - 8 -

installation of a computerized system for real-time control of passenger flows at the country's international
airports. The system is not yet fully operational due essentially to a lack of coordination and leadership
among the various administrations involved.          There is also a shortfall of adequate funding             for
complementary investments, especially in the telecommunication's network; (iv) financing the setting-up of
a management information system to enable ACM to fulfill specific tasks (management of over-flight
authorizations; classification and follow up of legal and regulatory texts; air traffic control; statistics; etc.).
The equipment was provided and the staff trained.
Limited progress has been made to devolve air transport companies to the private sector. Even so Air
Madagascar was one of the first public enterprises selected for privatization, this transaction did not go
ahead as planned. The airline was virtually bankrupt in 2002 and required a US$10 million cash injection
from government which was supported by IDA's Emergency Recovery Credit (Cr. 3716). IDA's assistance
was warranted by government's decision to engage Concessionaire to take over the management of the
airline. Under the new management airline performance has significantly improved. The Concessionaire's
management contract will expire in May 2006 and the MPWT will elaborate a new calendar and concrete
proposals for the national airline's privatization by the first semester of 2006.

(ii) Port Subsector Reform.
Along the lines of the civil aviation reform, and as part of its regulatory reform process, the Government
decided to spin-off its shipping and ports regulatory functions: the framework law related to the port sector
was adopted in 2004, and the autonomous shipping and ports regulatory agency, (APMF, Agence
Portuaire, Maritime, et Fluviale), has been fully operational since 2005, after the definition of agency
functions and recruitment of staff. A salient feature of APMF's governance structure, worth underscoring,
is its Board comprised at parity of public and private sector representatives, without a deciding vote for its
Chairman, which makes compromise a necessity in strategic decisions, and greatly reduces the opportunity
for political interference.
Government has also concessioned the container terminal of the main commercial port. IFC assisted the
government as transaction advisor and the process moved in a transparent and timely manner. The
secondary ports have been advertised for framework concessions.

(iii)Commercialization/ Liquidation of MOPW's Construction Units.
At the beginning of the Project, technical assistance was provided to assist MOPW in identifying the
activities and functions capable of being spun-off, and an inventory of the ministry's equipment was made.
At the time of the ICR no formal liquidation process had been undertaken. It is understood that much of
the equipment might have been sold informally or is beyond use. Some of the remaining equipment is used
in emergency operations. It is an unfortunate development that no formal divestiture took place because
other countries used the auctioning of the equipment pool as an opportunity to equip small-scale
companies.
Regarding the ancillary services, the monopoly of the National Laboratory (LNTPB, Laboratoire National
des Travaux Publics et Bâtiments) was abolished in 2003, and four private laboratories have been set-up.
These laboratories are currently operating without a license because licenses are issued by LNTPB which
refuses to do so.
No significant change has occurred concerning the ININFRA (Institut National de l'Infrastructure), a
para-statal organization in charge of training staff from the administration and the private sector. . A study
recommending its transformation into a private association was neither validated nor implemented by the
ministry

(iv) Domestic road transport industry.
A strategy and a training program for the domestic road freight and passenger services was elaborated in
2003, aiming inter alia at enhancing the entrepreneurial and managerial capacity of small transport


                                                      - 9 -

operators and increasing their safety and environmental awareness. A training course for the safe transport
of oil was given for drivers of tank trucks. Training had been scheduled for minibus drivers and fee
collectors, but due to delays this training will now be carried out under APL3.

(v) Domestic construction industry.
Despite the fact that the effective development of the local construction industry to undertake maintenance
works was highlighted as a key priority, few actions have been taken. Local small contractors remain
under-developed although there is a potential market for them. Government's rural roads program, financed
under APL2, would have been an ideal opportunity to promote this sector because the contracts were of
relatively little interest to large contractors. In preparation of APL2, the project also financed some labor
based contractor training, and the Norwegian financed the creation and first operation of a labor based
training institute. A strategy for the development of SMEs was developed, and the creation of associations
of SMEs at national and provincial levels was recommended. Despite good intentions, the SMEs suffered a
great deal in 2004 and 2005 as the government was late in honoring payments to the companies and failed
to make VAT payments.
However, on an individual basis, some small contractors benefited from training financed by the European
Union and APL1 under an initiative called "Support and training for road maintenance". The continuation
of this training program will be financed under APL3.

(vi) Trade and transport facilitation.
An audit of facilitation based on the methodology established by the Bank and its partners under the Global
Facilitation Partnership for Transportation and Trade was carried out in 2002, in order to help remove key
constraints in transport flows for Madagascar's international trade. The study achieved its objective by
establishing a comprehensive list of obstacles of administrative, regulatory and procedural nature. It was
followed by a national workshop to validate and finalize its conclusions. Various facilitation actions were
implemented as a result of this audit, especially at the main port of Toamasina. A multisector action plan
was developed, in order to improve the coordination of all the public and private stakeholders participating
in the process of importing and exporting goods. The process helped the MPWT reassert its role as the lead
player in the national trade and transport facilitation agenda.
The    public private partnership platform (CAPE, Comité            d'Appui au Pilotage de la Réforme de
l'Entreprise ), was designated to monitor the impacts of the action plan, especially regarding the reduction
of transport and logistics costs on the main corridor between Toamasina / Antananarivo / Antsirabe.



B. Organizational Restructuring and Sector Policy. This component is rated moderately satisfactory
overall.

(i) Restructuring of the MOTM.(now MPWT)
The ministry has successfully completed the reform of the civil aviation and port, maritime and river
sub-sectors. Government has disengaged from the railway operations of the northern line, which was
concessioned and is completing a transaction for the southern network. In parallel, the ministry is setting
up a railway technical unit to monitor the concession. This unit will be transferred to the Land Transport
Agency (ATT) once this organization is operational. The center piece of the restructuring is, however, the
creation of the Roads Authority. The concept of the authority has evolved from the original concept
proposed by APL1 which had envisioned the creation of six provincial and one central delegated contract
management agencies which would carry out the road program of the ministry. Such set-up is untested,
cumbersome and would require too much of scarce human resources, and the new government decided in
2003 to reorient to reform towards a single autonomous Roads Authority based on the good experience
with such authorities in many other countries. Vested interests in the ministry might contribute to the delays


                                                       - 10 -

experienced. In the interim, the ministry has decided to strengthen the Large Works Unit (CGGTX) which
has been successfully implementing the EU's road program. It is expected that the strengthened CGGTX
will be the technical core of the Roads Authority. With regard to the programming of road maintenance, a
central unit was set-up within the ministry in 2003, which coordinates the action of the provincial
departments for public works (DPTP, Direction Provinciale des Travaux Publics).

(ii) Preparation of social mitigation program.
This activity is still ongoing and will be carried over to APL3. The background study, including a staff
inventory and skills description as well as modules for their reinsertion into the labor market or conversion
to other activities, is available. Government has just authorized the implementation of the social mitigation
plan.

(iii) Capacity building through Program Executive Secretariat.
The project implementation unit (SE-PST, Secrétariat Exécutif du PST) was created as the focal point to
coordinate the reform and capacity building efforts in both ministries: high-quality individual consultants
were recruited at the beginning of the program. However, after the political turmoil in 2002, the SE-PST
encountered problems of leadership, causing various instabilities at the highest and middle-level
management, and deterioration in the quality of the program's performance. The SE-PST was closed by
government on June 30, 2005.          Fiduciary management has been delegated to an independent audit
company. Technical contract management has been transferred to the autonomous agencies and to the
CGGTX.

(iv) Road Ttransport Policy.
A comprehensive Road Transport Policy was elaborated in 2003, with a very participatory approach,
including representatives from various sectors of the Administration, transport operators, and users
associations. A Master Plan was also developed and included various programs related to: (i) the
improvement of the institutional and legal framework of road transport, (ii) the development of terminal and
multimodal infrastructures, (iii) the improvement of road safety, (iv) the management of road transport
environmental impacts, (v) the rationalization of freight transportation between railways and roads, and (vi)
the improvement of the system of cost recovery for road maintenance fees, based on a more equitable
contribution from various categories of road users.

C. Environmental Protection. This component is rated unsatisfactory overall.

(i) Monitoring of sector environmental performance.
The Office of the Vice Prime Minister, in which were merged the two previous Ministry of Transport and
Ministry of Public Works in 2003, and which was also responsible for regional planning and economic
programs, cancelled the contract for technical assistance which was supposed to develop a strategy and
tools for the environmental management to be carried out by the Safeguards Department of the ministry.
This department had no environmental specialists and was thus not in a position to engage with the
technical assistant. The new ministry recently restructured this department and implemented some of the
recommendations proposed by the technical assistant, including a program of capacity strengthening and a
toolkit for environmental assessment. There continues to be a need for safeguards expertise and it was
decided to re-launch technical assistance under APL3 and to recruit a local safeguards specialist for
CGGTX.

(ii) Natural catastrophe prevention and mitigation.
The study on the prevention and minimization of natural catastrophes was carried out under the supervision
of the Department of the Meteorology. An updated database on natural catastrophes with alert systems


                                                    - 11 -

adapted to local situation, a definition of risky zones, with proposed standards of restructuration and
institutional capacity reinforcement recommendation, is now available. The sustainability and ownership of
the study's recommendations are ensured through their implementation by the Department of the
Meteorology, which will be financed under APL3.

(iii) Emergency works and studies for coastal protection.
Proposals for construction works and coastal protection activities, taking into consideration appropriate
environmental measures in Morondava and Toamasina were developed. Bidding documents are prepared
for both cities; protection works in Toamasina were supposed to be financed under APL3 but have been
reprogrammed to a future project. Protective works for Morondava are being considered for funding by the
French Development Agency.

(iv) Ratification of the MARPOL and OPRC Conventions.
MARPOL and OPRC conventions have been ratified. The necessary steps for training and equipment
acquisitions were defined, for conforming the main Malagasy ports to the requirement of these international
conventions. Bidding documents were completed, after an amendment to the initial contract. Capacity
strengthening and equipments will be partly financed under APL3.

(v) Shipwrecks removal.
This activity was cancelled because the lowest financial offer received was three times higher than the
estimate. Simultaneously, the possibility to have a new deepwater port built on the Ehoala peninsula within
the mining development project under consideration with Rio Tinto provided a new perspective on the
economic benefits of removing the wreck from the existing port. Should the new port go ahead, as appears
now likely, the Wellborn wreck will become much less of a hindrance for maritime activities. The only
remaining issue is the long-term effects of the manganese still in its hull, effects which have so far been
considered harmless.      However, to be on the safe side, the government is still seeking donors and
partnership with neighbourhood countries to conduct the removal program in order to optimize the costs of
the operation.

(vi) Emergency bridges.
In order to mitigate the impacts of cyclones and floods on transport infrastructures during rainy seasons,
the project financed the acquisition of eleven new emergency metal bridges. These bridges were added to
the government's emergency stock, and were deployed in the most vulnerable regions, under the supervision
of DPTPs.

D. Improvement of Economic Infrastructure. This component is rated satisfactory overall.

(i) Ports and Rivers.
Ports rehabilitation in Mahajanga and Toliara. Rehabilitation works at the two ports were done
satisfactorily.

In Toliara, the works identified during the project appraisal had to be substantially increased in order to
respond to the significant traffic increase at project effectiveness. The changes took in consideration the
needs expressed by the port users, and the revised traffic forecasts; thus, in addition to the initial
rehabilitation works, the construction of an additional berth was also inserted into the project. As expected,
the economic evaluation carried out for the ICR showed that such revision was justified, with an internal
rate of return close to the one determined at the project appraisal (details are provided below, in paragraph
4.3, and in Annex 3).




                                                    - 12 -

In Mahajanga, works were completed in accordance with the initial project, and provided satisfaction to
the users. The traffic increase during the work period was higher than expected, leading to a higher internal
rate of return after the operation (see paragraph 4.3). As a result of higher traffic, needs for extension and
additional capacity were identified and additional works have been included under APL3.

Rivers of Tsiribihina and Sofia. Construction of berthing pontoons and storage facilities on both rivers
were completed, despite some delays in the works launching, due to procurement problems and delays in
the execution, as a consequence of the difficult access to the sites. Regarding the monitoring of the usage of
the built infrastructure, as pilot projects, APMF signed an agreement with local authorities and communes
to collect statistical data required for the evaluation of the economic efficiency of such infrastructure.

(ii) National Roads.

The objective of carrying out the periodic maintenance of about 530 Km of paved national roads of key
importance was reached. As scheduled, works on RN 6, RN 34 and RN 44/3a were completed, but their
costs almost doubled (from a total estimation of US$ 7.2 million to an actual cost of US$ 15.8 million),
due to additional works following cyclones damages. As mentioned earlier, due to delays of the contractor
in executing the works on RN25, the contract was cancelled, and additional works were inserted, leading to
the shift of the financing of the new contract under APL2. IDA was able to respond to an urgent request by
government and included rehabilitation of the RN43 (see detailed description above). To ensure competitive
prices this contract was let as an addendum to the contract of RN6.

Airport infrastructure improvement
Following air transport liberalization, government and the World Bank agreed to include financing for
selected airport works in the project (see DCA amendment of January 15, 2005).
The project financed civil works at the international airport of Ivato, Antananarivo, which consisted in
rehabilitation of the arrival and departure areas and office space, as well as acquisition of luggage handling
equipment and security control. These investments improved passengers flows and luggage handling and
were justified by increased traffic volume.
The project also financed civil works at the international airport of Nosy Be, the country's prime tourist
destination. The works concerned the reinforcement of the runway to allow taking off and landing of
aircrafts of the size of a B767, for direct flights between Europe and Nosy Be, and the construction of a
security fence and patrol road around the airport grounds.

(iii) Feasibility studies.
The study for the development of marinas was carried out but the result was not very satisfactory. It is
likely that the study results will not be used and indeed there has been no follow-up. Of particular interest
would be the development of marinas in Nosy Be, Mahajanga and Antsiranana which are important tourist
destinations and already attract cruise ships.

The project financed a number of other studies related to the preparation of the follow-on phases: (i) the
study on the rehabilitation of maritime signals; the corresponding works are financed under APL3; (ii) the
study on the rehabilitation of Toamasina port; (iii) the study on the priority rural network to be financed
under APL2. The study for the compliance with the MARPOL convention and the audit for the facilitation
of transport and international trade were also done.

(iv) Supervision of the civil works.
The project financed consultant services for the supervision of the civil works under the project. No major
problems were encountered.


                                                       - 13 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
National Road Periodic Maintenance Works.
The re-evaluation of the cost-benefit analysis of the periodic maintenance of paved national roads was
carried out using the same model that was used for the economic analysis for the road projects to be
financed under APL3. Two scenarios were considered, especially since the original analysis is not
available: the first one takes into consideration the value of time, and the second one doesn't. However, it is
estimated that the scenario taking into consideration the time value is the most accurate one, since most of
the traffic on all these roads is passenger traffic.
NPV was calculated using a 12% discount rate. The analysis revealed that the EIRRs are different to those
set forth in the PAD, as summarized in the table below:

Table 2. Results of economic analysis
National Road (RN)                         PAD        economic Ex-post economic evaluation
                                           evaluation
                                                                 with time value without time value
                                                                 consideration



RN 6          NPV (US$, million)                                       0.026               -0.85


              EIRR                                18.60%              12.12%              7.83%
RN 34         NPV (US$, million)                                       4.49                 3.11


              EIRR                                19.50%              27.22%              22.39%
RN 3A-44 NPV (US$, million)                                            0.58                -0.73


              EIRR                                25.60%              14.77%              8.41%



For the RN6 and 3A-44, the ex-post EIRRs are lower than those of the PAD. On these roads, the traffic did
not increase as much as expected, due to delays in the reconstruction on the main roads linked to the
portion of roads financed by the project (the southern section of the RN6 is being financed by other donors,
and RN 44, financed by the Bank under APL3, was still facing problems at the time of the ICR). However,
in both sections, the main quantifiable benefits of the project include: (i) a reduction in travel time, with an
average vehicle speed of 50km/hour before improvements and 60km/hour after the upgrading; (ii) a traffic
generation, with a traffic increase rate of 3% per year without the investment, and 5% with the investment;
and, (iii) reduction in vehicles operating costs. The same benefits were observed for RN 34, on which the
costs of works were actually lower than expected.



Port improvement.

The economic analysis in the PAD was based, for the ports, on (i) decreased handling costs, in particular
on containers, and (ii) decline in ship time in ports, leading to savings in the costs of call and overall



                                                      - 14 -

decrease on the cargo port transit costs.     Additional benefits, but not quantified, were to be found in the
additional increase in traffic (fish and seafood) made possible by the port improvements. The Economic
Costs and Benefits analysis provided in Annex 3 is in fact essentially a financial rate of return estimate,
consolidating costs and revenues flows for both the APMF, as operating agency, and the State, as investor.
We can actually assume that the financial flows--designed to capture part of these benefits so that the
operational model, based on self-supporting finances, works--somewhat under-estimates the real value of
the total economic benefits generated by the investments. It is a fairly safe assumption for the ports, since
the traffic growth, which has already gone beyond appraisal forecasts, is a testimony that (i) the
investments did improve accessibility and (ii) the tariffs are not a deterrent for private operators and
shippers.
For the Mahajanga Port rehabilitation and upgrading, an EIRR of 29.8 % with a NPV of US$ 4.5 million
was estimated in the PAD. The economic re-evaluation shows an actual EIRR of 37 % with a NPV of US$
6.25 million at a 12 % discount rate.
As for the Toliara Port, the EIRR of the after rehabilitation and extension works is 22 %, with a NPV of
US$ 5.3 million at a 12 % discount rate. An EIRR of 27.5 % with a NPV of US$ 3.6 million were
estimated in the PAD.
The investments achieved higher return than opportunity cost (12%), due to a substantial increase in traffic.
These figures support the robust economic justification of the project.



River transport program.

For the rivers, the economic analysis was based on the stimulus effects of the works on agriculture
production, following increased access to markets and falling transport costs.

At this stage we are still waiting, as is APMF, to get the first statistical reports, compiled by the local
collectivities, on usage and actual costs of using the facilities. So the financial exercise, as presented in
Annex 3, is rather theoretical for the rivers, and since this component was designed as a pilot, it is
suggested to leave open the benefits assessment issue until the time when actual effects can be reported,
which will also make it possible to decide whether to extend the pilot to other rivers.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated in the PAD, but a financial analysis was carried out as part of
the ICR to assess viability of the investments through cost recovery from specific user fees.

For the port sub-sector, a user charge averaging about US$3 per ton of cargo was estimated to be
sufficient to recover the proposed investment. At the time of ICR, the average rate is estimated at US$4 per
ton.   APMF collects the user charge (RFM, Redevances de Flux Maritimes), which constitute the
quasi-totality of its resources, according to the following schedule:
- Containerised cargo: US$25 for a 20-foot container; US$50 for a 40-foot container;
- Conventional cargo, except vehicles: US$1.25 per ton or m3;
- Oil: $1.25 per ton or m3;
- Private vehicles: US$40 per vehicle; and
- Commercial vehicles: US$5 per vehicle;
The fees were set by government, after consultation with the private sector, based on the structure of the
goods imported to Madagascar. Based on those rates and traffic, the estimated annual budget of APMF is
US$3 million. In 2005, 53% of APMF's total expenses were used for investments and 47% for operating
expenses. In order to secure its financial viability, APMF should be more proactive in collecting fees, and
should not accept any delayed payments.



                                                      - 15 -

In the road sub-sector, the main source of the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF or FER) is the road users'
levy (RUR): from 2003 to 2005, it represented about 75% of its total resources (further details on the
RMF's budget are given in Annex 8). This levy is a fixed amount and added to the price at the pump. The
current rates are: MGA54/liter (about US cents 2.7) for diesel, MGA84 (about US cents 4.2) for fuel and
MGA142 (about US cents 7.1) for unleaded fuel. International practice suggests that an amount of around
US cents 10 per litre is needed to achieve a sustainable level of road maintenance. Furthermore the levy
should be expressed as a percentage of fuel prices in order to take into consideration the cost fluctuations
(inflation, international oil price, valuation of the national currency). The road maintenance tax (VER,
Vignette d'Entretien Routier) for heavy vehicles was also supposed to be transferred to the RMF. In 2002
a decree was passed that fixed an annual tax of MGA5, 000 (about US$2.5) per ton for trucks weighing
more than 3.5tons. The Ministry of Finance collects this tax but it is not passed on to the RMF. A study
was done in 2004 to propose a strategy for a new road tax system. This study used the RUC 30 Model of
the World Bank (Road User Charges, version 3.00) and recommended the application of a differentiated
rate to achieve a more equitable contribution by various users' categories: MGA 7.500 (US$3.7) per ton,
for heavy vehicles superior to 16 tons, and MGA10,000 (US$10) per ton, for trailers above 35tons. The
Government approved the strategy but it has not yet modified the decree. Finally, the RMF receives a part
of the oil taxes (TPP, Taxes sur les Produits Pétroliers) and until last year proceeds from HIPC: the levels
of both the TPP and HIPC allocations are decided by government without any transparent criteria and thus,
without any predictability.

The main concern is that the resources of the RMF will not be sufficient to cover routine, let alone periodic
maintenance, unless government takes corrective action and increases the road user levy. Currently the
RMF is funding routine maintenance of the still limited national road network that is being maintained, and
contributes to urgent works. Some funding is also made available for periodic maintenance of national
roads. The RMF's participation in the maintenance of provincial and municipal roads is very limited and
the fund is not even able to respond to all requests for which local government has been able to raise the
required co-financing. The MTPW continues to finance and manage the bulk of periodic road maintenance
through the National Road Maintenance Program (PNER, Programme National d'Entretien Routier, and
PNEOA, Programme National des Ouvrages d'Art). In 2005, a budget of MGA3.3 billion (about
US$1.65 million) was allocated to road and bridges maintenance, and for 2006, an amount of MGA8.7
billion (about US$4.3 million), which represents 2.6 times the amount of 2005, is budgeted: this last
amount would represent about 25% of the RMF's resources in 2005. There is concern that these
programs constitute a non-transparent and discretionary fund. The budget increase close to an election year
only confirms the preoccupation.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact is substantial, based on the following facts:
(i)      the definitive disengagement of Government from force account work, with equipment informally
sold or beyond use;
(ii)     the establishment of independent regulatory bodies, the Civil Aviation Authority (ACM) and the
Ports, Maritime, and River Agency (APMF), both agencies are fully operational;
(iii)    the finalization of the legal framework for the Land Transport Agency (ATT) which is ready for
immediate set-up;
(iv)     the final review of the legal framework for Roads Authority; and,
(v)      the implementation of the social mitigation plan for staff of the ministry affected by the
restructuring of the institution.
The far-reaching changes achieved in the policy and regulatory framework, are significant, both because of
the nature of the changes and in terms of the long-term sustainability brought about by them. The transition



                                                    - 16 -

to a legally endorsed institutional framework for continued operation was accomplished, although over a
somewhat longer time frame than what was originally envisaged.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factor that affected project implementation was the political crisis over the outcome of the
presidential elections in December 2001, which lasted until July 2002, and the ensuing economic crisis. The
country came to a virtual standstill during that time and all construction activity was discontinued.
Cyclones also affect the roads to be rehabilitated under APL1, causing an increase in the quantity of works
to be fulfilled. These events created delays, as many construction activities were put on hold; besides,
extra-costs were incurred for additional works to rehabilitate the cyclone damaged works in-progress, and
for compensations to contractors for the immobilization of their staff and equipments at the sites.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The political change in 2002 let to a series of institutional adjustments as the new government tried to find
the best configuration for this important sector. Prior to 2002 two ministries existed: Ministry of Public
Works and Ministry of Transport. The new government initially continued with this set-up and appointed
two new ministers. In March 2003 the ministries were merged into the Office of the Vice Prime Minister,
which was also responsible for regional planning and economic programs. In March 2005 the government
made another adjustment by unbundling the VPM and creating the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
and Ministry of Decentralization and Regional Planning. Each cabinet shuffle brought with it a new
management team in the ministry and caused a period of upheaval. There were also frequent changes at the
leadership of the executive secretary of the SE-PST, in total there were ten project managers. Despite these
changes, government maintained the overall orientation of sector policy and continued to implement the
reform agenda. Delays were inevitable.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During the first two years the SE-PST appeared to have been able to operate within the autonomy that was
granted to it by a decree. The unit was adequately staffed and recruitments had been done on a competitive
basis. Staff monitored project implementation satisfactorily and there were no complaints regarding
procurement or disbursements.        The SE-PST adapted to the context and lack of cooperation by
internalizing work that was supposed to have been carried out by the ministry. The work load and scope
increased substantially with APL2 and APL3, and also due to the delay of the reform in the road sector.
Late 2002 was probably the start of the unit's problems that eventually led to its closing in June 2005. The
autonomy of the unit was gradually eroded and the managers appeared to have been increasingly under the
control and influence of the ministry. The succession of unit managers prevented an orderly hand-over.
Internal controls were not enforced and irregularities in procurement and financial management were not
sanctioned. These problems affected APL1 to a lesser extent. SE-PST was unable to promote ownership of
the studies financed by the project and many consultant reports were never reviewed or utilized by the
ministry.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$ 66.0 million equivalent, to be financed by IDA. At
project closing, the rate of disbursement was 98.8%. A very slow disbursement pace was observed just
after the 2002 crisis, and considerable efforts were made to make up for the delay. A grace period of four
additional months was granted to allow for outstanding payments.

In December 2003 and again in January 2005, formal reallocations were done to increase the allocation to
the works category, eventually adjusting it from the initial SDR 17,130,000 to SDR 25,040,000. This



                                                      - 17 -

reallocation was justified by the additional works of the Ivato and Nosy Be airports and significant cost
increases for the ports, river, and road works.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is likely.
Government has completely disengaged from civil works and operational activities. All public works are
now contracted out to the private sector. Government has also withdrawn from the provision of transport
services and has either concessioned operations (for the northern rail network) or signed management
contracts (for Air Madagascar and for the forthcoming southern rail network). Bus passenger transport
and freight transport are entirely in the hands of private operators.
Government has set-up autonomous regulatory agencies for civil aviation (ACM) and for the port,
maritime, and river sub-sector (APMF). These agencies are fully operational, their boards are composed of
private and public sector representatives and they have started raising revenues through user fees.
The Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) has been restructured into a second-generation fund. Technical
assistance has been deployed to improve its administrative and financial management capacity. Further
efforts are needed to increase the RMF's revenue base and ensure that it can effectively cover all
maintenance needs (see paragraph 4.4). Fund flows also need to be streamlined to avoid delays currently
caused by the Treasury Department. The autonomy of the Fund's board needs to be increased to better
equip it to resist diversion of money for non-road expenditures.
Restructuring of the ministry is far advanced and implementation of the staff retrenchment plan has started.
Progress towards setting-up the Land Transport Agency (ATT) is tangible and it should become
operational during the first semester of 2006. The key to a definite restructuring of the Ministry lies with
the Roads Authority (RA) and here progress has been the slowest. It is conceivable that the creation of the
RA touches upon the strongest vested interests in the ministry and that resistance is therefore strongest in
this area. The donors are putting a joint effort into the RA's creation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Until the RA is created, the CGGTX is the pivotal unit in the ministry to ensure quality implementation of
the roads program. CGGTX needs to be further strengthened through the provision of sufficient material,
human, and financial resources so that it may carry out its current role and also be the technical foundation
of the RA.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank during project preparation is rated satisfactory. This rating is justified by: (i)
the staff mix and continuity during preparation (economists, engineers, financial analysts, environmental
specialist); (ii) the team capitalized on IDA's long experience in the transport sector in Madagascar which
started in 1966 and on extensive sector policy dialogue; and (iii) participatory approaches during the
preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank during project supervision is rated satisfactory. This rating is justified by: (i)
the adequate number of supervision missions; (ii) the adequate skills mix; (iii) issues raised in due time and
concerted remedies with the administration; (iv) implementation assistance from the Madagascar Country
Office through transport and fiduciary teams. In 2002 the Government and the team decided to restructure
the APL approach to better respond to the priorities of the new Government. This resulted in bringing



                                                     - 18 -

forward the rural transport project, which was initially the fourth phase of the program, and consolidating
the program into three phases. The team was also able to accommodate changing sector priorities, such as
the rehabilitation of the RN43 and the airport of Nosy Be. The team kept a continuous focus on the whole
program by monitoring the triggers for subsequent APLs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The reinforcement of the Bank's transport unit through
the resource mobilization of two transport specialists based in the country facilitated the daily follow-up of
the project operation and the cooperation with the government. This allowed pro-active approach and rapid
reactions when needed, despite the frequent changes of interlocutors within the administration: in this
context, the Bank staff ensured the continuity of the project follow up.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. The two ministries took the
leadership of the project preparation through the elaboration of the transport sector policy and strategy.
This was achieved by creating an inter-ministerial working group, including representatives from the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Trade and Industry, and the Ministry of Tourism, which elaborated the
Transport Master Plan. The document served as the basis of negotiation with the donor community.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation is rated satisfactory but qualifications need to be made.
The Borrower complied with the different covenants of the DCA and set up the SE-PST. This unit showed
a strong performance until early 2003 but became steadily weaker thereafter. It was only in June 2005 that
Government took decisive action and closed the unit. The Ministry also failed to put in place an effective
environmental and social assessment unit, as well as a reliable monitoring and evaluation system. Many
outcome indicators lack baselines and current data. Especially, the government decision to simplify
procurement procedure for the SE-PST after the crisis was key in facilitating the operation of the program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated unsatisfactory.
The SE-PST had been created as a coordination unit while implementing responsibility was assigned to the
Ministry of Public Works and Ministry of Transport. Early on, however, the SE-PST became involved in
project implementation and gradually increased its staff to respond to a growing work load. Reporting lines
became blurred, particularly the procurement unit which lacked a clear hierarchical structure. Starting in
early 2003 key positions for technical assistance remained vacant, for example principal advisor to the
SE-PST manager. Interference from the ministry increased. Serious shortcomings became apparent in
mid-2003: deterioration in the project internal control system, procurement issues and delays in the
payment of contractors and suppliers due to: i) lack of cash forecasting; ii) irregular submission of
acceptable withdrawal applications to the Bank; iii) delays in validation of invoices and lack of monitoring
of accounts payable and; iv) lack of counterpart funds. These shortcomings impacted negatively on project
implementation and in December 2005 the Government commissioned an organizational audit (January
2005) which was followed in June 2005 by an Independent Procurement Review. In light of the findings of
these audits, Government took decisive action and closed the SE-PST on June 30, 2005. Fiduciary
management was then transferred to an international audit company.
All annual financial audits were unqualified but the auditors raised some deficiencies in their management
letters. The findings of the last financial audit were questioned by the IPR (Independent Procurement
Review) and Government has asked the financial auditors to complete their analysis.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                                      - 19 -

The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Borrower demonstrated a strong commitment
to achieve the project objective.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be drawn from this project:

1. Project Development Objectives need to be aligned with project content. The two PDOs reported in
the log-frame: (i) reduce transport cost and sustainably improve accessibility, especially in rural areas and
(ii) environmental and social protection are not in line with the PDO in the core text of the PAD and do not
appear to capture well the project's objective which was to help strengthen transport sector policy and
management and rehabilitate national-level road and port infrastructure.

2. An effective monitoring and evaluation system should be priority of the Borrower and the Bank. The
project and program suffer from the absence of an effective M&E system. Such a system should receive the
same attention as fiduciary safeguards, especially when triggers need to be assessed to allow the start of a
new APL phase.

3. Borrower's effective commitment is essential to achieve sector reforms. APL1 had a strong reform
agenda and its implementation was delayed by three ministerial changes. Even so Government remained
committed to the restructuring of the ministry and the setting-up of the Road Authority. Each cabinet
shuffle led to a change in the key decision makers and thus a discontinuity in the reform progress.

4. Borrower's ownership of policy is necessary to ensure operations efficiency and sustainability.
Government needs to ensure continuity of sector policies even when there are changes in personnel. Good
initiatives need to be sustained after a ministerial change and not discredited because they were conceived
by the previous team. An example of this is the ministry's overall monitoring system that was discontinued
with the arrival of a new team.

5. Clear criteria of staff performance and qualification should lead to decision on their selection and
replacement, for a result-driven action. During project implementation, the rapid turnover of high-level
staff and non-transparent recruitment impacted negatively on performance.

6. Bank's decentralization policy facilitates continuous dialogue and closer follow-up of the project's
implementation. Presence of the Bank's team in the country office enabled close follow-up and daily
interaction with the ministry. This was particularly important during the last year of project
implementation when governance issues took the forefront.

7. Borrower's commitment to more transparency improves sector's governance. Decisions criteria (such
as for the determination of HIPC funds, government's contribution, and user charges allocated to the road
maintenance), transfers of funds and equipment from the central government to decentralized or external
units (e.g., for the cession of the equipments of the MOPW to domestic construction SMEs; VER ­
Vignettes d'Entretien Routier ­ Maintenance Road Fees to be paid by trucks - from the Ministry of
Finance to the FER) should be clarified and applied.

8. Implementation arrangements need to be adjusted as necessary. The SE-PST was set-up on the
premise that implementation responsibility would be with the ministries and that there would be full
cooperation between the different parties. When it became apparent that this arrangement was
dysfunctional, explicit corrective action should have been taken and the SE-PST should have been



                                                      - 20 -

transformed from a coordination to an implementation unit. Given the amount of funding managed by this
entity, there should have had proper internal control functions and very clear rules of engagement with the
ministry. Ad-hoc independent procurement reviews might have identified governance problems when they
started to emerge.

9. The Bank should be more realistic when expecting results, especially for such projects requiring
thorough institutional changes and vulnerable to staff rotation and change of decision makers.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's comments are inserted in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information

N.A.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Greater competition in international air
transport services                             6 scheduled international air carriers, up to Same as in the last ISR.
                                               12 weekly flights between Antananarivo and
                                               Paris, no seats limitation. Result: Reduction
                                               in fares.

Reduction of average transit cost and time in No target defined in PAD
main transit corridors                                                                       Average transit cost reduced by 20% in the
                                                                                             logistical chain between the port of
                                                                                             Toamasina and Antananarivo.

Proportion of the population with reliable     No target defined in PAD                      N/A
access to transportation
Increase of the percentage of the national
road network in good and fair condition        Paved national roads:                         Same as in the last ISR.
                                               Good 46%; Fair 26%; Poor 28%
                                               Unpaved national roads:
                                               Fair 15%; Poor 75%

Recommendations of environmental impact
assessments are systematically taken into      Environmental monitoring system not fully     Same as in the last ISR. Recruitment of the
account by MOTM and MOPW                       operational                                   technical assistance in progress.

Social mitigation plans for workers displaced
by restructuring and privatization are         Mitigation plan implemented for Railway       Same as in the last ISR.
approved and implemented.                      concessioning; Social plan for Ministry
                                               developed but not yet implemented




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate


1. Enactment of civil aviation regulations and Civil Aviation Code adopted by Parliament
implementation of management system.



2. Approval of the legislation creating the    Legislation adopted by Parliament
Ports and Shipping Regulatory Agency by
Congress.



3. Increased percentage of road contracts      N/A                                           N/A
awarded to small domestic contractors;
improvement in levels of service provided by
transport operators.



4. Action plan for implementation of the       Action plan developed but not implemented.    A one-stop shop for Customs, Port Authority,
recommendations of the facilitation audit.                                                   Police, and Gendarmerie set up.
                                                                                             Simplification of customs procedures as a
                                                                                             result of the utilization of SYDONIA++
                                                                                             software.



5. Increased percentage of maintenance         RMF budget: MGF 114bn in 2002; MGF            RMF budget for 2005: estimates: MGF
funding requirements raised through the        181bn in 2003; MGF 192bn in 2004              233bn; actual, as of end of September: MGF
Road Fund.                                                                                   145bn.




                                                                  - 22 -

6. Action plan for implementation of the road Road Authority (AR) and Land transport       Same as in the last ISR.
transport policy.                              Agency (ATT) to be operational by 2006;
                                               agreed action plan in the aide memoire.



7. Financing mechanism for recurrent           Adhoc allocation by RMF, no strategy in     Same as in the last ISR.
maintenance at subnational level, and an       place to promote resource mobilization at   In 2002, 18% of RMF's budget was allocated
allocative process which provides incentives subnational level                             to rural roads; in 2003: 20%; in 2004: 7%.
for the mobilization of local resources for
rural roads.



8. Preparation of an economically-prioritized  Program was developed under APL2
program for the rehabilitation of 1,500km of   preparation.
rural roads.



9. Ratification of the MARPOL and OPRC         Ratified by Parliament
Conventions



10. Action plan for implementation of strategy Done.
for natural catastrophe prevention and
mitigation.



11. Coastal protection works to arrest coastal Studies done: works in Toamasina to be      Same as in the last ISR.
erosion at Toamasina and Morondava.            financed under APL 3, not funding available
                                               for Morondava



12. Improvement of the Ports of Toliary and    All works completed.
Mahajanga; Rivers of Tsiribihina and Sofia;
periodic maintenance of 527km of national
roads.


1End of project




                                                                 - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Regulatory reform and private sector development           7.60            8.10           1.08
2. Organizational restructuring and sector policy            12.10          11.20            0.91
3. Environmental Protection                                  13.60            3.10           0.23
4. Improvement of Economic Infrastructure                    27.30          47.90             176

Total Baseline Cost                                          60.60          70.30
 Physical Contingencies                                       2.85
 Price Contingencies                                          2.55
                         Total Project Costs                 66.00          70.30
                  Total Financing Required                   66.00          70.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           29.50            0.00          0.00         0.00        29.50
                                  (27.70)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (27.70)
2. Goods                            6.00            0.10          0.30         0.00         6.40
                                   (6.00)           (0.10)      (0.30)         (0.00)      (6.40)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         25.20         0.00        25.20
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (25.20)        (0.00)     (25.20)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00          0.20         0.00         0.20
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)      (0.20)
5. Other                            0.00            0.00          4.70         0.00         4.70
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.00)         (0.00)      (4.00)
6. Refinancing of PPF               0.00            0.00                       0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                           35.50            0.10         30.40         0.00        66.00
                                  (33.70)           (0.10)      (29.70)        (0.00)     (63.50)




                                                 - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 38.00              1.30              0.10             0.00             39.40
                                           (35.00)            (1.30)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (36.40)
   2. Goods                                 6.30               0.80              0.40             0.00              7.50
                                           (5.90)             (0.70)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (7.00)
   3. Services                              12.60              4.40              4.70             0.00             21.70
                                           (11.50)            (4.00)            (4.40)            (0.00)           (19.90)
   4. Training                              0.70               0.30              0.20             0.00              1.20
                                           (0.60)             (0.20)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (1.00)
   5. Other                                 0.00               0.00              0.50             0.00              0.50
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (0.40)
   6. Refinancing of PPF                    0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                57.60              6.80              5.90             0.00             70.30
                                           (53.00)            (6.20)            (5.50)            (0.00)           (64.70)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Regulatory reform and        7.90         0.00                                                         0.0      0.0
private sector development
2. Organizational              12.60         0.00                                                         0.0      0.0
restructuring and sector
policy
3. Environmental               14.50         0.70                                                         0.0      0.0
Protection
4. Improvement of              28.50         1.80                                                         0.0      0.0
Economic Infrastructure
5. Refinancing of PPF           1.50         0.00                                                         0.0      0.0




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Roads Periodic maintenance:

The Borrower and the Bank performed an economic evaluation of the periodic maintenance works for the
national roads No. 6, 3A/44 and 34, using a methodology similar to that used at the time of appraisal. This
methodology was developed by the institutional support unit (CAI/ Cellule d'Appui Institutionnel) at
MPWT which benefited from technical and financial assistance from the European Commission and the
French Cooperation. The same methodology was used for the evaluation of road investments planned and
achieved under APL3.
The with-project and without-project scenarios were compared to determine the effect of introducing the
project. The assumptions in the appraisal report were modified on the basis of upgraded information.
Updated periodic and routine maintenance costs were derived from SE-PST data (re. substance and costs
of works), and by the CAI data (re. increase in traffics, vehicle operating costs, maintenance costs, time
costs, gains in terms of speed,...). It was assumed that in the without-project case, the road degradation
would be accelerated, and in the with-project case, the road degradation would be slower: in both cases,
regular annual routine maintenance is required. The re-evaluation assumed a 20-year life span, the
economic life assumed in the appraisal. The main quantifiable benefits of the project included: (i) savings in
road user costs for existing traffic due to a better road surface; (ii) gains in travel time; and (iii) lower
maintenance costs due to improvement in the maintainable condition of the road

The discount rate used is 12%, identical with the one used under the preparation of the project and it
reflects the opportunity cost of capital in Madagascar.
The estimated traffic growth was 3% in the without-project case, and 5% in the with-project case. The
table below shows current traffic composition:




The benefits from generated traffic were divided by two.
Last, two scenarios were considered at the time of appraisal: NPVS with and without the value of time.

The results of the economic analysis for the periodic maintenance works conducted under APL1 are as
follows:




                                                   - 26 -

The consolidated results of the road program in the preparation and appraisal period of the project and
those at the completion time are not comparable for the following reasons:

     i. the periodic maintenance for RN 25 was not finalized under APL1, and is financed under APL2 ;
    ii. no economic analysis was run for the upgrade works for RN43, added to the contract for RN 6.

Ports of Mahajanga and Toliara improvement:

The purpose of the economic analysis is to measure the efficiency of investments made in the Ports of
Toliara and of Mahajanga under the TSRRP. An economic analysis was conducted during the Project
preparation, based on the cost benefit analysis. As the model applied during the Project preparation was not
available at the time of ICR, a simulation model was developed on Excel spreadsheet, based on the
following information:

   l data from key economic parameters (for discount rate, increase in prices);
   l ports operating costs, evolution of traffics, actual costs and financing, financial and economic
        consequences of investment, as provided by APMF.

Besides, the costs of investments and the traffic forecasts were actualized.

Two cost/benefit assessments were carried out, from two different perspectives:

     i. from the APMF's perspective, through an analysis of the financial viability of the management and
        the operation of the newly rehabilitated infrastructures. As a matter of fact, APMF is collecting the
        fees, as the concession authority, and is in charge of the maintenance of those infrastructures, until
        the final institutional arrangements are set up, through autonomous port companies (SPA, Sociétés
        de Port Autonome); and,
    ii. from the State's perspective, through an analysis of the economic viability of the public investment
        operations financed by the State.


The main assumptions and parameters used under the present model are as follows:
   l The analysis period corresponds to the length of the management and operation contract, which is
        set under the analysis, that is 20 years (parameter identical to the ones in the PAD);
   l APMF invests in port operation equipments (essentially handling and transport equipments,
        computer and office equipments,...) ; the costs and benefits related to such investments are not
        considered in the analysis (not processed by the model);



                                                     - 27 -

   l The costs of investment in infrastructure are those effectively spent under related contracts
        (updated parameters);
   l The average taxation rate for appraising the economic costs of investments is 20 %, as in the PAD;
   l The growth rates for traffics (for long term projection) are respectively 15 % (versus 10 % in
        PAD) for the Port of Toliara and 10% (as in the PAD) for the Port of Mahajanga (updated
        parameters). In fact, with such growth rates, the capacities of the ports under study are going to be
        saturated very quickly (within 6 or 7 years); thus, the long term forecast tonnages are theoretical,
        as they outdo the ports' capacities. Hence, planning new investments for port extension should be
        considered.
   l A price growth rate equal to 2.5 % per year is applied to integrate the macro economic indexes ;
        such rate applies to port operation costs, fees and duties, but is relatively neutral in the accounts of
        APMF and that of the State (updated parameter);
   l The annual operation costs of APMF represent 5% of the initial investment cost; such costs cover
        the maintenance expenses (rate identical to that of PAD) ;
   l APMF collects revenues from user fees and duties of an average rate of US $ 4 / ton (vs. US $3 /
        ton in PAD); such revenues constitute the main portion its annual turnover;
   l The overall conditions for borrowing are those provided in the provisions of the Credit Agreement
        N°3364-MAG : 30 year repayment period, 10 year deferred repayment, interest rate at 0.75% per
        year ;

In addition, the following indications are considered:
   l The balance of APMF provides the outstanding payments resulting from money outgoings
        (operation cost) and money in goings (user duties and fees), from year to year. Based on this
        balance, the model provides the Net Present Value (NPV), at the rate of 12 % (same rate as in the
        PAD) ;
   l The State Accounts show the consequences of port investment on public finances. From the costs
        borne by the State, we can quote: the investments, from Bank Credit proceeds, the related debt
        service (IDA annual credit repayment), as well as the amortization of such investments.
        Conversely, the State would collect the following duties and taxes: (i) duties on fees paid by users,
        including essentially VAT, at the average rate of 20%, (ii) taxes on the profit of APMF, at the rate
        of 30%, and (iii) duties related to the work achieved under the implementation of investments,
        namely VAT at the rate of 20%. At the end of the analysis period (20 years), and in application of
        accounting rules, the State will have to recover the residual value of investments, the actual
        lifecycle of which is 40 years (that is an annual amortization rate of 2.5%). Based on those, the
        model provides the NPV of the state cash flows, as well as the Economic rate of return of the
        investments it has made.

    Results:

       Investment               Economic Efficiency                At completion                      In PAD
Port of Mahajanga                     EIRR in %                          37.0                          29.8
                               NPV in millions of US$                   6.25                            4.5
Port of Toliara                       EIRR in %                          22.0                          27.5
                               NPV in millions of US$                    5.3                            3.6




                                                     - 28 -

Rivers Program:

Methodology: The economic analysis of investments made on Sofia and Tsiribihina rivers is similar to the
one conducted for port investments. The only difference lies in the impacts of passenger traffics. Actually
the upgraded rivers serve as travelling means for both riparian rural population and tourists.
The main parameters used under the model are as follows:

   l The analysis period corresponds to the length of the management and operation contract, which is
        set under the analysis, that is 20 years (parameter identical to that of PAD);
   l The costs of investment in infrastructure are those effectively spent under related contracts
        (updated parameters);
   l The average taxation rate for appraising the economic costs of investments is 20 % (parameter
        identical to that of PAD) ;
   l The growth rates for traffics (for long term projection) are 5 % (versus 2.5 % in PAD) for both
        rivers ; such a rate results from the primary assessments made by APMF technicians;
   l A price growth rate equal to 2.5 % per year is applied to integrate the macro economic indication
        in use ; such a rate applies to operation costs, fees and duties; this rate is relatively neutral in the
        account of APMF and that of the State (updated parameter);
   l The annual operation costs under the management and operation system by APMF represent 5% of
        the initial investment cost; such costs cover the expenses for maintaining the works (rate identical
        to that of PAD)
   l APMF, as part of his mandate, collects revenues from user fees and duties of an average rate of
        US $ 0.5 / ton of goods and US $ 0.2 per traveller; such revenues provide the main element making
        up its annual turnover.
   l The overall conditions for borrowing are those provided in the provisions of the Credit Agreement
        N°3364-MAG : 30 year repayment period, 10 year deferred repayment, interest rate at 0.75% per
        year ;

The following indications are also provided:
   l The balance of APMF provides the outstanding payments resulting from money outgoings
        (operation cost) and money in goings (user fees and duties), from year to year. Based on such
        balance, the model provides the Net Present Value (NPV) for such money flows, at the rate of 12
        % (same rate as in PAD) ;
   l The State Accounts show the consequences of port investment on public finance. As regards
        charges, the State has financed the investment in ports from resources coming from loan borrowed
        from the World Bank; it ensures the related service of debts (IDA annual loan repayment) as well
        as the amortization of such investments. Conversely, it collects the following as part of public
        revenues: (i) duties on fees paid by users, including essentially VAT, at the average rate of 20%,
        (ii) taxes on the profit of APMF, at the rate of 30%, and (iii) duties related to the work achieved
        under the implementation of investments, namely VAT at the rate of 20%. At the end of the
        analysis period (20 years), and in application of accounting rules, the State will have to recover the
        residual value of investments, the actual lifecycle of which is 40 years (that is an annual
        amortization rate of 2.5%). The model provides the NPV of the State's cash flows, as well as the
        Economic Rate of return of the investments it has made.




                                                     - 29 -

- 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/15/1994                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              02/23/1995                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              05/30/1995                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              09/12/1995                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              02/06/1996                3    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); RESEARCH ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              06/25/1996                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              07/04/1998                6    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); PRIN. TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SR. PORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR. PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER--CONS.(1); Lars
                                             Madsen??
              02/16/1999                1    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              07/17/1999                3    LEAD SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SR. PORT SPECIALIST (1)
              04/02/1997                1    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
              01/19/1997                1    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/25/1999
              02/15/2000                1    LEAD SPECIALIST (1)




 Supervision
              12/08/2000                4    LEAD RURAL                       S               S
                                             TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST--TTL (1);
                                             PORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LEAD
                                             SPECIALIST--FORMER
                                             TTL (1); PROJECT
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              07/06/2001               11    LEAD RURAL TRANSPORT             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST--TTL (1); RURAL
                                             TRANSPORT (1); PORTS (1);
                                             RAILWAYS (1); CIVIL



                                              - 31 -

                 AVIATION (1); ASSISTANT
                 (1); INTERMEDIATE MEANS
                 OF (1); RURAL ROADS (1);
                 WATER TRANSPORT (1);
                 ENVIRONMENT (1); ROAD
                 FUND (1)
02/21/2002    12 LEAD RURAL TRANSPORT            U    U
                 SPECIALIST--TTL (1); SR.
                 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                 CIVIL AVIATION SPECIALIST
                 (1); RAILWAY SPECIALIST
                 (1); SR. PORT SPECIALIST (1);
                 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); CONSULTANT--SPEC.
                 IMT (1);
                 CONSULTANT--TRANSPORT
                 ECONOMIST (1); INTERN (1)
07/19/2002    3  LEAD RURAL TRANSPORT            U    U
                 SPECIALIST--TTL (1); SR.
                 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                 CONSULTANT (1)
10/09/2002    10 LEAD RURAL TRANSPORT            S    S
                 SPECIALIST--TTL (1);
                 TRANSPORT
                 SPECIALIST--CO-TTL (1); SR.
                 COUNSEL (1); SR. FINANCE
                 OFFICER (1); LEAD
                 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                 SR. FINANCIAL
                 MANAGEMENTVSPECIALIST
                 (1); PROCUREMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 ENVIRONMENTAL
                 SPECIALIST (1); PROGRAM
                 ASSISTANT (1); PROJECT
                 ASSISTANT (1)
02/21/2003    9  LEAD RURAL TRANSPORT            S    S
                 SPECIALIST--TTL (1);
                 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                 MARITIME TRANSPORT SPE
                 (1); SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                 PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                 IMT SPECIALIST (1);
                 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                 S (1); PROCUREMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                 (1)
05/23/2003    8  LEAD RURAL TRANSPORT            S    S
                 SPECIALIST--TTL (1);
                 TRANSPORT SPEC. (1); PORT



                 - 32 -

                       SPEC. (1); AIR TRANSPORT
                       SPEC. (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                       SPEC. (1); PROCUREMENT
                       SPEC. (1); FIN. MGMT SPEC.
                       (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
      10/27/2003    8  LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL        S    S
                       (2); SR TRANSPORT
                       SPECIALIS (1); TRANSPORT
                       SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                       ASSISTANT (1); SR LAWYER
                       (1); FM SPECIALIST (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1)
      05/28/2004    8  LEAD RURAL TRANSPORT          S    S
                       SPECIALIST--TTL (1);
                       TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (2);
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                       (1); LEAD TRANSPORT SPEC.
                       (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                       PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
      12/03/2004    11 PORT SPECIALIST (1); SR.      S    S
                       TRANSPORT SPEC. (2);
                       TRANSPORT
                       SPECIALIST--TTL (1);
                       INTERN (1); SAFEGUARDS
                       SPEC. (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                       PROC. SPEC. (1); FIN. MGT
                       SPEC. (1); TEAM ASSISTANT
                       (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                       (1)
      05/13/2005    0  UPDATE                        U    S
      06/24/2005    12 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST          S    S
                       --TTL (1); SR. TRANSPORT
                       SPECIALIST (2);
                       ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                       (2); LEAD SECTOR
                       SPECIALIST (1); LEAD
                       RURAL TRANSPORT
                       SPECIALIST (1); LEAD PORT
                       TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                       SR. FINANCIAL
                       MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); SR. PROCUREMENT
                       SPECIALIST (1);
                       CONSULTANT --EQUIP.
                       SPEC. (1); PROGRAM
                       ASSISTANT

ICR




                       - 33 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             106.9                         565.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   44.9                         211.6
  Supervision                          174.23                          863.0
  ICR
  Total                                326.03                        1,640.0
Supervision includes ICR as well.




                                              - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Preparation Documents
   Mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office reports.
   Staff Appraisal Report

Implementation Documents
   Project Status Reports (PSRs).
   Aide-Memoires of supervision missions.

Progress Reports

Mid Term Review Report




                                               - 37 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

Préface : IDENTIFICATION DU PROJET

L'identification du projet qui porte sur le secteur des routes et des transports a débuté dès 1994 avec les
travaux préparatoires réalisés par le Groupe de Travail Interministériel sur les Transports (GTIT) structure
                                                                                                     1


mise en place cette même année par le Gouvernement pour être en charge de l'élaboration des plans et
programmes de développement dans le secteur des Transports, compte
tenu des conclusions et recommandations de l'étude du Plan National des Transports (1993-2000) réalisée
sur financement de la Banque Mondiale et dont les résultats ont été validés en 1993.
Les travaux réalisés par le GTIT de 1995 à 1997 et validés par l'ensemble des parties prenantes ont permis
au Gouvernement de disposer d'une vision des enjeux à moyen terme du secteur et de
cibler les priorités immédiates au niveau des investissements physiques. Ils ont été consignés dans cinq
documents, à savoir :
    · le document de Politique et Stratégie des Transports (PST)
    · le Schéma Directeur des Transports (SDT)
    · le Plan d'Actions des Transports (PAT)
    · le Document de Synthèse Final (DSF)
    · le document sur l'Ensemble des Projets Physiques (EPP)
Au vu de la teneur de ces travaux et du projet de Déclaration de Politique Sectorielle envoyé en mai 1998
par le Ministre des Transports et de Météorologie à la Banque Mondiale pour commentaires, la Banque
Mondiale a considéré que l'identification du projet était suffisamment avancée pour passer à la préparation
du projet qui porterait sur la mise en oeuvre :
    (i) d'un programme d'investissements prioritaires :
         a. devant être justifiés au plan économique, financier et social par rapport au cadrage
              macroéconomique et à la capacité globale de financement du pays
         b. prenant en compte les charges récurrentes subséquentes
         c. fondés sur des priorités claires et objectives, et un arbitrage intermodal au plan des transports
              intérieurs entre transport routier, cabotage, transport fluvial et chemin de fer
    (ii) d'un programme de réformes institutionnelles, règlementaires, de gestion et d'organisation
    constituant des mesures essentielles d'accompagnement de ces investissements et visant à assurer la
    viabilité opérationnelle des investissements réalisés et leur bonne gestion. La mission de préparation du
    projet a démarré en juin 1998, suivi de la mission d'évaluation en novembre 1999 et de la mission
    post-évaluation en février 2000 pour aboutir enfin à la signature de l'Accord de Crédit 3364-MAG en
    juin 2000 correspondant à la Première des quatre tranches du Projet de Réforme et de Réhabilitation du
    Secteur des Transports (PRRST) et sa mise en vigueur en novembre 2000.

Description et démarrage du projet
Historique
 Contexte politique
Le pays a connu au début des années 1990 une crise économique qui a contribué à accroître la pauvreté, à
désorganiser les services de l'Etat et à accélérer la dégradation du patrimoine des infrastructures, et en
particulier du réseau routier. Pour remédier à la situation, le Gouvernement a mis en place dès 1994 un
Document Cadre de Politique Economique (DCPE) pour soutenir le scénario
retenu de croissance rapide et soutenue. Le DCPE qui définissait les objectifs quantitatifs par période
triennale du programme d'action macroéconomique ainsi que ceux de la stratégie et des politiques
sectorielles, était régulièrement actualisé et approuvé d'un commun accord par le Gouvernement, le Fonds
Monétaire International et la Banque Mondiale. Il a été remplacé en 2000 par le Document Intérimaire de



                                                       - 38 -

Stratégie pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté (DSRP-I), issu d'un processus d' elaboration participatif avec la
société civile, et où les objectifs resteront globalement les mêmes, mais avec un accent plus prononcé sur la
réduction de la pauvreté. Parallèlement, le Gouvernement s'était résolument engagé dans un processus de
décentralisation avec la mise en place de six provinces autonomes prévue courant 2001 et avec le
renforcement du rôle des 1 392 communes.
 Situation économique et sociale
Madagascar, grande île de l'Océan Indien, caractérisée par un territoire immense (587 051 km2),
s'étendant du Nord au Sud sur une longueur de 1 600 km et d'Est en Ouest sur une largeur de 570 km,
avec plus de 5 000 km de longueur de côte, comptait en l'an 2000 une population relativement faible (15,1
millions d'habitants), pauvre et disséminée.
La baisse des performances économiques entre 1991 et 1996 suite aux événements de 1991 et les
bouleversements qui s'en sont suivi dont la suspension des accords économiques internationaux, a eu des
répercussions négatives sur la situation de la pauvreté qui s'est détériorée en 1997 par rapport à 1993 (taux
de pauvreté estimé à 73,3% en 1997 contre 70,0% en 1993). La croissance économique a repris en 1997 et
connaissait sur plusieurs années de suite une certaine stabilité autour de 4% pour atteindre 4,8 % en 2000.
Ce redressement économique depuis 1997 s'est traduit par une amélioration progressive de la situation de
la pauvreté, le taux de pauvreté en l'an 2000 étant estimé à 70,2%, niveau comparable à celui de 1993.
En 2000, le Produit Intérieur Brut par habitant atteignait seulement 260 USD constants de 1984, soit 77%
de son niveau de 1971 (338 USD constants de 1984). Le budget de l'Etat en 2000 était de 4 770 milliards
de FMG (de l'ordre de 705 millions USD), représentant 18,1% du PIB avec un apport des aides extérieures
de près de 2 561 milliards de FMG (environ 378,5 millions USD), soit 10,0% du PIB.
Sur le plan de l'endettement, l'absence d'accords de réaménagement entre 1991 et 1996 a aggravé la
situation, ayant entraîné une accumulation importante d'arriérés de paiements extérieurs. Le service de la
dette extérieure en 1995 représentait 52% des recettes d'exportation. Les accords de réaménagement de
1997 (Club de Paris VIII) et de 2000 (Extension du Club de Paris VIII) ont permis une réduction de la
valeur actualisée nette de la dette. En fin 2000, après les allègements traditionnels, la valeur actualisée de la
dette publique extérieure représentait encore 57,7 % du PIB et 248,0 % des recettes d'exportation des biens
et services non facteurs (cf. Annexe 1). Compte tenu de ce niveau d'endettement et de la situation
économique du pays, la Banque Mondiale et le Fonds Monétaire International ont reconnu que Madagascar
a atteint en décembre 2000 « le point de décision » d'éligibilité à l'Initiative en faveur des Pays Pauvres
Très Endettés (IPPTE), ce qui lui a permis de bénéficier dès l'année 2001 d'une réduction de 50% du
service de la dette.
 Etat des lieux et problèmes majeurs
En matière d'infrastructures de transport, le pays disposait (i) d'un réseau routier national de 25 000 km
dont 5 600 km de routes revêtues, (ii) d'un réseau ferroviaire métrique de 895 km composé de deux réseaux
distincts : le Réseau Nord totalisant 738 km avec la ligne principale de 377 km de long reliant la capitale
Antananarivo au port long-courrier principal de Toamasina et le Réseau Sud constitué par les 163 km de
voie ferroviaire reliant Fianarantsoa au port de Manakara, (iii) d'un réseau de 17 ports classés dont 1 port
long-courrier principal, 3 ports long-courrier secondaires et 13 ports de cabotage, (iv) d'un réseau dense de
55 aéroports et aérodromes ouverts à la circulation aérienne publique composé de 12 aéroports principaux
dont 4 aéroports internationaux et de 43 aéroports secondaires, et (v) d'un canal navigable sur 400 km (le
Canal de Pangalanes), reliant le port de Toamasina à celui de Mananjary. Ce réseau d'infrastructures était
en mauvais état quel que soit le mode, bien que le Gouvernement ait consenti des efforts soutenus pour
améliorer l'état de l'offre de transport avec le concours des principaux bailleurs de fonds notamment avec
la Banque Mondiale à travers la réalisation de plusieurs grands projets de réhabilitation entre 1966 et 1996
dont 7 projets routiers, 3 projets ferroviaires, 1 projet portuaire, 1 projet de réhabilitation des aéroports
principaux et 1 projet de
réhabilitation du Canal des Pangalanes. La situation était tout particulièrement alarmante pour le mode
routier dont la perte du patrimoine a été estimé entre 1975 et 1995 à de l'ordre de 1 000 km en moyenne


                                                      - 39 -

par an, faute d'entretien adéquat, bien qu'il soit le mode de loin le plus utilisé en assurant plus de 90% des
transports intérieurs de passagers et de marchandises. Les problèmes majeurs étaient :
   l l'absence d'entretien efficace des infrastructures, en particulier dans le domaine routier où cela
        suppose notamment pour y remédier : la réactivation des réformes institutionnelles (MTP, FER,
        désengagement des activités opérationnelles), la mobilisation de ressources suffisantes et pérennes
        pour l'entretien (courant et périodique), le renforcement des capacités et des moyens des maîtres
        d'ouvrages locaux, l'encouragement et l'accompagnement du développement du secteur privé
        (PME de l'entretien routier), l'utilisation prioritaire des fonds dégagés par le Gouvernement pour
        l'entretien et non pour de nouveaux investissements
   l l'insuffisance de la coordination entre les différents modes de transport, en particulier entre la route
        et les autres modes (accès routiers aux aéroports et aux terminaux ferroviaires et portuaires, prise
        en compte du cabotage et du transport fluvial dans les stratégies de désenclavement) ; cela suppose
        pour y remédier une vision unique regroupant les transports et les routes ainsi qu'une connaissance
        fine des interrelations entre les différents modes et des enjeux socio-économiques qui y sont liés
   l la méconnaissance et l'absence de vision globale des coûts de transport et de la qualité de service
        offerte par les différents modes, d'où la difficulté à apprécier les priorités et les actions les plus
        pertinentes pour réduire les coûts et améliorer cette qualité de service
   l le comportement encore timide de l'Etat dans la reconnaissance effective du rôle que peut jouer le
        secteur privé dans la participation à la gestion des différents modes de transport, en particulier
        dans le domaine de gestion des ressources mobilisées pour l'entretien routier à travers le Conseil
        d'Orientation de l'Entretien Routier , organe de délibération du Fonds d'Entretien Routier (FER)
                                               2


   l l'inconnue que représentait encore la mise en oeuvre du processus de décentralisation avec la mise
        en place de 6 provinces autonomes qui auraient leur propre vision en terme de politique de
        transport, avec en corollaire la nécessité de disposer d'un outil fort permettant d'assurer la
        cohérence au niveau national des politiques locales dans le domaine mais également de doter les
        provinces de plans sectoriels locaux.
 Cadre institutionnel
Deux ministères techniques intervenaient dans la gestion du secteur des transports, à savoir, le Ministère
des Transports et de la Météorologie (MTM) pour la mise en oeuvre de la politique du Gouvernement en
matière de transport et le Ministère des Travaux Publics (MTP) pour la gestion des infrastructures
routières et du Canal des Pangalanes. Une profonde refonte de l'organisation et du fonctionnement du
secteur sur base de désengagement de l'Etat des activités d'exploitation et de production au profit du
secteur privé a été engagée depuis 1997 avec la Réforme du Secteur Public dont le MTP est l'un des 6
Ministères-pilotes à restructurer.

Objectifs du Projet
 Objectifs à long terme
Le Projet vise trois grands objectifs de développement :
   l Améliorer l'efficacité économique en appuyant le Gouvernement dans la mise en oeuvre d'une
        stratégie de transfert au secteur privé certaines compétences que celui-ci peut assumer
   l Développer la croissance économique en éliminant les goulots d'étranglement des infrastructures
        dans une économie ouverte de plus en plus diversifiée
   l Assurer la pérennité des infrastructures existantes et la protection du patrimoine naturel en donnant
        la priorité à l'entretien et à la conservation des infrastructures et en intégrant la dimension sociale et
        environnementale dans la préparation et le suivi-évaluation des programmes sectoriels.
 Objectifs à court terme
Les objectifs à court terme contribuant à la réalisation des 3 grands objectifs de développement sont :
   l Poursuivre du processus de réforme du cadre réglementaire régissant les activités de transport dans
        un contexte de libéralisation progressive du secteur conformément à la Déclaration de Politique


                                                       - 40 -

         Nationale des Transports et de Stratégie Routière du 6 avril 2000 avec l'objectif d'instaurer un
         cadre incitatif au développement du secteur privé et à la professionnalisation des opérateurs de
         transport
   l Poursuivre la restructuration du MTP et du MTM dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre de la réforme
         de la politique sectorielle en conformité avec la Déclaration de Politique Nationale des Transports
         et de Stratégie Routière du 6 avril 2000 et les orientations du DCPE (1999-2001)
   l Intégrer la dimension environnementale dans les projets et programmes de transport en vue d'une
         meilleure préservation et protection, voire d'une amélioration de l'état de l'environnement pour un
         développement durable
   l Rétablir le niveau de service et la fonctionnalité des infrastructures de transport prioritaires à
         travers les opérations d'entretien et de réhabilitation.

Composantes du Projet, Objectifs et Résultats attendus par Composante
Le Projet de Réforme et de Réhabilitation du Secteur des Transports (PRRST) comporte pour sa première
phase (APL1) quatre composantes dont les objectifs et résultats attendus par composante sont récapitulés
ci-après.
 Réforme du Cadre Réglementaire et Développement du Secteur Privé
Cette composante a pour objectif d'améliorer la compétitivité du secteur en créant un environnement libéral
de nature à encourager la participation du secteur privé dans les investissements, la gestion et la promotion
du secteur. Les résultats attendus sont (i) les textes réglementaires mis à jour et adaptés au contexte de
promotion du secteur privé, (ii) la capacité de l'Administration et des structures externalisées en matière de
régulation et de suivi des activités de transport renforcée, (iii) l'audit de la facilitation des transports et du
commerce international réalisé et le programme d'action des mesures correctives y afférent élaboré, (iv) le
programme de désengagement de l'Etat des activités d'exploitation et de production mis en oeuvre et (v) la
stratégie de formation des acteurs du sous-secteur des transports routiers élaborée.
Les avancées de réformes déjà mises en place lors de la préparation du Projet ont été les suivantes :
   l La refonte du Code Maritime (loi n°99-028 du 3 février 2000)
   l La privatisation de la gestion du Canal des Pangalanes en 1997 (ports fluviaux et flottes)
   l La liquidation de la Compagnie de Navigation Maritime (CMN) en fin 1999
   l La création de l'Aviation Civile de Madagascar (Décret n° 99-821 du 20 octobre 1999), structure
         autonome chargée de la régulation du sous-secteur de l'aéronautique civile
   l Le lancement en 1999 du processus de mise en concession du Réseau Ferroviaire Nord
   l La refonte de la Charte Routière (loi n°98-026 du 20 janvier 1998)
   l La promulgation de la loi sur la maîtrise d'ouvrage publique (loi n°99-023 du 19 août 1999)
   l La création du FER (loi n° 97-035 du 1er décembre 1997) et sa mise en place effective en 1999
         (Décret n° 99-837 du 25 octobre 1999 portant création d'une redevance d'usage de la route).
 Restructuration et Réforme de la Politique Sectorielle
Cette composante a pour objectifs (i) d'appuyer la restructuration du MTP et du MTM pour une gestion
plus efficace dans le cadre de désengagement de l'Etat des activités d'exploitation et de production, de la
réforme de la fonction publique et de la décentralisation, (ii) de développer leurs capacités à assumer leurs
missions recentrées dans les fonctions régaliennes et (iii) de renforcer leur capacité de gestion et de suivi de
la mise en oeuvre du Programme Sectoriel des Transports (PST). Les résultats attendus sont (i) le MTP et
le MTM avec leurs structures déconcentrées effectivement réorganisés et les agences routières mises en
place, (ii) les plans sociaux d'accompagnement selon les normes IDA préparés et acceptés par les
                                                                                     3


partenaires sociaux, (iii) un Secrétariat Exécutif chargé de la gestion et du suivi de la mise en oeuvre du
PST et des cellules d'appui au projet IDA mis en place au sein des 2 Ministères et (iv) l'étude de Politique
des Transports Routiers réalisée.
 Protection de l'environnement



                                                      - 41 -

Cette composante a pour objectifs (i) de renforcer la capacité des 2 Ministères dans l'évaluation et le suivi
de la performance environnementale du secteur , (ii) de préparer un programme de prévention et
                                                   4


d'atténuation contre les cataclysmes naturels avec la mise en oeuvre les mesures d'urgence de protection du
littoral pour enrayer les risques sérieux d'érosion et remédier aux graves problèmes environnementaux, (iii)
d'assister à la mise en conformité des principaux ports aux normes exigées par les Conventions MARPOL
et OPRC ratifiées par le Gouvernement, (iv) d'appuyer le projet d'enlèvement d'épaves, et (v) de soutenir
les actions d'anticipation et de prévention des dégâts cycloniques. Les résultats attendus sont (i) les
capacités d'évaluation et de suivi régulier de la performance environnementale du secteur par les 2
Ministères renforcées et les mesures environnementales liées aux projets APL1 prises en compte et suivies
tout au long du cycle de ces projets, (ii) l'étude sur la prévention des catastrophes naturelles effectuée ainsi
que les études et travaux de protection côtière de Toamasina et de Morondava, (iii) le programme d'actions
de mise en conformité des principaux ports aux normes MARPOL et OPRC élaboré (iv) le repêchage des
                                                                                          5


épaves à Tolagnaro et Nosy Mangabe effectué, et (v) des stocks de ponts métalliques démontables de type
Bailey ou Mabey pour faire face aux dégâts cycloniques constitués.
  Amélioration des Infrastructures économiques
Cette composante a pour objectifs (i) de rétablir ou d'améliorer les niveaux de service des principales
infrastructures et équipements de transport pour répondre aux besoins des trafics à travers des opérations
d'entretien, de réhabilitation et d'aménagement ainsi que du contrôle de leur bonne exécution et (ii) de
promouvoir le développement des infrastructures ayant des impacts directs sur les activités productrices en
milieu rural et sur l'essor des activités touristiques. Les résultats attendus sont (i) les ports de Mahajanga et
de Toliara réhabilités et aménagés pour accueillir le trafic de
conteneurs, (ii) les Fleuves Tsiribihina et Sofia aménagés pour le développement du transport fluvial
traditionnel, (iii) l'entretien périodique de 527 km de routes principales revêtues ayant un trafic entre 200 et
500 véhicules/jour réalisé (RN25/RN45, RN6, RN34, et RN44/RN3a), (iv) l'ensemble de ces travaux bien
suivis et contrôlés, (v) l'étude de remise en état des établissements de signalisation maritime actualisée et
(vi) les études de faisabilité réalisées (entretien périodique et réhabilitation de 2 000 km de routes
principales, aménagement de 1 500 km de routes rurales, réhabilitation des 43 aérodromes secondaires,
développement du port de Toamasina et des ports de plaisance).
Organisation et Réalisation du projet      6


Le MTM et le MTP sont les agences d'exécution du Projet. Un Secrétariat Exécutif du PST (SE/PST),
placé sous l'autorité conjointe directe des Ministres MTM et MTP, a été mis en place au démarrage du
Projet pour assurer le pilotage (i) de la mise en oeuvre du PST toutes composantes et tous bailleurs
confondus et (ii) de l'exécution du Projet IDA. Il est assisté par deux Cellules de Suivi du Projet IDA (une
pour le MTM, une pour le MTP) chargées d'assurer les fonctions fiduciaires (tenue d'un système
comptable répondant aux exigences de l'IDA et respect des procédures de l'IDA en matière de passation
des marchés). Ces cellules ont été rattachées à la fois au Secrétariat Exécutif du PST et au Secrétariat
Général respectivement du MTM et du MTP.
Le SE/PST ne se substitue pas aux services des Ministères pour la rédaction des termes de référence et des
spécifications techniques. Ce sont également les cellules de suivi des projets par Bailleur de Fonds au sein
des Ministères qui préparent les dossiers d'appels d'offres et autres documents, en conformité avec les
règles du Bailleur concerné. Le rôle du SE/PST est d'assurer la revue de ces documents afin d'en garantir la
conformité avant envoi au Bailleur.
Pour assurer la coordination entre les Bailleurs de Fonds, le SE/PST est chargé d'organiser des réunions
multi bailleurs au moins deux fois par an, et de rédiger un Procès-verbal de chaque rencontre à distribuer
à l'ensemble des acteurs, faisant part de l'avancement des différents projets menés dans le cadre du PST et
assurant le partage des solutions aux problèmes évoqués.
Il a été prévu par ailleurs que la composante routière du projet APLI de l'IDA et les projets parallèles de
l'UE et de la BAD seraient gérés par une unité de gestion de projets commune aux bailleurs de fonds



                                                        - 42 -

UE, BAD et IDA. D'autres bailleurs de fonds pourraient s'y associer en tant que de besoin. Hormis les
procédures de passation des marches qui resteraient spécifiques à chaque bailleur, les audits, les systèmes
de gestion financière et de contrôle des déboursements, les procédures de contr6le et supervision des
contrats de travaux, et les normes de contrôle technique et environnemental des composantes
d'investissement seront communes.
L'interface du SE/PST et des Cellules de Suivi du Projet financé par l'IDA en tant qu'agences impliqués
dans l'exécution des différents volets du projet APL1 a été prévu comme suit :
au Ministère des Transports et de la Météorologie
    l Secrétariat Général (restructuration, environnement, gestion du Projet)
    l Direction des Transports Terrestres (étude sur la politique sectorielle du transport routier)
    l Direction des transports maritimes et Fluviaux, puis Agence Portuaire, Maritime et Fluviale
         (APMF) (réhabilitation portuaire, enlèvement des épaves, facilitation du transport et du commerce
         international, ratification des conventions MARPOL/OPRC, études de faisabilité pour les ports
         long-courrier et touristiques, amélioration des installations de navigation fluviale, étude de
         signalisation maritime)
    l Direction de la Météorologie (étude de prévention et d'atténuation des effets des catastrophes
         naturelles)
    l Réseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy (RNCFM)
    l Aviation Civile de Madagascar (ACM)
    l Société d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (SEPT)
au Ministère des Travaux Publics
    l Secrétariat Général (restructuration, environnement, gestion générale du Projet)
    l Unité de gestion de projets commune aux bailleurs de fonds UE, BAD et IDA (volets routiers du
         projet APL1)

Conception, exécution, réalisation et impact du Projet
 Evaluation de la Conception du Projet
La notion de « Programme Sectoriel des Transports » n'apparaît que tardivement en fin 1999 avec le Projet
APL1 comme un projet d'appui à sa réalisation. Auparavant, APL1 est conçu simplement comme un projet
sectoriel classique IDA portant sur les routes et les transports. Il n'y a pas de vision globale de la fonction
transport qui est multimodal et qui englobe les infrastructures et les services de transport. La coordination
des transports n'est pas suffisamment mis en exergue et l'identification des composantes du projet a été
faite principalement sur une base sous-sectorielle avec les différentes structures opérationnelles du MTP et
du MTM (Direction de la Planification et de la Programmation du MTP pour la composante routière,
Direction des Ports et de la Marine Marchande du MTM pour la composante portuaire, Réseau National
des Chemins de Fer Malagasy pour la composante ferroviaire, Direction des Transports Aériens puis
Aviation Civile de Madagascar pour la composante aéroportuaire). Le concept de gestion axée sur les
résultats et les impacts et le contrôle des performances n'étant introduit qu'ultérieurement avec les autres
APLs, il n'a pas fait état dans la conception du Projet APL1 de la nécessité de mise en place d'un système
de suivi évaluation tant pour le PST que pour le Projet.
 Principaux résultats obtenus dans chacune des composantes du Projet
Bien que le bilan des réalisations soit marqué par la lenteur de mise en place des réformes institutionnelles
et le problème de l'enlèvement des épaves qui n'est plus financé par le Projet entraînant une faiblesse
relative de l'exécution de la composante « Protection de l'environnement », force est de constater que les
autres actions entreprises ont été dans l'ensemble réalisées dans les règles de l'art et ont contribué
significativement au changement du cadre institutionnel, aux méthodes de gestion de l'Administration et à
l'amélioration du niveau de service des infrastructures de transport.
Les principaux résultats obtenus par composante du Projet sont explicités ci-après.
A. Composante Réforme du cadre réglementaire et Développement du secteur privé :


                                                     - 43 -

   l Cadre réglementaire de l'aéronautique civile :
         o   nouveau code de l'aviation civile élaboré et promulgué (loi n° 2004-027 du 09 septembre
             2004)
         o   plan de formation du personnel de l'ACM élaboré en juin 2003 et en cours de mise en
             oeuvre
         o   système informatisé de gestion de l'ACM mis en place depuis décembre 2003
         o   système informatique centralisé de contrôle des entrées et sorties du territoire mis en place
             en 2004 dans 9 aéroports principaux
         o   étude relative aux stratégies de désengagement de l'Etat du système aéroportuaire
             malagasy réactualisée et terminée en avril 2003
         o   concession des aéroports principaux et secondaires en cours de mise en oeuvre
   l Réforme du sous-secteur des Ports et des Transports maritimes et fluviaux :
         o   Agence Portuaire, Maritime et Fluviale mise en place (Décret n° 2003-659 du 4 juin 2003)
             et opérationnelle avec plan de formation élaboré en juin 2003 et en cours de mise en oeuvre
         o   loi portant statuts des ports élaborée et promulguée (loi n° 2003-025 du 5 septembre 2003)
         o   manutention aux ports de Toliara et Mahajanga mise en concession en 2003
         o   mise en concession globale du port de Manakara intégrée dans la mise en concession du
             Réseau ferroviaire Sud Statut de Port à Gestion Autonome de Toamasina promulgué
             (Décret n° 2004-702 du 14 juillet 2004)
         o   Concession du terminal à conteneurs du port de Toamasina : Convention signée en juin
             2005
   l Mise en concession de la gestion et l'exploitation des Réseaux Ferroviaires Nord et Sud :
         o   Réseau ferroviaire Nord : Convention de mise en concession signée en octobre 2002 et
             mise en vigueur en mars 2003 avec reprise des trafics depuis juillet 2003
         o   Réseau ferroviaire Sud : Appels d'offres de mise en concession lancés en octobre 2004,
             évalués en avril 2005 puis jugés infructueux et évolution en cours vers un appel d'offres
             pour un contrat de gestion
   l Commercialisation/liquidation des unités de production du Ministère des Travaux Publics :
         o   réduction progressive et significative de la régie directe depuis 2000
         o   étude sur la vente/commercialisation des actifs de production du MTP arrêtée en octobre
             2002 à 74% des réalisations
         o   création d'un environnement légal et réglementaire favorable à la création de société de
             leasing de matériel de travaux publics (loi n° 2004-052 du 28 janvier 2005 sur le Crédit
             Bail)
   l Développement des entreprises locales de construction :
         o   étude sur le développement des entreprises locales de construction terminée en novembre
             2001
         o   formation des PME et bureaux d'étude en technique de construction routière utilisant
             l'approche HIMO réalisée en septembre 2003
   l Etude de Stratégie de formation dans le sous-secteur des Transports Routiers :
         o   étude sur la stratégie de formation dans le secteur des Transports Routiers terminée à 90%
             en juin 2003
   l Facilitation des transports et du commerce international :
         o   audit de facilitation du transport et du commerce international : résultats d'audit restitués
             et plan d'actions adopté en atelier avec les concernés en août 2003 et en cours de mise en
             oeuvre depuis 2004
B. Composante Restructuration et Réforme de la Politique Sectorielle :
   l Appui à la restructuration du MTP et du MTM :
         o   Plan de mise en oeuvre de la restructuration du MTP et du MTM selon les projets


                                                  - 44 -

             d'organisation adoptés en 1999 terminé en mars 2003 mais rendu caduque avec la mise en
             place de la Vice Primature regroupant les 3 Ministères Travaux Publics, Transports et
             Météorologie et Aménagement du Territoire
         o   Création infructueuse des agences routières en mars 2003, faute de candidats sélectionnés
             aux postes clés et évolution en cours vers la création d'une Autorité Routière
         o   l'Agence des Transports Terrestres en cours de mise en place à l'instar de l'ACM et de
             l'APMF
   l Préparation des plans sociaux :
         o   Préparation des plans sociaux démarrée depuis janvier 2001, résultats actualisés en 2003
             avec la mise en place de la Vice Primature puis de nouveau en cours d'actualisation avec
             la nouvelle structure MTPT
   l Renforcement des capacités :
         o   Importante assistance de consultants de haut niveau dans les 2 Ministères et au SE/PST
   l Etude de Politique de Transports Routiers :
         o   étude de Politique des Transports Routiers terminée en décembre 2003
C. Composante Protection de l'environnement :
   l Suivi de la performance environnementale du secteur :
         o   cellules environnementales du MTP et MTM encadrées et renforcées par bureau d'études
             spécialisé
         o   bureaux d'étude suivis et encadrés sur les aspects sociaux-économiques et
             environnementaux des APS
         o   cadre de la politique de déplacement et de compensation de la population adopté en juillet
             2002
         o   Etudes d'Impact Environnemental (EIE) pour les projets routiers réalisées
         o   EIEs pour les travaux portuaires réalisées (Manakara, Mahajanga, Toliara et Toamasina)
         o   Etude d'Impact Environnemental et Social (EIES) pour le Réseau ferroviaire Nord réalisée
         o   Evaluation environnementale de l'APL3 réalisée
   l Prévention et atténuation des effets des catastrophes naturelles :
         o   Carte des zones à risques par les catastrophes naturelles et bases de données élargies
             conformes aux exigences d l'Organisation Mondiale de la Météorologie constituées et
             validées
         o   Etudes de protection du littoral de Toamasina et de Morondava réalisées
   l Ratification des conventions MARPOL/OPRC :
         o   Plan d'actions pour la protection de la pollution par les hydrocarbures (navires et ports)
             élaboré
         o   Convention MARPOL/OPRC ratifiée (loi n° 2004-037 du 08 novembre 2004)
   l Enlèvement des épaves :
         o   Travaux annulés suite au coût prohibitif de l'offre des travaux (3 millions USD). Le
             financement n'est plus prévu dans APL1 mais envisagé si nécessité (menace
             environnementale réelle) dans APL3
   l Ponts métalliques modulaires démontables :
         o   Stock de ponts métalliques modulaires démontables Mabey constitué
D. Composante Amélioration des Infrastructures économiques :
   l Infrastructures portuaires et fluviales :
         o   Travaux de réhabilitation et d'aménagement des ports de Mahajanga et Toliara terminés
         o   Travaux d'aménagement des fleuves Tsiribihina et Sofia terminés
         o   Etude de remise en état des établissements de signalisation maritime actualisée
   l Travaux d'entretien périodique sur Routes Nationales :
         o   Travaux d'entretien périodique prévus sur RN 6, RN44, RN3a, RN34 terminés en 2003


                                                 - 45 -

                   sauf pour la RN 25 dont le contrat est résilié et le nouveau contrat pour terminer les
                   travaux est financé sur APL2
    l Supervision des travaux d'entretien périodique :
              o    Supervision des Travaux d'entretien périodique prévus sur RN 6, RN44, RN3a, RN34 et
                   RN 25 réalisée
    l     Etudes de faisabilité :
              o    Etudes de réhabilitation routière sur RN2, RN3a, RN44, RN7, RN2 et RN 5a réalisées
                   (préparation APL3)
              o    Etude d'un programme de routes rurales par aménagement de points critiques réalisée
                   (préparation APL2)
              o    Etude de réhabilitation des 43 aérodromes réalisée
              o    Etude de développement du Port de Toamasina réalisée
              o    Etude de développement des ports de plaisance réalisée

Coordination et Gestion du Projet
 Responsabilité du Coordinateur
Le Coordinateur a dans ses attributions une double responsabilité : (i) celle du pilotage de la mise en oeuvre
du Programme Sectoriel des Transports du Gouvernement multi composantes et multi bailleurs et (ii) celle
de gestion de l'exécution du projet IDA. Dans les faits, il reste principalement le gestionnaire local du
projet IDA car il n'y a pas une réelle appropriation de la notion de Programme Sectoriel des Transports
tant du côté du Gouvernement que du côté des autres bailleurs.
 Relation entre le Coordinateur du Projet et les Décideurs politiques
La relation entre le Coordinateur du Projet et les Décideurs politiques est difficile dès l'origine de la
conception du Secrétariat Exécutif comme une plateforme bicéphale Transports - Travaux Publics de
coordination relevant directement des Ministres et non intégrée aux activités des Ministères. Le nouvel
arrangement organisationnel transitoire adopté en juillet 2002 avec la Direction du SE/PST assurée de
manière conjointe par les SG des 2 Ministères vise à lever les difficultés relationnelles existant entre le
SE/PST et les SG des 2 Ministères auparavant, avec les cellules d'appui du projet IDA relevant à la fois du
SE/PST et des SG mais ne résout en rien la dualité entre les 2 Ministères.
L'autonomie accordée ensuite au SE/PST (Décret n°2002-1278 du 16 octobre 2002) avec un statut
juridique d'établissement public remplace l'autorité hiérarchique par l'autorité de tutelle et rend plus
difficile l'atteinte de l'objectif recherché au départ (i) de prise en charge progressive par les 2 Ministères de
la tâche régalienne de coordination de la mise en oeuvre du PST et (ii) d'internalisation du processus de
développement intégré des infrastructures et des services de transport.
 Relations entre le Coordinateur et les Responsables des Composantes
Le mot « composante » prend plusieurs connotations : composante sous-sectorielle ou composante du projet
APL1. Pour les composantes sous-sectorielles, les responsables sont les directions opérationnelles des 2
Ministères ou les organismes spécialisés ou externalisés sous tutelle. Le Coordinateur joue le rôle de relais
du bailleur de fonds principalement réduit à l'IDA. Pour la composante routière financée par l'Union
Européenne (UE), deux structures spécifiques ont été crées indépendamment du SE/PST (Cellule d'Appui
aux Réformes Institutionnelles et à l'Entretien Routier et Cellule de gestion des Grands Travaux). Quant
aux responsables des composantes du Projet financé par l'IDA, il n'y a pas de désignations officielles et le
suivi des différentes actions est assuré de manière diffuse par les différents Conseillers du SE/PST.
 Principales leçons à tirer
La réflexion sur l'organisation du pilotage du PST aurait dû être plus approfondie, avec appropriation et
partage de la part des responsables des deux Ministères dans une approche réellement multi composantes
et multi bailleurs et mise en place d'un système opérationnel de suivi évaluation.
 Impact du Projet dans la mise en oeuvre de la politique nationale sur la protection sociale
L'impact du projet dans la mise en oeuvre de la politique nationale sur la protection sociale se situe à deux


                                                       - 46 -

niveaux. Pour la restructuration des 2 Ministères, des plans sociaux ont été préparés de manière à assurer
la reconversion du personnel non redéployé et dont le poste est supprimé. Pour les projets
d'investissements, le cadre de la politique de déplacement et de compensation de la population a été élaboré
et adopté par le Gouvernement en juillet 2002 et les études d'impact social ont été réalisées conformément à
la politique nationale lors de l'établissement des projets d'exécution.

Analyse critique de l'action de la BM, du Gouvernement et de l'assistance technique
 Appréciations de l'action de la Banque Mondiale au cours de l'exécution du projet
Bien que l'action de la Banque Mondiale au cours de l'exécution du projet soit salutaire, il est souhaitable
qu'une ambiance de convivialité et de compréhension mutuelle des problématiques propres à chaque
partenaire soit installée de manière pérenne quels que soient les changements de personnel opérés dans la
conduite et la gestion des projets.
 Principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du Projet
Les principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du Projet ont été la prise en compte rapide des surcoûts
liés aux arrêts des travaux et prestations suite aux événements du premier semestre 2002
 Principales décisions ou absence de décisions ayant freiné l'exécution du Projet
Aucune décision ou absence de décision ayant freiné l'exécution du Projet n'a été remarquée a priori.
 Suivi du Projet par la Banque Mondiale
Le Projet est suivi par deux Chargés de Projet sous la responsabilité du Directeur des Opérations de la
Banque Mondiale : un Chargé de Projet résident (Mme Susanne Holste) et un Chargé de Projet basé hors
Madagascar (M. Dieter Schelling), intervenant lors des missions de supervision avec des spécialistes
modaux. Il n'y a pas eu de mission de supervision spécifique dédié au suivi du Projet par la Banque
Mondiale. Chaque mission de supervision couvre l'ensemble des interventions de la Banque au niveau des
différents APLs.
 Changements de Responsables
Le Responsable de projet qui a préparé et lancé le projet (M. Pedro Geraldes) a été remplacé au moment du
suivi de la mise en oeuvre par un nouveau Responsable de Projet (M. Dieter Schelling). Des
réaménagements de volets ont été par la suite opérés entre Composantes. L'organisation du SE/PST a été
revue et même son existence a été remise en cause en fin du projet.
 Missions de Suivi et de Consultations
Il n'y a pas de rythme dans les missions de suivi et de consultations, parfois très rapprochées, parfois très
espacées : deux missions en fin 2000 au moment du démarrage du Projet, une seule mission entre fin 2000
et octobre 2002 en raison de la crise, et depuis 3 missions en moyenne par an.
 Principales leçons à tirer
Au-delà des procédures fiduciaires, il est important de mettre en place des relations de travail fondées sur
une confiance réciproque entre partenaires et une approche partagée des méthodes et des responsabilités
dans la résolution des problèmes.

Appréciations de l'action du Gouvernement au cours de l'exécution du Projet
 Principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du Projet
Les principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du Projet ont été la mobilisation des ressources propres
internes au-delà même des obligations contractuelles.
 Principales décisions ou absence de décisions ayant freiné l'exécution du Projet
Les principales décisions ou absence de décisions ayant freiné l'exécution du Projet ont été la lenteur de
mise en place de la restructuration des Ministères et du plan de redéploiement du personnel.
 Difficultés de la Trésorerie et de la Contrepartie du Gouvernement
L'exécution du Projet n'a pas connu de difficultés en matière ni de trésorerie, ni de contrepartie. Le rythme
de décaissement a dû même être accéléré en fin de période en vue de sa clôture en juillet 2005. L'accord de
crédit prévoyait une contrepartie de 2,5 millions USD et l'Etat a contribué pour un montant de 5,6 millions



                                                     - 47 -

USD (compte tenu des cours standards de 1 USD = 1900 Ar utilisé par le SE/PST), soit un montant
supérieur à plus de 100 % par rapport au montant exigé par l'accord de Crédit, ce qui dénote l'importance
accordée par le Gouvernement au Projet.
 Suivi du Projet au niveau du Ministère de tutelle et/ou de l'Agence d'exécution
Le suivi du Projet au niveau du MTP et du MTM et/ou de l'Agence d'exécution n'est pas évident sur fonds
de restructuration depuis 1996 et qui ne se concrétise toujours pas. A cela s'ajoute la rotation fréquente de
responsables et du personnel de suivi des différentes composantes du Projet, à l'exception de ceux de la
composante portuaire où une certaine stabilité a été remarquée.
 Changements de Gouvernement et Conséquences sur le Suivi du Projet
L'événement majeur est la crise de 2002 qui a conduit à un espacement des missions de supervision et à un
ralentissement des activités se rapportant au Projet.
 Principales leçons à tirer
L'absence de continuité dans le suivi du Projet est un handicap majeur pour la réussite du Projet. Le
concept de mise en place du SR/PST a été en premier lieu de disposer d'une structure de pilotage du PST
du Gouvernement, puis accessoirement d'assurer la gestion de l'exécution du projet financé par l'IDA.
Dans les faits, cela a été le contraire avec la perte de la vision globale du transport.

Evaluation de l'efficacité et de la qualité des relations entre la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvernement
durant l'exécution du Projet
La qualité des relations entre la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvernement durant l'exécution du Projet est
globalement bonne. Quant à son efficacité, elle est difficile à mesurer tant qu'il n'y a pas d'objectifs de
convergence partagés et d'esprit de compréhension mutuelle.
Evaluation des Performances des différentes institutions, bureaux d'études et Consultants ayant
participé à la réalisation du projet
Les performances des différentes institutions, bureaux d'études et Consultants ayant participé à la
réalisation du Projet sont très diverses et sont fonction de la qualité des interlocuteurs du côté de
l'administration et du rythme et de la pertinence de suivi par le bailleur de fonds. (exemples : absence
d'harmonisation préalable du cahier de charges avec les opérateurs intéressés pour une finalisation du
choix du candidat sur la base de l'offre financière dans le cas de la préparation de la mise en concession des
Réseaux Ferroviaires Nord et Sud où l'évaluation des offres techniques a conduit à une seule offre à
évaluer financièrement en comparaison avec celle préparée par la SFI pour la concession du Terminal à
conteneurs, rupture de contrat d'assistance technique dans le cas du renforcement des capacités des cellules
environnementales des 2 Ministères, étude non concluante sur la réorganisation de la Direction Générale de
la Météorologie). Certaines études ont été réalisées (coûts) sans être exploitées efficacement dans les phases
de mises en oeuvre (bénéfices).

Evaluation économique et financière du Projet
Coût total du Projet
 Prévisions de départ et coûts réels pour les différentes composantes et catégories de dépenses du
projet
Le Tableau ci-après récapitule la situation de l'exécution financière du Projet par composante
ainsi que par catégorie de dépenses. Le détail est donné en Annexe2.




                                                      - 48 -

 Valeur et niveau de recouvrement de la Contrepartie du Gouvernement
Le recouvrement de la contrepartie du Gouvernement a été très satisfaisant puisque le montant global
déboursé s'est révélé supérieur à ce qui était prévu (5,6 millions USD contre 2,5 millions USD).
 Coûts récurrents engendrés par le Projet et ayant un impact sur le Budget de l'Etat
Il n'y a pas de coûts récurrents engendrés par le Projet et ayant un impact sur le Budget de l'Etat car les
charges d'entretien des infrastructures réhabilitées sont prises en charge par le Fonds d'Entretien Routier
pour les routes et par les structures de gestion autonomes pour les autres modes.
 Conséquences prévisibles de la fin du projet sur les structures institutionnelles en place dans le cadre
du Projet
La fin du projet est marquée par la suppression du SE/PST et le recours à un cabinet externe pour la
gestion fiduciaire et administrative du Projet.
 Principales leçons à tirer
Les fonctions fiduciaires doivent être clairement distinguées des fonctions de gestion technique des projets
et la structure organisationnelle doit mettre en exergue cette séparation de fonctions.
Perspectives sur la pérennisation des acquis
En matière de toilettage des textes légaux et réglementaires régissant le secteur des transports, on dispose
maintenant d'un environnement favorable au développement du secteur privé dans le cadre d'une économie
de marché.
La restructuration du MTPT est lente à se mettre en place en raison de la démarche participative et itérative
adoptée pour une meilleure acceptation du personnel. A l'actif des réalisations, le processus est déjà
irréversible et admis et le plan de redéploiement a déjà connu un début d'exécution.
Les travaux de réhabilitation des infrastructures économiques ont été exécutés selon les règles de l'art et
dans le respect des contraintes environnementales et sociales.

Conclusions
Il n'y avait pas à proprement parler de Programme d'actions du Gouvernement à moyen terme dans le
secteur des transports aboutissant à l'élaboration d'un Programme Sectoriel des Transports. Le contenu du
soi-disant PST est une agrégation des projets que l'IDA a bien voulu financer auxquels s'ajoutent certains
projets en cours ou prévus par les autres bailleurs de fonds. Par ailleurs, le fait de forcer les réformes
institutionnelles de grande ampleur dont la restructuration des 2 Ministères avec la déstabilisation de tout le
personnel sans disposer au niveau central de ces 2 Ministères d'un noyau dur de compétences partageant
l'esprit des réformes et capables de conduire rapidement la mise en oeuvre est une faiblesse majeure.




                                                     - 49 -

1collectif de compétences des différents départements ministériels concernés par les problèmes de transports
(Ministères de l'Economie et du Plan, des Finances et du Budget, des Transports et de la Météorologie, des
Travaux Publics, de l'Aménagement du Territoire, et Banque des Données de l'Etat), travaillant en synergie
pour préparer et finaliser de manière concertée et coordonnée entre les différentes parties prenantes
(départements ministériels concernés, représentants des opérateurs et des usagers du transport) les éléments
de politique et de stratégie des transports ainsi que les plans d'actions de mise en oeuvre.

2 Le Conseil d'Orientation de l'Entretien Routier (COER), organe de gestion du Fonds d'Entretien Routier
(FER), dispose en théorie d'une majorité de représentants des usagers mais le processus décisionnel
appartient en fait au Ministère des Travaux Publics (MTP) par le biais d'une tutelle technique et d'une
présidence confiée réglementairement au représentant du MTP.

3le financement des plans sociaux du MTP et du MTM a été prévu dans le cadre d'un autre APLs.

4par application des recommandations de l'étude d'évaluation environnementale du secteur des transports
réalisée en 1999 lors de la préparation du projet, notamment en ce qui concerne l'évaluation
environnementale des projets APL1.

5la mise en oeuvre du programme a été prévue dans le cadre d'un autre APLs.

6au sein du Ministère de tutelle et des autres ministères et agences impliqués dans l'exécution du projet.




                                                      - 50 -

- 51 -

- 52 -

- 53 -

- 54 -

Additional Annex 9. Various Statistics and Financial Data




                                           - 55 -

- 56 -

- 57 -

- 58 -

- 59 -

- 60 -

Additional Annex 10. Tables containing ratings criteria/indicators




                                          - 61 -

- 62 -

- 63 -

- 64 -

- 65 -

- 66 -

