Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3364-MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 19, 2000
CREDIT No. 3364-MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter of transport sector 
policy and a road sector strategy letter, both dated April 6, 2000, from 
the Borrower, describing therein a program of actions, objectives, and 
policies (the Program) designed to redefine and strengthen its aviation, 
port, maritime, railway and road sector transport with a view to (i) 
promoting more efficient and reliable transport services; and (ii) 
facilitating economic development
and declaring therein the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; and
(C)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its 
execution of the Program through a series of credits over a period of 
nine (9) years, the proceeds of such credits to be utilized by the 
Borrower for the implementation of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ACM” means the Borrower's civil aviation regulatory agency 
responsible for adopting sector regulations and providing sector 
supervision, established pursuant to Law No. 99-024 of the Borrower;
(b)
“Affiliated Agencies” means the existing departments and 
agencies of MOTM and MOPW (as hereinafter defined) and the ones to be 
established under the Project, including: (i) in respect of MOTM:
Aéroports de Madagascar, Autorité Portuaire Maritime et Fluviale, Société 
d'exploitation du Port de Toamasina, Ports de Morondava, Tolanaro, 
Toliara et Mahajanga, Société des Ports Autonomes, and Société de 
Patrimoine des Chemins de Fer; and (ii) in respect of MOPW: Laboratoire 
National des Travaux Publics et du Bâtiment, Agence Routière Centrale, 
Agence Routière Provinciale, Fond d'Entretien Routier, Institut National 
de l'Infrastructure, Service des Bâtiments Civils, Service de la 
Logistique et de la Maintenance, and Unités de Production Autonome;
(c)
“ENEAM” means Ecole Nationale d'Enseignement de 
l'Aéronautique et de la Météorologie, the school for aeronautics and 
meteorology, an affiliated agency of the MOTM;
(d)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year 
commencing January 1 and ending December 31;
(e)
“Malagasy Franc” means the currency of the Borrower;
(f)
“MARPOL Convention” means the International Convention for 
the Prevention of Pollution from Ships;
(g)
“MOPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower; 
(h)
“MOTM” means the Ministry of Transport and Meteorology of 
the Borrower;
(i)
“Operating Manuals” means the manuals adopted respectively 
by MOTM and MOPW and setting forth, inter alia, work plans, training 
programs, and procedures to be used for the purpose of implementing the 
Project, as may be amended from time to time with the prior written 
consent of the Association, such term to include any schedules thereto;
(j)
“OPRC Convention” means the International Convention on Oil 
Prevention Preparedness;
(k)
“PES” means Program Executive Secretariat, an autonomous 
unit of the Borrower to be established for the coordination of Project 
implementation;
(l)
“PIP” and “Project Implementation Plan” mean the 
comprehensive plan for the implementation of the Project referred to in 
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 
Page  3
3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Year” means each twelve-month period during Project 
implementation starting from the day after the Effective Date;
(p)
“RN” means Route Nationale, a road classified as a national 
road in the territory of the Borrower; and
(q)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty-eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
48,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in US dollars two special deposit accounts, one for the 
activities to be carried out by the MOTM and the other for those of the 
MOPW, in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure, 
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2005 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as 
Page  4
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, commencing November 
15, 2010 and ending May 15, 2040. Each installment to, and including the 
installment payable on May 15, 2020, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount  
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
Page  5
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, public utility, and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for 
the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain two accounts (the Project Accounts) in 
Malagasy Francs, one for the MOTM and the other for the MOPW, in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
promptly thereafter make two initial deposits of  amounts 
equivalent to Malagasy Francs 3,290,000,000 for the MOTM and Malagasy 
Francs 4,385,000,000 for the MOPW into such accounts to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project; 
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Accounts by March 31, 
July 31, and November 30 of each Fiscal Year during Project 
implementation such amounts as shall be required and agreed upon with the 
Association to replenish the Project Accounts in a timely manner to equal 
the amounts of the initial deposits referred to in paragraph (b); and
(d)
use the funds in the Project Accounts exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of its departments or agencies  responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including those for the 
Special Accounts, for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
Page  6
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts, 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
Page  7
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter, a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely 
that:
(a)
The Borrower has established the Project Accounts and 
deposited therein the initial deposits referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower has established two Special Accounts for the 
Project, one for the MOTM and the other for the MOPW.
(c)
The Borrower has established a financial management system 
for the Project Accounts, satisfactory to the Association.
(d)
The Borrower has established financial management and 
accounting systems satisfactory to the Association for the operations of 
the MOTM and the MOPW with regard to the implementation of the Project.
(e)
The Borrower has appointed to the staff of the PES an 
Executive Secretary, a Financial Management Advisor, and a Procurement 
Advisor. 
(f)
The Borrower has appointed to each Project unit in the MOTM 
and the MOPW, a Chief Accountant, an Accountant, and a Procurement 
Specialist.
(g)
The Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association a 
Project Implementation Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association.
(h)
The Borrower has  appointed external auditors under terms of 
reference, and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFIN
22489
(261-20) 2222920
Antananarivo 
(261-20) 2234530
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Zina Andrianarivelo-Razafy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
Page  9
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
   17,130,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
    4,620,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
   21,370,000
100% of foreign
services, training,
expenditures and
and audits
80% of local
expenditures
(4)
Operating costs
      225,000
80% of local
expenditures
(5)
Refunding of
    1,120,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    3,935,000
TOTAL
   48,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management, and 
monitoring, including office supplies, utilities expenses, vehicle and 
equipment operation, Special Account banking charges, transport, travel, 
per diem, supervision costs, and salaries of locally contracted 
administrative staff but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms 
and less than $30,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (d) 
local training programs under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; and (e) operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to provide assistance to the 
Borrower’s Program for the strengthening of its transport sector policy 
and management through support to the (a) further liberalization of its 
aviation, port, maritime, coastal shipping, and road transport services; 
(b) development of an autonomous regulatory framework; (c) reactivation 
of the trade and transport facilitation process; (d) promotion of 
public/private partnerships in investment and management of primary 
transport facilities and users/ beneficiaries in operations and 
maintenance; (e)
restructuring of the MOTM, the MOPW; (f) improvement of 
the competitiveness of small private transport operators and contractors; 
(g) development of a strategy for road transport policy and management; 
and (h) implementation of an environmentally sustainable sector 
investment program. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
Regulatory Reform and Private Sector Development
1.
Strengthening the regulatory framework for civil aviation through 
the (i) provision of technical advisory services for capacity building 
in, and management of, the newly established ACM; (ii) carrying out of 
training programs for the staff of the ACM and the ENEAM; (iii) provision 
of technical advisory services to the ACM, including the formulation of 
appropriate sector regulations and policies; and (iv) acquisition of 
equipment for passenger transit control and the carrying out of related 
studies.
2.
Reforming the port sector through the (i) provision of technical 
advisory services for the establishment of an autonomous shipping and 
ports regulatory agency and the concession of port operations and 
facilities; (ii) provision of technical advisory services to assist in 
reconciling the laws establishing  new autonomous agencies for secondary 
and
tertiary port management with the laws creating the autonomous 
provinces; and (iii) carrying out of a training program for the staff of 
the new agencies.
3.
Commercializing of the MOPW's productive activities through the 
provision of technical advisory services for (i) the spinning-off of such 
activities; (ii) preparing for privatization such activities capable of 
meeting market needs; or (iii) preparing such activities for liquidation. 
4.
Increasing the entrepreneurial, managerial, and professional 
capacity and the environmental awareness of domestic road transport 
entrepreneurs through the carrying out of a comprehensive training 
program for small operators and the completion of impact assessments and 
regular evaluations of such training.
5.
Increasing the entrepreneurial, managerial, and professional 
capacity, and the environmental awareness of private domestic 
construction contractors through the carrying out of a comprehensive 
training program for said contractors and the completion of impact 
assessments and regular evaluations of such training. 
6.
Strengthening the Borrower's trade and transport agenda through the 
establishment of
a facilitation audit under a methodology approved by the 
Association.
Part B:
Organizational Restructuring and Sector Policy
1.
Completing the restructuring of the MOPW through the (i) provision 
Page  11
of technical advisory services for the conception and carrying out of 
transitional arrangements, the development and implementation of new 
management systems and operational procedures at the MOPW and the 
restructuring of the MOPW's affiliated agencies; (ii) carrying out of a 
training program
for the MOPW staff; and (iii) acquisition of equipment 
for the newly decentralized units.
2.
Establishment of the PES as a conduit for capacity building 
initiatives and activities in the MOPW and the MOTM through the (i) 
provision of technical advisory services to the PES in areas including, 
inter alia, transport sector policy, highway management, financial 
management, program and contract management, environment and social 
mitigation, information, public affairs and accounting, development of a 
Management Information System; (ii) provision of technical advisory 
services to the MOTM and the MOPW for the implementation of accounting 
and control systems; (iii) acquisition of goods and equipment, including 
vehicles, office equipment, communications and reproduction equipment, 
and computer software for the PES, the MOTM and the MOPW; (iv) carrying 
out of performance audits and procurement audits; and (v) financing of 
operating costs of the PES.
3.
Development of a sustainable transport sector policy framework 
through the: (i) provision of technical advisory services for the 
carrying out of studies, including studies on road user charges, 
regulation and pricing issues for the trucking and passenger transport 
industries, inter-modal transport coordination, preparation of master 
concession agreements for land transport terminals and development of a 
database for sector monitoring; and (ii) carrying out of a training 
program for the MOTM staff in the areas referred to in paragraph 2 above; 
4.
Restructuring of the MOTM and the MOPW and their affiliated 
agencies through the carrying out of studies to determine a strategy and 
a program for the reinsertion of redundant staff into the labor market 
and for the mitigation of any social costs, satisfactory to the 
Association.
Part C:
Environmental Protection
1.
Strengthening transport sector environmental performance through 
the (i) provision of technical advisory services for the systematic 
assessment of sector investment programs in the MOTM and the MOPW to 
ensure that they meet national environmental regulations and for the 
development of a monitoring system for environmental performance; and 
(ii) carrying out of a training program for the MOTM and the MOPW staff 
in the area of environmental regulations.
2.
Development of a strategy on natural catastrophe prevention and 
mitigation through the provision of technical advisory services for the 
carrying out of studies on preventive measures, the establishment of a 
database on natural disasters, the setting up of early warning and alert 
systems with national coverage, the upgrading and expansion of data 
collection coverage, and the improvement of data analysis methods.
3.
Strengthening emergency coastal protection to preserve economic and 
social activities in Toamasina and Morondava through the (i) carrying out 
of protective construction work to ensure conservation of the sites and 
maintenance of threatened activities; and (ii) provision of technical 
advisory services for the improvement of coastal and environmental 
protection and preparation of engineering designs and supervision of 
works.
4.
Preparation of an action plan to ensure that the Borrower's main 
ports conform to the requirements of the MARPOL and OPRC Conventions 
through the (i) provision of technical advisory services; and (ii) 
carrying out of a training program for MOTM staff.
Page  12
5.
Carrying out of a pilot operation in the port of Tolanaro for the 
removal of shipwrecks and the subsequent disposal of wreckage materials 
in accordance with sound environmental guidelines. 
6.
Strengthening emergency reserves for mitigating natural 
catastrophes through the acquisition of prefabricated metallic bridges 
and other temporary structures.
Part D:
Improvement of Economic Infrastructure
1.
Rehabilitation and other improvement works in the ports of Toliara 
and Mahajanga and the rivers Tsiribihina and Sofia as a pilot operation 
for the improvement of river navigation and cargo transfer facilities. 
2.
Carrying out of road works, including periodic maintenance, on 
about 530 km of national roads, including RN 25/45, RN 6, RN 34 and RN 
44/3a.
3.
Carrying out of infrastructure feasibility studies for selected 
tourist ports, for the port of Toamasina, for maritime signaling, for the 
rehabilitation of national roads, for the improvement of rural roads, and 
for the improvement of railways and secondary and tertiary airports 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
4.
Supervision of civil works for roads, rivers, and ports under the 
Project through the provision of technical advisory services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, contracts 
for goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each and 
contracts for works shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for civil works for port rehabilitation under Part D of the 
Project and for the removal of shipwrecks in Tolianaro under Part C of 
the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
Page  13
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Two-stage Bidding Procedure
The bidding procedure for works to be procured shall be carried out 
in two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for (i) each contract for 
works; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(e)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic 
Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
for contracts, the updated procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association from 
time to time, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more and with respect to each contract for 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for national shopping 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under national 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received from at least three suppliers;
Page  14
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
national shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The shortlist of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for financial audit estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  15
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but 
less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to amendments to contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms and individual consultants which increase the 
original value of the contracts to the equivalent of $100,000 or more for 
consulting firms or to the equivalent of $30,000 or more for individual 
consultants, the procedures set forth in paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in  Supplemental Letter No. 2, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
not amend the Project Implementation Plan or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will 
materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project or the 
objectives thereof; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association on or about December 31 and 
June 30, respectively, semiannual reports integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
Page  16
following such date; 
(d)
carry out, jointly with the Association on July 31 and 
January 31 of each year or such later dates as shall be agreed upon with 
the Association, semiannual reviews of the procurement activities during 
the implementation of the Project;
(e)
carry out, jointly with the Association, no later than 
eighteen (18) months after Effectiveness Date, a midterm review which 
shall (i) assess the overall progress in the implementation of the 
Project; and (ii) review the outcomes of the implementation of the sector 
reform program; and
(f)
based on the reviews referred to in paragraphs (d) and (e) 
of this Schedule, prepare a revised action plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the further implementation of the Project and thereafter 
implement such action plan.
2.
The Borrower shall have prepared the new regulations on autonomous 
ports fifteen months after the Effectiveness Date.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $1,900,000 in respect of the Special Account for the MOTM and 
$2,600,000 in respect of the Special Account for the MOPW, to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect of the 
Special Account for the MOTM, and an amount equivalent to $1,300,000 
until (i) in respect of Special Account for the MOTM, the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,600,000; and (ii) in respect of the 
Special Account for MOPW, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
10,600,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the respective Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
respective Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
Page  17
the respective Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Accounts, 
the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association 
requests for deposits into the respective Special 
Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the respective Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the 
respective Special Accounts for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the 
Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the respective Special Accounts minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
Page  18
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of any Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or 
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account in question (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b), and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
