                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32507

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (CPL-40420 SCL-4042A SCPD-4042S TF-29285)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$99.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

FOR EAST JAVA AND EAST NUSA TENGGARA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective November 11, 2004)

                           Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (IDR)
                                 IDR 1.0 = US$ .0001(at Closing, 2004)
                                 US$ 1.0 = Rupiah 2,331         (at Appraisal, 1996)
                                              Rupiah 14,900    (at Loan Amendment, 1998)
                                              Rupiah 7,706     (at MTR, 1999)
                                              Rupiah 9,412      (at Closing, 2004)

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                 April 1 - March 31 (up to the end of year 2001)
                   January 1-December 31 (from year 2001)

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CPCU          -   Central Program Coordination Unit, Jakarta
DIKDASMEN     -   MONE Secondary and Basic Education Directorate
MGMP          -   Subject Teacher Forum
MOA           -   Memorandum of Agreement
MOEC          -   Ministry of Education and Culture (prior to 2001)
MONE          -   Ministry of National Education (post 2001)
NEM           -   National Examination
PKG           -   Peer Inservice Teacher Training Program
PKG-SJ        -   Peer Inservice Teacher Training Program for
                  schools in rural-remote areas
PPIU          -   Provincial Project Implementation Unit
SGP           -   Scholarships and Grants Program
SUSENAS       -   National Socioeconomic Survey



                         Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                      Country Director:      Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                       Sector Manager:       Christopher J. Thomas EASHD
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Susiana Iskandar, EASHD

                                         INDONESIA
EAST JAVA AND EAST NUSA TENGGARA JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                             27

Project ID: P037097                                                  Project Name: EAST JAVA & NTT JR. SECONDARY
                                                                     EDUC.
Team Leader: Susiana Iskandar                                        TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: EAST JAVA & NTT JR. SECONDARY EDUC.                      L/C/TF Number: CPL-40420; SCL-4042A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-4042S; TF-29285
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (70%); Tertiary education (25%); Central
                            government administration (3%); Sub-national government
                            administration (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Social
                            analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/26/1995                                     Effective: 10/16/1996                10/16/1996
     Appraisal: 04/03/1996                                         MTR: 10/04/1999                  10/04/1999
      Approval: 06/18/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION (MONE)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Christopher J. Thomas                          Samuel Lieberman
Team Leader at ICR:             Susiana Iskandar                               Donald B. Hamilton
ICR Primary Author:             Robert L. McGough; Titie
                                Hadiyati


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to improve the quality and coverage of junior secondary education
in its provinces of East Java and East Nusa Tenggara, through the expansion of access to junior secondary
education in a cost-effective and equitable way, the improvement of teaching at junior secondary schools,
and the strengthening of the management capacity at all levels of the education system.

The objective is consistent with the Government's goal of nine years of basic education for at least 80
percent of the age cohort by 2004. The objective is also fully consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The project design is focused on the decentralization of project management
and the improvement of quality and access in schools that serve rural, poor communities. The project is
focused on junior secondary education in two provinces in eastern Indonesia: East Java and East Nusa
Tenggara. Concurrently, the Bank financed two additional Loans (4062-IND and 4095-IND) with the
same objectives for junior secondary education covering nine provinces. In the latter half of the project
implementation period these three projects were supervised and evaluated jointly. The ICRs for each project
therefore share much common text.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objective did not change during implementation.


3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objective, the project was designed to: (a) expand access to junior secondary education in a
cost-effective and equitable way; (b) improve the teaching of junior secondary education; and (c) strengthen
the management capacity at all levels of the education system. It also strengthened project management.
The project components were reasonably related to the planned achievement of the objectives and to the
administrative and financial management capacity of the implementing agency. The original components
adequately reflected lessons learned in prior projects in the country/sector.

Component 1 ­ Expand Access (US$84.3million). To improve access to junior secondary education, the
project would support: (a) new schools in underserved rural areas; (b) expand the out-of-school
equivalency program; (c) assist communities to construct teacher and student accommodation in rural areas
and provide contract teachers for rural areas, (d) finance scholarships for poor students; and (e) provide
parents with information about how to take advantage of the benefits of junior secondary schooling.

Component 2 ­ Improve Quality (US$31.6million).               To improve the quality of junior secondary
education, the project would: (a) provide in-service and upgrading training programs to teachers to
strengthen teachers' subject-matter knowledge and pedagogical skills, and support measures to bring
qualified teachers to rural areas; (b) provide new teaching rooms, library books, educational equipment and
materials and science teaching aids; (c) support school level initiatives to improve quality; and (d) develop
tests, examinations and assessment systems. Interventions were aimed at public and private schools
(including madrasahs) in poor communities to encourage continued private sector participation in the
provision of education and to reduce inequity in the project provinces.

Component 3 ­ Strengthen Education Management (US$6.2million). This component would: (a) train
school principals and other administrators in school management and providing pedagogical support to
teachers; and (b) develop management and data analysis capacity for district and provincial staff to
effectively handle increased responsibilities for education planning and management.



                                                     - 2 -

Component 4 ­ Support Project Management (US$3.4million). This component was designed to
strengthen the institutional capacities of project management at the province, district and Directorate of
Secondary Education at the national level, and would contribute to operational costs of project
management.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project was responsive to changing needs during the economic crisis. At the time of the crisis,
enrollment and retention targets were modified to meet those changing needs. Government and Bank
priority in 1997/98 was to reduce the impact of the crisis on education for the increasing number of poor
households and communities. Emphasis, in the short term, was placed on maintaining enrollment and
transition rates in basic education, preventing deterioration of quality in primary and junior secondary
schools, and increasing local government efficiency.

Through a Memorandum of the President to the Board, dated June 18, 1998, a new category was added to
the project in order to allocate funds to the Government's national Scholarship and Grants Program (SGP).
The SGP was set up as one of several social safety net programs to help alleviate the impact of the crisis.
The SGP was supported by a number of bilateral and multilateral donors. The Bank restructured six Loans
to re-allocate funds to support the SGP. This project (Loan 4042-IND) contributed US$36,098,740 to the
SGP, of which US$22,356,102 was for scholarships to students from poor households and US$13,742,638
was for grants to schools in poor communities for basic operating costs. The SGP was managed separately
and Government established an independent monitoring unit to ensure transparency. A separate completion
report was prepared for the SGP.

At Mid Term Review (November 1999) enrollment and retention targets were adjusted and a unified project
description was prepared covering all three junior secondary education loans. Project components were
more specifically focused on poverty and aimed to: (a) maintain enrollments at 1997 levels and increase
access in poor, rural communities; (b) improve the quality of public and private junior secondary schools
especially in poor, rural communities; and (c) strengthen the management of the education system at all
levels, especially for district and school managers, to retain students in school by implementing pro-poor
strategies.

In addition to the impact of the economic crisis of the 1990s, the decentralization laws of 2001 affected the
project by giving responsibilities for basic service delivery to district governments. This influenced the
Ministry of National Education's (MONE) decision to introduce school based management systems, and to
define roles and responsibilities for project inputs through a Memorandum of Agreement with each
beneficiary district government. To support this concept, the project financed the provision of
proposal-based grant systems, and management training for school principals and district level education
teams. Design changes made during implementation are reflected in the amendments to the Loan
Agreement.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A Quality of Supervision Assessment (QAG), dated July 1999, assessed project design, readiness for
implementation and borrower commitment. It assessed all as satisfactory at entry. This assessment was
conducted in a way that was consistent with the Bank's required safeguard policies.          It is also rated
satisfactory by the ICR team.




                                                     - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the project's objectives was satisfactory. Adjustments to targets were made, and agreed
upon by the Bank, at the time of the crisis, to maintain enrollment rates for junior secondary education at
pre 1997 levels, and to contain dropouts at or below present levels.

l Nationally enrollments show an increase over 1997 levels and a decrease in dropouts. Enrollments
     in junior secondary enrollments increased by 3 percent from 2,667,022 to 2,815,690 between 1997 and
     2004; and the numbers of junior secondary students completing grade 9 increased by 35 percent from
     1,774,681 to 2,398,200 between 1997 and 2004. (Data source: MONE 2004. MONE collects no
     separate data on drop outs, and uses completion data as a proxy. It should be noted also that after
     decentralization MONE found it more difficult to collect data regularly from districts).

     Trend data using Susenas sources (Education Sector Review 2004) indicate that the share of the
     population having completed junior secondary has been rising overall since 1995, and that the rate of
     increase is higher for rural areas than for urban areas, reducing the gap between rural and urban
     participation in junior secondary education. In 1995, gross enrollment was 66 percent and by 2002, it
     was 80 percent. In the same period, the net enrollment increased by 10 percentage points - from 51
     percent to 62.7 percent. Net enrollments in rural areas increased from 42.65 to 54.3 percent, and in
     urban areas from 66.51 to 71.90 percent.

     Use of new classroom capacity in all four project provinces exceeded 100 percent by the completion of
     the project. Enrollments exceeded new capacity in many schools.

l There was no progress in average test scores for mathematics and language across the provinces
     included in this project. The average test score in language were 5.63 in 1997 and 5.52 in 2003; the
     average score in mathematics was 5.58 in 1997 and 4.45 in 2003.

     Findings from project monitoring reports indicate that quality inputs (books, instructional materials,
     teacher and school principal training) are having a positive impact on teaching and learning in project
     schools. School principals are providing a more supportive environment for teaching and learning
     (better resourced schools and increased professional development for teachers), teachers are using
     more varied teaching methods using additional teaching resource materials, and students are being
     exposed to a greater variety of learning experiences such as more independent and group research and
     more interactive learning.

l Implementation annually of agreed work programs in the project provinces averaged above 80
     percent This assessment is based on Bank and Government annual reviews of project work plan
     outputs and budgets spent.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 ­ Expand Access.

The project supported the construction of 171 (61% of target) new rural schools and added 610 (212% of
target) new classrooms to existing rural schools. This amounted to the establishment of 24,520 and 24,040
student places, respectively, for a total of 48,560 student places established during the project. School
monitoring reports have found that, by the completion of the project, there was a 108% (133% of target)
utilization rate, above the design capacity, of the newly established schools and classrooms.



                                                      - 4 -

Complete School Approach. As a framework for all project activities, the project supported the use of a
complete school approach for new school development. This holistic approach featured the use of an
agreed upon set of activities (with assigned responsibilities) that must take place, according to an agreed
upon schedule, before a school could be established and brought on-line as a registered institution. This
innovative approach was a feature of all nine of the funded primary and junior secondary education
projects (6 Bank and 3 ADB), and for this reason, the impact of this approach has been significant,
resulting in it becoming national policy of the MONE.

Block Grant. Initially the project sought to use a centralized method for contracting to support the
implementation of the complete school approach.           This method proved to be difficult to implement
effectively. As a result, the project decided to move to a more decentralized approach using the block grant
method of school construction. This approach proved to be much more effective than the centralized
method used previously. In this approach, the construction was managed by school committees and carried
out by local workers. This work was facilitated and supervised by construction management consultants
provided by the project. Provincial/central and district government collaborated to ensure all inputs were in
place by the time the school was opened (buildings and furniture, teachers appointed, students enrolled,
books, supplies, aids and equipment are in place, and operational and maintenance costs are provided).
Through a Memorandum of Agreement with MONE, district governments agreed to provide qualified
school personnel including the school principal and administrative staff, and agreed to provide operational
costs after the first six months.

The project has demonstrated that there are many advantages to the use of this approach: (a) this model
ensured that a full package of inputs would be in place before the school opened and that sustainability of
project inputs was protected; (b) it was found that construction and provision of physical inputs are more
cost effective than the approaches previously utilized by MONE; (c) many schools benefited from
additional contributions from the community; (d) quality of construction in most cases was found to be
better than in the project's earlier contracting period; (e) schools became more attractive, as the community
applied its own aesthetic (use of a wider range of paint colors and design features, and the establishment of
attractive gardens); (f) the model improved efficiency in the delivery of a fully operational school. For
example, using the block grant mechanism, it was likely that a new school would be operational in less than
six months after construction was completed, as compared to a minimum of two years under the previous
approaches used; (g) there was also a strong sense of community ownership of the process and outcome;
and (h) local governments in many cases provided supplementary funding for additional classrooms to
accommodate more students, or to provide roads for easier access to the school location.

Other Outputs. The project also established 50 new teacher housing units and 88 new school principal
housing units (combined, 93% of original target). The project also supported the contracting of 275 (183%
of target) specialist subject teachers for underserved schools.

The funding available to the civil works component changed considerably over the project period. The
value of the rupiah to the US dollar at project appraisal was Rp 2,331. By 1998 it was Rp 14,900.
Decisions were made to reallocate the benefits of the large influx of funds from the civil works (building
new schools) category to reallocate funds for additional scholarships and grants through the SGP; and to
increase the number of additional classrooms at existing schools. About 400,000 poor students were also
provided with scholarships for two or three years period. The number of project provided scholarships was
significantly more than the original target (35,350 scholarships). This enabled the scholarship program to
make a substantially higher than expected impact on school retention of students from poor families.




                                                      - 5 -

In another program that targeted hard-to-reach students, more than 56,800 instructional modules were
provided, and about 4,557 (113% of target) tutors were trained in their use.

This component met or exceeded its targets, and introduced innovative and more efficient models for
establishing new schools. It is rated as satisfactory.

Component 2 ­ Improve Quality.

In an effort to improve the quality of junior secondary school services, the project: (a) supported the
training of teachers, school principals and education managers; (b) provided instructional materials and
science and computer equipment, supplementary reading and reference books; (c) developed and piloted an
integrated science curriculum; (d) supported participation in an international program of student
assessment; and (e) designed, developed and delivered training programs for school principals, school
committees and district education staff in school based management and planning for school quality
improvement. By project completion, more than 94 percent (134% of target) of schools received inputs
(books, equipment, and training) and made effective use of them in teaching and learning.

By project completion, all target schools received of the inputs (books, equipment, and training); however
due to inaccurate costing estimates, only 77% of the schools received the inputs in time and the rest were
fulfilled in the following year. It was reported that 82% of the target schools used those inputs adequately.
The project used two approaches for teacher training. By project completion a total 9,635 (78% of target)
teachers were trained. About 6,182 teachers were trained through cluster activity (MGMP) during the first
two years of the project implementation. In this cluster approach, teachers are brought in to a central
location from neighboring schools for training. The mid-term review concluded that the cluster training
approach was not appropriate for this project because the schools established by the project were scattered
in remote-rural areas, and the cluster meetings also included large numbers of non-project schools. At the
mid-term review, it was decided that the project should re-focus teacher training activities to more directly
support teachers in project-targeted schools, and to change the training approach to subject matter training
(PKG-SJ). The teachers were provided with more training days, per teacher, than originally planned.

Communication forums for teachers and school principals were also established at school, district and
provincial levels to share experiences. Facilitators were funded to work directly with teachers in the
classroom and with school principals on quality issues, which led to more changes for better teaching and
learning. The project also developed and delivered training programs for schools principals and district
managers in school based management.

To support the improvement of science curriculum in the project schools, 18 teachers and 5,874 students
participated in an integrated science curriculum development project. Outputs from this effort were: (a)
new curriculum for science teaching; (b) new and revised teaching learning materials; (c) new models for
assessing learning; and (d) lists of simple equipment to support the planned teaching and learning. The
project's schools also participated in an international program of student assessment. During the project,
(a) 979 sets of teaching aids were supplied to teachers; (b) 843 sets of office equipment were provided to
schools; and (c) about 1100 schools received sets of books, based on an established ratio of books to
enrolled students.

The matching grant mechanism for school quality improvement based on school plans became problematic
when Government's development budgets were not released on time. Schools often found that the price of
goods and services had changed between the time of preparing a proposal and eventually receiving the
goods, or that the goods were no longer available. It took time for schools to learn how to match the books


                                                      - 6 -

and equipment they ordered with actual needs or teachers' ability to make effective use of them. Based on
quality assurance monitoring reports, schools showed steady improvement in use of matching grant funds
for school quality improvement as they gained more experience with the required planning and procurement
processes.

Improving the quality of teaching and increasing learning outcomes will continue to be a major challenge
for schools. Within the framework of decentralization, MONE will continue to channel resources to the
neediest schools where learning outcomes are low and continue to support districts to make schools more
effective and capable of achieving national goals for quality graduates.

The component met its targets and was able to introduce a `whole school development' approach to ensure
that quality inputs (books, materials, equipment, teacher and school principal training) had maximum
impact on school performance. This approach was new and was supported by a proposal based grant
mechanism for schools. This component is rated satisfactory.

Component 3 ­ Strengthen Management Capacity. To strengthen the management capacity of both
administrators and district officers, about 7,000 school principals were trained in school based management
using modules developed by the project. To strengthen the management of school maintenance, 212 school
principals were trained in this area. To better meet the emerging need for improved management of
information, selected project school principals and district education managers were trained in the
development and use of management information systems (MIS). About 2,240 school principals were also
supported, by the project, to participate in regular interschool forums.

The project's matching grant program gave opportunities to school principals and school committees to
practice school-based quality improvement planning and management. The project promoted the formation
of school committees. These committees have gained experience in creating school profiles and using
analysis of information to prepare and carry out school development plans. School committees
demonstrated that they could manage relatively large sums of money in a transparent and accountable
manner. This has generated enthusiasm and increased participation by parents and the community in school
affairs.

Through the project's block grant mechanism for new school units, the district governments developed
capacity in planning, supervising, financing and operating the school system. District governments made
decisions on locations of new schools based on enrollment data and catchment area, in planning
supplementary inputs to provide operating funds and teacher placement, and choosing schools to receive
matching grants based on poverty targeting criteria. Before government decentralization, these activities
were the responsibility of the central and provincial governments. Technical assistance and training
provided by the project, assisted districts to undertake these new activities. The above mentioned project
experience provides a sound basis for future school improvement planning by district governments.

The Memorandum of Agreement between central and district governments setting obligations for use of
central development funds for school or district grants provides a sound foundation for school and district
government accountability. The willingness of the central government to apply sanctions to both provinces
(East Java and East Nusa Tenggra) for poor governance and non-compliance with transparency procedures
was an effective lesson in accountability.

About 70% of the schools, receiving project inputs, were able to provide effective professional and physical
support to student learning as indicated by: (i) the principals hold regular meeting with teachers; (ii)
meeting between school management team and school committee held regularly; and (iii) matching fund


                                                      - 7 -

grant funds used appropriately according to school needs. In most cases, the remaining 30% of the schools
failed in either conducting meetings with school committee and/or in identifying the top priority needs to be
funded by the matching grants. This component is rated satisfactory.

Component 4. Strengthen project management.

The project provided long term and short term consultant services to assist with project monitoring,
evaluation and quality assurance, construction, procurement and finance. It provided support for project
planning, coordination and monitoring; and for project review meetings three times per year at district,
provincial and national levels. It carried out formative and summative monitoring of project performance.

National and provincial level teams gained experience in developing and implementing quality assurance
programs. Quality assurance teams monitored the rapid and extensive implementation of the block grant
mechanisms for new schools and matching grants for school quality improvement. These teams also
monitored quality inputs and made constant adjustments and improvements in program delivery according
to the monitoring and evaluation findings - such as the change to proposal based funding to consolidate
inputs under school management and changes to more demand driven approaches to teacher training
matched to school needs. Over 90 percent of project annual work plans were implemented and budgets
disbursed. This component is rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n/a

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Increased Institutional Capacity. In the provinces covered by this project, most of the need for additional
capacity is found in rural, disadvantaged areas where there are many unmet needs, and in urban areas
where there is a trend toward over-enrollment. As this project was focused to serve students in those areas,
it is easily seen that the project produced more institutional capacity to meet those needs. This is evidenced
by the establishment of 48,560 new student places through the project. This increase in student access to
services should improve facility utilization rates and teacher/student/parent satisfaction rates.

Policy Reform (Section 10). The Borrower has also adopted a number of suggested sector policy reforms
including the use of: (a) block grant funding; (b) scholarship programs for poor students; (c) contract
teachers to provide short-term relief of teacher shortages; (d) direct financing of grants and scholarships to
schools and students, respectively; and (e) government-financed, community-led school rehabilitation
programs. These important reforms signal a decision by the Government to manage the education sector
differently than it has in the past. It is expected that additional policy reforms, brought forth by the other
eight projects, will also add to the overall package of reforms for the sector.

Focus on Quality. The project has also seen the Government officially establish quality as a major goal in
the sector. This has resulted in a significant refinement of basic education curricula and pedagogy. The
subsector now has new curricula (introduced before and during the project, but refined and fully introduced
during the project period). The result has been positive and well received by the schools, parents, and
teachers. Recent field surveys (documented by the project monitoring reports 2004) have also noted that
activity-oriented teaching methodologies, introduced by the project, are well received by teachers and are
effective and relevant to students.      MONE has moved to institutionalize the use of activity-oriented



                                                      - 8 -

teaching methodologies nation-wide. Increased availability in rural schools of textbooks, reading and
reference material and science equipment, accompanied by teacher training in the core subjects, had a
positive impact on the teaching and learning processes in these schools. Based on an independent project
quality assurance study on the impact of teacher training, the following changes were noted within the
project's target schools: (a) there was an improved school management that provided an environment
conducive to learning; (b) teachers and students used instructional materials more often; (c) the wider range
of teaching methods worked more effectively; and (d) students worked more often on group assignments
using library reference materials and science equipment.

To further support the focus on quality, MONE has increased the requirements for teacher and manager
certification. Concurrent to this effort, the project has supported the training of 9,635 junior secondary
education teachers in provinces served by the project. With these inputs, there have been substantial
improvements in the internal efficiency of both primary and junior secondary education. These and other
efficiency improvements are documented in Annex 1.

Education Management. With the project supporting training of large numbers of principals and
education officers (see component 3), there has also been a significant improvement in the quality of
managers and key decision-makers in the project's targeted provinces since the baseline year (1998).
MONE has also moved to fill most of its management and other key positions with experienced and well
trained staff. Within the ministry, examples may be seen at all levels in primary and junior secondary
education. The project's impact on institutional impact is rated as substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Asia economic crisis had a deeper and longer impact on Indonesia than elsewhere in the region and
there was a dramatic increase in the number of poor households. In response, Government changed its goal
of nine years of basic education for at least 80 percent of the age cohort by 2004 to maintaining enrolments
at pre-1997 levels, retaining students in school and preventing deterioration of school quality. The revised
targets were met and exceeded during the project period.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Decentralization Law (No. 22 of 1999) and the Fiscal Autonomy Law (No. 25 of 1999) strengthened
the role of district governments and weakened that of the provincial governments. This was a national
government project, implemented by provinces. As such there was some tension in the early stages of
decentralization between district and provincial governments about roles and responsibilities, resource
allocations and project monitoring functions. MONE responded by formalizing agreements with district
governments on use of project funds and providing training for district education teams in school based
management systems. The Provincial Education Office, as a deconcentrated arm of MONE, continued to
carry out training and monitoring activities on behalf of MONE. Procedures and funding mechanisms set
up under the project for block grants and matching grants to districts and schools have been incorporated
into national policies and guidelines for use of national development funds supporting districts' basic
education programs.

The national development budget system (DIP) remained a powerful force affecting implementation. In
2001, for example, the budget was released only in October for the financial year beginning in January.
This problem occurred to some degree each year. At the provincial level, it meant that staff did not have the
resources to carry out the intensity of supervision needed or, to provide training and workshops at timely
points in the work program.



                                                     - 9 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MONE through its Directorate of Secondary and Basic Education (DIKDASMEN) was an effective
implementing agency. MONE set up a Central Project Coordination Unit within line management at
DIKDASMEN and complemented staffing with long-term national and international technical assistance
supported by the project. The project also supported technical assistance in financial management,
procurement and construction supervision at provincial implementing units. Project implementation cut
across a uniquely difficult time in Indonesia's history. MONE/DIKDASMEN was responsive to the
changing environment especially at the time of decentralization when the project took a lead role in
developing guidelines for block grant fund flows, procedures for implementing block grant mechanisms and
monitoring implementation of school and districts programs using project funds. These are now part of the
national policy guidelines for district governments' use of central government funds.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Estimated total project costs at Appraisal were US$146.4 million. Government contribution was US$45.4
million equivalent and the Loan was US$99 million. At project closing US$87,266,978.39 of the Loan had
been disbursed.

At Appraisal the exchange rate was calculated at Rupiah 2,330. By 1997/88 the exchange rate was Rupiah
14,900 and at project closing it was Rupiah 9,412. The flood of rupiah during the period of the economic
crisis allowed transfers to government's SGP, restructuring of the project and, at the request of the
Ministry of Finance, cancellations of a portion of the Loan. Cancellations to project activities were made in
both provinces due to misprocurement. Government repaid the value of the goods and services procurement
(equipment and education material; furniture and consultants) of amounts US$1,300,256.62 (East Nusa
Tenggara) and two amounts US$2,334,269.34 and US$269,309.50 in East Java. The project closed
activities 2003 in East Nusa Tenggara because of consistently poor governance. As stated in the letters of
the Country Director to the Government dated July 19, 1999 and October 12, 2001, the misprocurement
cases in East Java and East Nusa Tenggara provinces were due to irregularities in the procurement process
of the new school construction in the first year of the project implementation (FY 1997/1998). None of 137
contracts packages in East Java and 159 contract packages in East Nusa Tenggara (for the procurement of
civil works; equipment and education materials; furniture and consultants in PPIUs) were advertised in a
national newspaper as required by the Bank's guidelines, instead a single advertisement was places in the
local newspaper with the limited circulation in several districts in respective provinces. Loan cancellations
are indicated below.

  Project costs (USD equivalent)                         Government                    Loan               Date
  Appraisal                                               45.4 million          99 million
  - Cancellation - misprocurement                                            3,634,525.96         July 19, 1999
  - Cancellation - misprocurement                                              269,369.50      October 12, 2001
  - Cancellation - Gov's request                                             3,496,104.54          May 4, 2004
  Total cancellations                                                        7,390,000.00
  Undisbursed balance at project closing                                     4,333,021.61
  Project closing/final disbursement                                        87,266,978.39



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospect for sustainability of project achievements is likely.       Government policies and strategies
continue to target underserved communities in rural areas in an effort to close the participation gap between
rural and urban areas in junior secondary education, and to achieve national goals for achievement of nine


                                                     - 10 -

year basic education for all. Many of the strategies and mechanisms applied under the project continue to
be supported through national policy reform. These include the whole school approach to grants to
underserved communities for new schools; and the proposal-based grants to schools for quality
improvement. Scholarships and grants to schools remain important government strategies to attract and
retain students from poor households in junior secondary education. After SGP completion the scope of the
scholarships program was retained at pre-1997 levels and targeted to the most needy. As a result of the
government's     positive experience with the independent monitoring unit for the SGP, MONE has
established a similar unit to provide independent oversight of implementation of centrally funded projects in
districts (new schools, grants for quality improvement, contract teachers and training of school
communities in school based management).

MONE will need to continue to monitor its investments at district level to ensure that district governments
continue to provide technical and financial support to new schools especially those that were established
late in the project. Recent findings on education financing (Education Sector Review 2004) raises concerns
about whether budgets for schools are sufficient to cover schools' basic operation costs, let alone to
support their efforts to improve quality. Many junior and senior secondary schools now receive 50 percent
or less than their pre-decentralization budgets. District governments need to continue to provide adequate
operational budget allocations to all schools, but especially to new schools that may need additional support
for the first four to five years of operation to cover start up costs as each new class level is added.
Establishing education financing levels appropriate to achieving national goals will need to be addressed at
the highest levels of national government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
National policies and procedures are in place for recruitment of contract teachers, grants to communities to
establish new schools in underserved rural areas, and grants to schools for quality improvement, and of
course, the criteria for targeting scholarships and school grants to students in poor communities.
Guidelines and manuals developed under the project for preparing funding proposals, for community
contracting of school construction, and for school management boards and their training have been updated
and are being used on a national scale for development projects financed from the central budgets. The
institutional capacities (technical and organizational) that the MONE and provincial teams developed under
the projects are being used now through management of central government funded projects. District
governments are responsible for schools that were beneficiaries of project inputs and are being held
accountable for project investments through a Memorandum of Agreement with MONE that covers the
responsibilities of district government for the next 20 years in regard to beneficiaries of centrally funded
activities. MONE has set up an independent monitoring unit to check progress of district governments' in
meeting their obligations to school funded by the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank provided adequate technical and financial resources for project preparation and the Borrower's
project preparation was supported by a PHRD grant for technical assistance. The Bank worked with the
Borrower to build a more participatory approach to project preparation by involving a wide range of
stakeholders especially at provincial level, where implementation was to be managed. Lessons learnt from
previous projects in the sector were incorporated into project design. The Bank Team's participation in
project identification, project preparation and project negotiations leading to Bank approval of the loan is
rated as satisfactory.




                                                     - 11 -

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision was rated as satisfactory by a Quality of Supervision Assessment (2001) with a high
rating for development impact. Project teams from the Bank and Borrower were presented with the Bank
President's Award for Excellence in 1999 for the projects' proactive restructuring to support the SGP.

The Bank teams and the Borrower built a strong partnership and a shared vision. The shifting of task
management to Jakarta made for better understanding of issues and a closer working relationship with the
government. The packaging of all three junior secondary educations under a unified project description and
one team management led to more efficient supervision and a closer focus on development goals.
Procurement monitoring and good governance were the most demanding aspects of project supervision.
Remedies were applied to both project provinces for lack of transparency and misprocurement in
construction contracts. Bank participation in project supervision is rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The World Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The MOEC/MONE preparation teams worked in a highly participatory manner with the Bank and with
provinces and districts in project design and preparation for implementation. This work benefited from the
PHRD grant to carry out a number of national studies regarding policy implementation as well as project
specific studies. Lessons learnt from other Bank supported projects contributed insights to project design
and many staff preparing the project had participated in implementation of other Bank projects in the
sector. The Borrower's participation in project preparation is rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The central government had long experience of Bank lending in the sector and was experienced with Bank
lending procedures. The greatest impediment to project implementation was the delay in Government's
development budget release to line agencies which affects all sectors, not only education. The impact of this
on project activities meant delays in training and workshops and late disbursements in any financial year.
The Borrower's participation in the implementation of the project is rated as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
MONE through DIKDASMEN was characterized by an excellent management style. Clear job descriptions
and accountability lines for the project coordination unit were established so that staff and counterpart
consultants worked as a team. Regular meetings were held of project staff and senior management in
MONE/DIKDASMEN to address issues arising from the rapidly changing economic and governance
environment. Problems were addressed creatively: such as, addressing the lack of impact of separate
project inputs by `packaging inputs' for proposal based grants to districts and to schools ­ the new
complete school model and the whole school quality improvement model. These were innovations in
Indonesia, established under the project and now national policy. Procedures for flow of funds for grants
and scholarships directly to schools were innovations in Indonesia and are now used in MONE's regular
programs. The overall performance of MONE as the implementing agency was highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. Most physical and financial targets were met and
the overall project development objective was achieved despite the really difficult environment in which the
project was implemented, from the economic and political crises, to decentralization and district autonomy.




                                                   - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned from the project are:

Design

1.   When school communities manage resources they are likely to be used more efficiently and lead to
     greater long term participation in school development (Section 4.2, Block Grants);
2.   Improving learning outcomes is complex and teacher training on its own will not bring it about
     (Section 4.2);
3.   Within the framework of decentralization, Central Government (MONE) has a role in targeting
     strategies to address the education needs of the poorest communities if national goals for basic
     education are to be achieved (Section 4.5);
4.   During times of financial crisis, or political change, projects should be designed with a view toward
     maximum flexibility, and the potential for rapid restructuring as the need arises Section 7.1);
5.   There are advantages in cost effectiveness and efficiency when several similar projects are funded
     concurrently, with similar PDOs and KPIs, and managed as a single program rather than as separate
     projects (Section 7.2);
6.   Baseline data should always be collected, documented in the PAD, and agreed upon during project
     preparation (Section 7.1);
7.   The use of contract teachers has proven to be a viable management option to address issues of
     temporary teacher shortage and the need to introduce increased flexibility into the civil service
     (Section 4.5).

Management

1.   The establishment of a strongly staffed, and well managed project implementation unit (PIU) must be
     considered a key contributing factor to the successful implementation of any project (Sections 5.3
     and 7.6);
2.   The matching grant mechanism for school quality improvement based on school plans became
     problematic when Government's development budgets were not released on time. Schools often found
     that the price of goods and services had changed between the time of preparing a proposal and
     eventually receiving the goods or that the goods were no longer available. It took time for schools to
     learn how to match the books and equipment they ordered with actual student needs and the teachers'
     ability to make effective use of them (Section 4.2 and 7.5);
3.   Systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is critical to the success of a project with widely
     dispersed project activities and sites (Section (5.3);
4.   Independent monitoring of programs, especially those targeting poor communities and households,
     ensures that leakage is reduced, and that targeted groups benefit as planned. Government on roles
     and responsibilities for grant fund management were a valuable tool for ensuring accountability for
     sustaining benefits of project inputs (Section 6.0).

Mapping

1.   For SGP, expansion of access and other poverty-alleviation programs, Geographical targeting of
     services should be done on the basis of poverty. Estimates should be made down to the village level.
     Mapping is an excellent technique to support this process, but there should be a pre-commitment to



                                                    - 13 -

      update the "map" each year - thereby overcoming the static nature of most poverty map schemes
      (Section 4.2);
2.    School mapping can be useful to education agencies at all levels. For instance, school mapping may
      be used to provide a better understanding of: (a) inequities in resource allocations between
      geographical areas; (b) physical limitations to school access (i.e. lack of roads, infrastructure,
      services); (c) imbalances in district or provincial education officer assignments for school oversight;
      (d) preferred locations for new school establishment, based on needs; (e) preferred locations for
      school expansion to meet increasing enrollment demand; and (f) geographic, economic, cultural, and
      social dimensions required in monitoring and evaluation schemes, where there is a need to make
      comparisons between schools, districts and provinces (Section 4.2).

Scholarship Grants Program (SGP)

1.    It is clear, during the financial crisis, that the dropout rate has been low in primary school and that
      the transition to junior secondary school is the most important attrition point in the system,
      particularly for the poor. This suggests that the program was most effective in its support of the
      critical transition from primary to junior secondary education. This finding would suggest that: (a)
      there can be some narrowly targeted scholarships for the poorest kids at the primary level, but the
      bulk of the program should be more broadly focused on junior secondary school; (b) if scholarships
      are given to students starting in primary school then some continuity across school levels must be
      assured (e.g. changing the SGP school-level "entitlement" to an individual-level entitlement); (c) the
      pool of candidates for grade 7 scholarships has to be taken from children who complete primary
      school not from those who are already enrolled in grade 7; and (d) as a result of the latter, selection
      of candidates should be done on the basis of an application process (Section 4.2).


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The project made an important contribution to achieving government's nine year basic education goals. The
reallocation of project funds to Government's Scholarships and Grants Program helped support students
and schools in poor communities so that junior secondary enrollments could be maintained and school
quality did not deteriorate. Government decentralization created new political structures and the project
supported MONE in developing district technical teams, school boards of management and the mechanisms
for block grants directly to schools and districts. These formed the basis of new government policies for
school improvement and for targeting poor and rural remote communities.

Implementation was slow in the early years of the project largely because provincial teams were not
experienced in Bank procurement and financial management procedures and needed considerable technical
support. The project provided schools with an environment that is more conducive to learning ­ better
buildings and furniture, textbooks, library books and reference materials, science equipment, teacher
training and improved school management. But improving the quality of teaching and learning was the
most difficult change to bring about. Districts will continue to need support from provincial and central
agencies to achieve better learning outcomes. Government is working on minimum standards for schools
and these will be used to assess school quality needs. Under decentralization arrangements, it is expected
that MONE will continue to provide grants to districts to help them achieve the national access and quality
goals for nine years basic education.

The packaging of the three junior secondary education projects under one umbrella simplified project



                                                       - 14 -

management. This helped to focus efforts on government's overall goal for junior secondary education.
Relationships with the Bank improved after all three junior secondary education projects were under one
task management team relocated to the Jakarta office. Previously, with three separate task managers, all
located in Washington, it often seemed that there were three separate voices providing direction and advice
and problems needing attention could not be solved quickly. For a more in depth discussion, see Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no cofinanciers of the project.

Project preparation was financed by Japan through a PHRD Grant for consultant services and training:
(JPN 29285) effective December 20, 1995, closed on June 30, 1997. The original principal was JPY
25,200,000. At closing on November 25, 1997 the disbursed amount was JPY 22,590,026 with an
undisbursed balance of JPY 2,609,974.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information

Section 4 ­ This project is one of nine concurrent projects in basic education that feature similar principles
in their design. The Borrower is in full accord with these principles, and because of this, the projects, as a
whole, have significant leverage to create institutional development impact in the sector.




                                                     - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



           Indicator/Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:                          Target                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Maintaining national junior secondary Nationally:                            Nationally:
enrollment at pre-crisis (1997) and     Enrollment : 2,667,022 pupils in     Enrollment: 2,815,690 pupils
containing drop-outs.                   1997                                 Graduated: 2,398,200 pupils in 03/04
                                        Graduated: 1,774,681 pupils in
                                        1997


New schools:                            48,560 seats                         50,936 pupils
Utilization of at least 75 percent of   (Total capacity of 171 new schools   (105 % use of total new capacity)
classroom capacity; and                 and 601 new classrooms)
Additional classrooms in existing
schools:                                · East Java: 33,120 seats            · East Java: 35,325 pupils (107 %)
Utilization of at least 75 percent of   · NTT: 12,320 seats                  · NTT: 13,279 pupils (108 %)
classroom capacity                      · NTB: 960 seats                     · NTB: 969 pupils (101 %)
                                        · South Sulawesi: 2160 seats         · South Sulawesi: 1363 pupils (63 %)


Maintaining junior secondary            Enrollment :                         Enrollment:
enrollment at pre-crisis in project     1,217,889 pupils in 1996/1997        2,117,531 pupils in 2003/2004
provinces.                              (EJ = 1,093,445 and NTT = 124,444) (EJ=1,478,989; NTT=150,003;
                                                                             NTB=204,001 and South S =
Maintaining enrollment and                                                   284,538)
containing drop out at pre-crisis levels                                     Enrollment data available for project
in poor, rural and remote schools                                            provinces only.
receiving project inputs.

Increase in schools' average NEM        B.Ind = 5.63 and maths = 5.58 in     B.Ind = 5,52 and maths = 4.45 in
scores for East java and NTT            96/97                                02/03
provinces
Implementation of at least 80 percent   Project implementation rate: 80 %    Project implementation rate: 84 %
of the agreed work programs annually Rate by component:                      Rate by component:
as measured by the physical targets of  · Access = 75 %                      · Access = 96 %
acceptable quality.                     · Quality = 75 %                     · Quality = 72 %
                                        · Edu.Mgmt = 70 %                    · Edu.Mgmt = 84 %
                                        · Project Mgmt = 95 %                · Project Mgmt = 83 %


Outcome / Impact indicators in PSR
                                        Projected in last PSR The revised    Actual/Latest Estimate Based on the
                                        target (MTR) as stated in the PSR by external evaluation report for selected
                                        end of project                       schools as representatives of the
                                                                             programs implemented
100% Inputs arrive complete and on      100%                                77%
time to project schools
70% project schools provide effective 70%                                   84%
professional and physical support to
pupil learning
60% teachers in new schools receiving 60%                                   68 %



                                                      - 16 -

project inputs show improved
classroom behaviors (started in 2003)
80% new schools use project inputs     80%                               72 %
70% new schools provide effective      70%                               84 %
professional & physical support to
pupil learning
Implementation of 95% agreed work      95%                               83 %
plans as measured by physical target &
budget spent


Output Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate


Number of new schools built,           92                                171
equipped, staffed and operating
Increase in gross enrollment rates in  East Java = 72.22 in 1996 / 1997  East Java = 74.91 in 2003 / 2004
project provinces.                     NTT       = 51.10 in 1996 / 1997  NTT       = 61.78 in 2003 / 2004
                                       NTB        = 74.20 in 2000 / 2001 NTB        = 70.64 in 2003 / 2004
                                       South Sul = 65.20 in 2000 / 2001  South Sul = 65.57 in 2003 / 2004
100% new schools have textbooks at     100%                              77%
ratio 1 text per student for each of 8
subjects
100% of contract teachers in new       NA                                NA
schools meet terms of contract
60% project schools show increase in 60%                                 68%
use of teaching aids and library books
80% reading/reference books            80%                               72%
purchased through project are
borrowed
70% of sampled project school          70%                               83%
principals hold regular meetings to
discuss school affairs
70% project schools/ School Principals 70%                               81%
participate in regular interschool
forum.
95% of school proposals allocate funds 95%                               95%
to improve quality as well as for
physical improvement)




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

   Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                        Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                        Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                        US$ million   US$ million

Increasing Access to Junior Secondary Education                84.3         105.7          125
Improving Quality                                              31.6         27.98            89
Strengthening Education Management                              6.2           2.91           47
Support for Project Management                                  3.4           6.05         178


Total Baseline Cost                                          125.5
Price Contingencies                                            20.9
Total Project Costs                                          146.4         142.64            97

Total Financing Required                                       99.0         87.27            88




   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                Procurement      Method
      Expenditure Category             ICB         NCB            Other       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Civil Works                          -            42.3          25.5         -         67.8
                                                    (31.7)        (19.1)                 (50.8)
2. Equipment and educational           8.1           4.0            2.3         -         14.4
    materials                          (8.1)        (3.2)          (1.5)                 (12.8)
3. Library and reading books            -             -            10.0         -         10.0
                                                                   (7.6)                  (7.6)
4. Furniture                            -            7.9            1.5         -          9.4
                                                    (5.6)          (1.0)                  (6.6)
5. Training                             -             -             14          -          14
                                                                    (7)                    (7)
6. Consultant's services and studies    -             -             3.6         -          3.6
                                                                   (3.5)                  (3.5)
7. Contract teachers                    -             -             0.9         -          0.9
                                                                   (0.7)                  (0.7)
8. Scholarships                         -             -            16.6         -         16.6
                                                                   (8.3)                  (8.3)
9. Operating Costs                       -            -             1.7         -          1.7
                                                                   (1.7)                  (1.7)
10. Recurrent Costs                      -            -              -          3.5        3.5
                                                                               (0.0)      (0.0)
11. Land Acquisition                     -            -              -          4.5        4.5
                                                                               (0.0)      (0.0)
Total                                   8.1          54.2          76.1         8.0      146.4
                                       (8.1)        (40.5)        (50.4)       (0.0)     (99.0)



                                                 - 18 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/ Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Procurement
                                                                        1/
                                                              Method
       Expenditure Category                                                   2/              3/
                                            ICB              NCB       Other          N.B.F.         Total Cost
1. Civil Works                                -           3.34           7.08              -            10.42
                                                         (2.70)         (3.15)                          (5.85)
2. Equipment and educational                  -           0.39           3.13              -             3.52
    materials                                            (0.35)         (2.17)                          (2.52)
3. Furniture                                  -             -            0.70              -             0.70
                                                                        (0.57)                          (0.57)
4. Training                                   -           0.00           9.75              -             9.75
                                                         (0.00)         (7.44)                          (7.44)
5. Operating Costs                            -           0.00           6.15              -             6.15
                                                         (0.00)         (5.94)                          (5.94)
6. Scholarships   4/                          -           0.00          42.41              -            42.41
                                                         (0.00)        (22.83)                         (22.83)
7. Contract teachers                          -           0.00           0.74              -             0.74
                                                         (0.00)         (0.67)                          (0.67)
8. Consultants' services and                                                               -
    studies
    a. Contracted by Project                  -           0.00           1.84              -             1.84
         Provinces                                       (0.00)         (1.84)                          (1.84)
    b. Others                                 -           0.00           1.24              -             1.24
                                                         (0.00)         (1.21)                          (1.21)
9. Grants under Part E (1) of                 -           0.00          25.43              -            25.43
    the Project                                          (0.00)        (13.74)                         (13.74)
10. Block Grants under Part                   -           0.00          16.29              -            16.29
    E (2) of the Project                                 (0.00)        (16.29)                         (16.29)
11. Matching Grants under                     -           0.00           8.37              -             8.37
     Part E (3) of the Project                           (0.00)         (8.37)                          (8.37)
12. Gov.' support for the                     -             -              -            15.78           15.78
     project implementation                                                               (0)             (0)

Total                                         -           3.73         123.13           15.78          142.64
                                                         (3.05)        (84.22)          (0.00)         (87.27)


1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) monitoring and evaluation.
3/ Excludes the land acquisition and certificates financed by the participating districts; as well the matching grants
financed by the participating schools.
4/ Includes GOI funded as an integrated program for providing scholarships and school grants.




                                                        - 19 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
       Component             Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
                           Bank    Govt.    CoF.    Bank   Govt.     CoF. Bank     Govt.   CoF.
Increasing Access to Junior 61.77   34.87     -     59.80  45.90      -    97       131      -
Secondary Education
Improving Quality           27.29    8.71     -     18.80   9.18      -    69       104      -
Strengthening Education      4.34    2.82     -     2.84    0.07      -    66        2       -
Management
Support for Project          3.80       0     -     5.83    0.22      -   153    unlimited   -
Management


Total Cost                  97.20   46.40     -      -        -       -     -        -       -

Unallocated                  1.80    1.00     -      -        -       -     -        -       -

Total Project Cost          99.00   47.40     -     87.27  55.37      -    88       117      -




                                               - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No independent study of project costs and benefits was carried out.




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              5/30/1995                 5    Mission Leader (1); Project           S               S
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant/Educator (1);
                                             Consultant/Economist (1);
                                             Consultant Statistics & GIS(1)
              10/16/1995                5    Mission Leader (1); Project           S               S
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant/Economist (1);
                                             Consultant/ Educator (2)
              1/17/1996                 2    Mission Leader (1);                   S               S
                                             Consultant/Educator (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              4/03/1996                 4    Mission Leader (1); Educator          S               S
                                             (1); Fin. Mgmt. Specialist
                                             (1); Procurement Specialist
                                             (1).

 Supervision
              08/01/1996                1    Education Specialist (1)              S               S
              08/01/1996                2    EDUC. MGMT. Specialist (1);           S               S
                                             Education Specialist (1)
              04/17/1997                1    Education Specialist (1)              S               S
              10/10/1997                2    Educator (1); Mission Leader (1)      S               S
              08/07/1998                3    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Consultant (2)
              02/18/1999                2    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Consultant (1)
              11/04/1999                4    Procurement Specialist (1);           S               S
                                             Financial Mgmt. Spec. (1);
                                             Architect, Consultant (1);
                                             Teacher Training Spec. (1)
              03/11/2000                1    Operations Officer (1)                S               S
              10/04/2000                2    TTL/Mission Leader (1); Ex-Post       S               S
                                             Rev.Consultant (1)
              10/13/2000                6    Sector Director (1); Task Team        S               S
                                             Leader (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Consultant (3)
              10/13/2000                4    Task Team Leader (1); Financial       S               S
                                             Mgmt Officer (1); Construction
                                             Consultant (1); Team Assistant
                                             (1)
              10/13/2000                8    TTL --Loan 4042 (1); Educ.            S               S
                                             Specialist/Consl (2); TTL -- Loan
                                             4095 (1); Financial Mgt. Spec.
                                             (1); Procurement Specialist (1);



                                              - 22 -

                                               Sr. Disbursement Off. (1); Sr.
                                               Educ. Specialist (1)
               05/14/2003                  7   Task Team Leader (1);               S    S
                                               Procurement Specialist (1);
                                               Financial Mgt. Spec. (1);
                                               Construction Specialist (3);
                                               Education Specialist (1)
               Several                     6   Task Team Leader (1); DPS (1);      S    S
               intermittent joint              FMS (1); Construction /
               missions within                 Community Dev. Spc (1); Educ
               2003 for                        Specialist Consulant (1);
               implementation                  Construction Consultant (1)
               support

 ICR
               08/31/2004                 3     Task Team Leader (1); Sr.
                                                Education Specialist (1) as a
                                                primary author; Consultant
                                                (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     N/A                          628,941
  Supervision                               N/A                          305,218
  ICR                                       N/A
  Total                                     N/A                          934,159




                                                - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Central Independent Monitoring Unit (2004), "An Evaluation of the Scholarships and Grants
Program and the School Improvement Grants Program", Independent Monitoring of the School
Improvement Grants Program and Scholarships and Grants Program, Jakarta.

Department of Institutional Integrity (Final Report 4 April 2004), Final Report: (School
Improvement Grants Program( INT Case Number: INS-089-SGP-01), the World Bank,
Washington D.C. Restricted distribution

Ridao-Cano, C and D.Filmer (2004), "Evaluating the Performance of SGP and SGIP. A Review
of the Existing Literature and Beyond", Human Development Sector Unit East Asia and the
Pacific Region Working Paper Series No. 20043, The World Bank, Washington D.C.

Sparrow,R (2004), "Protecting Education for the Poor in Times of Crisis: An Evaluation of a
Scholarship Program in Indonesia", Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and Tinbergen Institute,
Amsterdam.

World Bank (1998), Education in Indonesia: From Crisis to Recovery, Report No. 1639-IND,
Education Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, the World Bank, Washington D.C.

World Bank (2004), Education in Indonesia: Managing the Transition to Decentralization,
Indonesia Sector Review, the World Bank, Washington D.C.


Project documents on file in Bank office, Jakarta.

Borrowers Completion Reports for (a) Loan 4042, (b) Loan 4062, (c) Loan 4095
Project Monitoring and Evaluation and Audit Reports
Aide Memoire and documents prepared for Mid Term Review
Loan Agreements and Loan Amendments
Project Status Reports
Disbursement Records
Aide Memoires and Back-to-office Reports




                                               - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report



                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

                       EASTHERN INDONESIA LOAN 4042-IND




                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY




                                        BY
                    JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
                     CENTRAL PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT




                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                       MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
       DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
               DIRECTORATE OF JUNIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION
                                    January 2005




                                       - 27 -

1.       Project Data
    Name         : Junior Secondary Education Project                     L/C/TF Number:
    Country      : INDONESIA                                      Region: East Asia and Pacific Region
    Key Dates : Approval August 12,1996
    Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI/JSE
                  Original                        Revised/Extension
    Effective: 08/12/1996                         08/12/1996     08/29/2002
                                                  06/30/1998    12/06/2003
                                                  06/23/2000

2.       Principal Performance Rating
    (HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HL = Highly Likely, L = Likely, UN
    = Unlikely, HUN = Highly Unlikely, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory, H = High, SU = Substantial, M =
    Modest, N = Negligible)
    Outcome:
    Sustainability:
    Institutional Development Impact:
    Bank Performance:
    Borrower Performance:
                                                   QAG (if available)     ICR
                                                          Quality at Entry
                                                  Project at Risk at Any Time:

3.       Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objectives
The Project was designed to assist MONE to achieve three main objectives, they were (a) expanding access
to JSE, (b) improving the quality of teaching and learning process, and (c) strengthening education
management capacity at all levels. The expected outcome from the three main objectives was greater
number of junior secondary school (JSE) leavers to the better quality. Access was increased by (i) building
more schools in less accessible locations, (ii) providing learning modules and some training to open JSE
schools (SLTP-Terbuka), (iii) providing more classrooms and other related buildings to selected needy
schools, (iv) providing scholarships to poor JSE pupils. While improving quality was carried out by (i)
providing training to large numbers of teachers using established training mechanisms, and (ii) providing
books, teaching aids and libraries to needy schools. Strengthening education management was by providing
management training to (i) school heads and (ii) to other school staffs, and to (iii) various education
officials.

The performance indicators for NEM score targets were set too high in some respects. The fluctuation
demand of JSE schools was apparently caused by both the unpredictable economic crisis and the
Government's (GOI) new decentralization policy. For strengthening project management, at the first 3
years of project implementation, the performance indicator "percentage of budget spent and targets met
annually" focused on funds disbursed rather than being an indication of strengthened management within
PPIU and provincial education offices.

This was the first project in the education sector designed to be implemented at provincial level with the
centre only providing coordination. Thus MONE was placed in a new situation where it had to learn how to


                                                   - 28 -

operate in a different setting from previously implemented projects.

World Bank project designers focused on the use of consultants to implement the activities who work
closely with and under coordination of routine officials. The policy is intended to establish a strategy to
strengthen the existing sections since the project has many components within an individual development
objective. This was noted in the SAR as a potential risk to the project success. Therefore the term of
references provided, along with launch seminars, was followed by varieties of guidelines as references for
conducting such a new and large activity.

The project was divided into 2 phases due to major changes in activities after the mid-term review resulting
from the effects of the economic crisis. The first phase 1 ran between 1997/8-1999/2000 and phase 2,
spanned FY 2000-04.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    Not Applicable

3.3 Original Components:
The project had 11 components in support of the four objectives given above:
Component 1: Access Civil works (USD 6,900,000)
Component 2: Equipment and education materials (USD 3,600,000)
Component 3: Furniture (USD 1,000,000)
Component 4: Training (USD 8,000,000)
Component 5: Operating costs (USD 4,876,104.54)
Component 6: Scholarships (USD 21,750,000)
Component 7: Contract teachers (USD 870,000)
Component 8: Consultants' services and other (USD 5,800,000)
Component 9: Grants under Part E.1 of the project (USD 18,500,000)
Component 10: Block Grants under Part E.2 of the Project (USD 16,200,000)
Component 11: Matching Grants under Part E.3 of the Project (7,600,000)
Cancelled as of 19 July 1999 (3,634,525.96)
Cancelled as of 12 October 2001 (269,369.50)

4.      Achievement of Objectives and Output

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective
Increase Access - In total, 171 new schools (known as USB) were built. Enrolment in school year 2003/04
was 108% of school capacity. The project constructed 50 teacher-housing units and pupil dormitories for
poor schools and facilitated with furniture. The loan constructed 601 additional classrooms under this
component by the end of phase 2. The loan provided 56,800 modules to SLTPT. Over 4,557 SLTPT tutors
received training/ orientation in all two provinces; the highest number was in East Java. In the reality
scholarships had been given to bright but poor JSE pupils as many as 1,087,045 scholars (35,350 targeted
in the SAR). A loan amendment enabled this budget line to be substantially increased with the objective of
providing a larger number of scholarships because of the scale of priority during the financial crisis. This
part of the loan was placed under its own project manager early in FY 1998/99. About 275 temporary
contract teachers were hired for core academic subjects and positioned in rural schools where teacher
retention was difficult to carry out. This programme ran until the end of school year 2002/03. Final
assessments in June 2004 showed that the Loan achieved Satisfactorily on the two performance indicators,
which related solely to the expansion of JSE places.




                                                    - 29 -

Improve Quality ­ The PKG-C residential teacher training system for teachers from rural/remote schools
has been established over the years in Indonesia. As many as 7.627 JSE teachers or 10% targeted of all
JSE teachers in 6 core academic subjects attended this training. After the MTR, quality inputs and
activities were redesigned into the target school (ST) programme. Training inputs for these schools
included: ToT and PKGSJ teacher training, CAR for some ST and Facilitators to provide on-service
support for the PKG-SJ training programme. The ToT for PKGSJ programme teachers was redesigned to
support 4 core subjects. A detailed training manual and set of videos of best classroom practices were
developed and provided to each province to enable the to replicate the program of the training with teachers
in PKGSJ sessions at provincial level. A total of about 600 teachers were reached from about 150 ST
through this programme.

Approximately 3,514 teachers attended MGMP over the 4 years of implementation. LKGI training was
provided to about 1,124 key teachers at provincial levels to enable them to exchange their experiences in
these training sessions. The Classroom Action Research programme was introduced into MGMP to
revitalize it in 1998/99 as a pilot. In 2001, the CAR programme was also offered on a competitive basis to
a limited number of target schools. Teachers had to prepare a proposal and refine it during CAR
workshops. Almost 25% of total ST was involved. The total number of CAR clusters was 442, comprising
both ST and non-ST clusters. In total about 2,544 teachers were involved. Other trainings provided under
the loan included: teachers training in teaching second subject other than their main subjects, in media use,
training for laboratory technicians and for developing test items.

Library, reference books and encyclopaedias were procured and distributed to selected schools. The ratio of
library and reference books to pupils was 1:5. One set of encyclopaedia was provided per school. Libraries
were built in 2 provinces were East Java and East Nusa Tenggara. Supplementary textbooks were also
procured and distributed to schools. Target schools received sets of these books with the ratio of books to
pupils in all 2 provinces except East Java and East Nusa Tenggara of 1:1. Roughly 979 sets of teaching
aids were procured and distributed to selected schools. The project procured and distributed around 843
sets of office equipment to selected schools. These 3 programmes were later transferred to the school grants
programme.

The grant programme was to encourage implementation of MONE's school-based management. In FY
2000, 764 both public and private received the grants (block grant and matching grant). Both grants were
determined based on the proposal proposed by schools in which outlining their needs. In 2001, 200 target
schools (ST) and 590 non-ST received grants. In FY 2002, only the MG programme was implemented and
all school recipients had to provide a contribution in the form of counter-budget. As most schools had
neglected quality needs, a positive list comprising reference and reading books, purchase or
teacher-production of teaching aids/materials, temporary teachers and, only for non target school, demand
driven teacher training through the school cluster system was instituted. Attention to WC and school
sanitation was also included. In the loan, 200 ST and 150 NST were reached included 12 madrasah. Target
schools received the grants over 2 years. Through the matching grant programme, In East Java
implemented the demand driven teacher training which reached some 100 teachers. However, the
programme resembled MGMP training to a large extent and courses were not often "demanded" by
participants.

Following the MTR of late 1999, the target school (ST) programme was implemented in FY 2001 to focus
inputs and activities in a limited number of highly deserving poor, rural and remote schools, which were
considered to have the potential and willingness to improve in quality. The total number of ST in the loan
was 200. Programmes for these schools varied over time.




                                                    - 30 -

Science Study aimed to develop and try out an integrated science instruction or learning models in JSE
School. The programme was implemented in schools in Surabaya and Malang, East Java, from 1999/2000
until 2001/2002. About 18 teachers and 5,874 pupils were involved in this study. The products of the
study were (a) curriculum of integrated science programme based on activities, (b) teaching-learning
materials, (c) activity based evaluation models which integrate several of academic skills, and (d) the list of
simple equipments and materials for supporting learning activities.

The PISA (Program for International Student Assessment). The activities consist of designing the program
activities and trial, conducting main survey, and carrying out data analysis and report.

The Development of Management Training Materials was intended to design and develop training program
for school principals and district administrators. The product of this program was structure curriculum of
training program, modules and video program presentation which related to the subject of school based
management.

When assessed for the proposed project extension in 2002, this development objective achieved satisfactory
status. However, realignment of the ToT and PKG-SJ training activities mentioned above enabled
Satisfactory status to be reached at eop final assessment in mid 2004.

Strengthen education management - A total of 2,240 heads were supported to attend school head's
working groups (MKKS). In addition, the loan procured tailor-made materials and provided about 7,000
school heads with general management training to strengthen implementation of MONE's school-based
management (SBM) policy. Also, the project assisted USB and target school heads with maintenance of
their schools by providing Preventative Maintenance training for some 212 school heads between FY 2001
and 2003. The Target School Communication Forum (FKST) was launched in FY 2002 in each ST to
again support SBM. The meetings were held at provincial, district and school levels. Provincial and district
meetings were run by PPIU and used to share information and a common perspective on the ST
programme. Participants at these meetings included a representative from the school committee.

Selected education officials and admin staff, including school admin staff, were also trained in MIS. Other
education officials at Kanwil and Kandep levels, including school supervisors, were provided with general
management training based on project-developed modules. The project requested district education offices
to appoint a technical team (TTK) to be responsible for maintaining, coordinating, and monitoring project
programmes as part of a sustainability strategy.

Each assessment (of 3) of this development objective achieved Satisfactory status.

Strengthen project implementation - CPCU and PPIU revised the organization structure several times to
accommodate changes. CPCU hired consultants for loan monitoring and evaluation, construction/
procurement, quality assurance and finance that provided technical assistance, in collaboration with the
project team, in implementing project programmes. The project conducted coordination meetings at local,
regional, and national levels at the beginning, middle, and at the end of each fiscal year to develop project
plans, discuss the project implementation, and evaluate implementation results. The project also conducted
formative and comprehensive monitoring programme to satisfy the Project Implementation and
Performance Indicators.

Again this development objective achieved Satisfactory status for all 3 assessments.

Achievement on Project Performance Indicators are shown on the following table.


                                                     - 31 -

             Loan Achievement on Project Performance Indicators (PPI) at EOP,June 2004

                        Development Objective/                         Target      % Achieved        Rating
                          Performance Indicator
 1.    Increase Access to JSE                                                         96 %            HS
1a    Enrolment targets in new schools are achieved                      75%          93%*)
1b    New capacity created through USB is utilized                       75%          100%
2     Improve quality                                                                  75%             S
2a    Inputs arrive complete and on-time to target schools (ST)         100%          77%**)
2b    ST show improvement in classroom behaviours of project             60%           73 %
      trained teachers and their pupils
3a    Strengthen educational management                                                84%            HS
      Target schools provide effective professional and physical         70%           84 %
      support to pupil learning
3b    Strengthen project management                                                    83%             S
      Implementation of agreed work programme as measured               95%            83 %
      by physical targets met and budget spent
*) Based on Enrolment in all new project constructed schools (USB)
**) After the completion of Matching Grant programme FY 2002

4.2 Implementation Issues and Recommendations

Increase Access:
New Schools (USB). To overcome a range of problems, the concept of a new and complete school (USB),
with full site works, infrastructure, all required school staff and teaching learning materials/ resources was
introduced. Both the time required for construction and the lead-time between completion and its use by
pupils was to be reduced to approximately 6-7 months. During the project extension, contracted
construction firms were replaced by community participation in USB construction, thought to be more
quality conscience and cost and time efficient. This brought its own problems. Management construction
consultants were hired to assist USB teams but monitoring revealed the low performance of some of them,
a lack of understandable guidelines, and insufficient and inadequate technical and administrative support to
school teams ­ some of them receiving only limited supervision of the kind/ level normally given to
specialized construction contractors. Other construction of other rooms was to focus on classrooms first,
but written intentions sometimes differed from realization with funds being diverted to repair or construct
teacher rooms. Recommendations included publicising and implementing a set of sanctions for miss-use of
funds by schools or others.

SLTP Terbuka. The programme needs continuing and expanding if MONE EfA targets are to be met. The
complete equivalency of SLTPT certificates needs to be widely publicized so that SLTPT graduates are not
overlooked during their job search efforts which would indirectly penalize the efforts they have made to
continue with their education while assisting to maintain the family's livelihood.

Scholarships. One complaint about the programme was its emphasis on scholarships to children already in
school. Only limited attempts were made to get those children who initially could not afford to remain in
JSE or to transfer from primary school into JSE back into school. There remains a great need to continue
this programme in many areas, some within the capital and other areas, some of which are not too far from



                                                     - 32 -

it. Second, means testing for needy children and searching out those who can not afford to transfer into JSE
needs to be more rigorous.

Contract teachers. MONE has taken up the practice of supplying contract teachers in large numbers. In
some schools, the basis for placement in a school based on the total number of permanent teachers in the
school regardless of their subject specialization rather than on identifying which subject lacks a teacher.
Their placement in school needs monitoring to ensure that they are definitely needed.

Improve Quality:
MGMP. a well established national system of in-service support for teachers by their colleagues needs
maintaining, strengthening and invigorating with the lead teachers receiving refresher courses in new
teaching methodologies. Inputs should include: how to train professional adults in more formal sessions and
during classroom visits, and how to support teacher development of generic teaching skills.

PKGSJ. The PKGSJ programme of 2002-03 in particular, was realigned to focus on a limited number of
target classroom behaviours so that teachers were not overwhelmed with the enormity of change expected
from them. The revised training strategy raised achievement on the project performance indicator to
Satisfactory in August 2003, after teachers had only 12-15 months to try out the new behaviours in their
classrooms. MONE needs to institutionalise the above methodology. Use it to show teachers how to handle
and teach the forthcoming competence based curriculum. Dinas could identify areas, which require
improvement, based on teachers' needs and the results of M&E through classroom observation, and then
devise and offer similar in-service teacher training programmes.

CAR. After initial interest, teachers presentations of CAR results showed their limitations in identifying
worthwhile problems to research without having first seen/ experienced alternative teaching methods and
seen how others handle lessons and classes. Moreover, teachers exaggerated their results. The research
aspect needs de-emphasizing and more stress laid on the fact that this technique is actually normal practise
for professional teachers, and they do not need financial support to be creative in solving classroom
problems. CAR in ST, ie outside of MGMP clusters is not viable.

Laboratories and libraries. Procurement of reference and library books. Problems included the time lag
between ordering and receiving books; whether books satisfied a real need and were used to support
learning activities by teachers and pupils, or just displayed in the head's room. The level of reference book
was sometimes inappropriate for either teachers or pupils. Little emphasis was given to selecting interesting
reading books to encourage the reading habit. Schools need grants to purchase reading books, limited to 2-3
copies per title, and to display them attractively in the library. Introduce monthly rotation of books within
the school cluster to increase turnover of available reading materials. Schools need a library schedule where
every class has 1-2 hours for story reading in the library every week (during B Indonesia) or for developing
research skills. Teaching aids. Schools need to designate specialized subject rooms for particular subjects
eg. Geography so that specialist equipment and aids can be stored there (rather like science labs). The
subject-based classroom had been applied in the new JSE schools or big schools where many rooms are
available. In existing schools with limited number of classrooms, such aids will then be more readily used
in lessons than if the teacher has to carry them from another storage area to the classroom. Provide teachers
with funds to produce their own simple but effective teaching aids. School office equipment. Schools need
to have adequate operating and maintenance funds so that machines do not deteriorate and fall into disuse,
as well as a plan for regular maintenance of equipment.

School BG/MG grants. Schools started directing funds towards quality issues since the issuance of revised
guidelines of 2002 which weighted selection of MG proposals by PPIU towards quality inputs. These also


                                                     - 33 -

involved community participation to increase transparency and ownership of schools. The matching grant
(MG) system (requiring a school contribution) has the potential to increase school and community
ownership of purchased goods/ equipment. Implementation of a MG system with community participation
requires schools to have both the capability and the will to seriously implement the programme, along with
the existence of sufficient technical aid in the field. Clear rules from donors are vital, in the form of clear,
simple and easy to follow guidelines, including a positive list of permissible inputs and activities.

Facilitator for target schools. This program was newly introduced during the project extension, therefore
several issues were come up. Several facilitators only partially implemented their TORs. Insufficient
socialization to school heads meant that some of them were uncertain of facilitator's role and so less
welcoming.

Science study showed that an activity of based learning strategies improved learning outcomes
comprehensively included cognitive, affective and psychomotor aspects. This results could be adopted in
designing its integrated curriculum.

PISA study. During study implementation, the team should conduct a regular meeting with teachers,
headmasters and CPCU to discuss problems and proposed solution.

Study management. Management training for school principals and administrators should be more
practical, related to the daily life. The provision of tips of technical guidelines will be one of alternatives.

Strengthen Educational Management:
Management training for school heads and education officials. PPIU had already conducted their own
management training before the CPCU specially developed package became available. Recommendations:
Materials need to be applicable to the real situation found in most poor, rural, remote schools, not to the
idealized situation thought to exist. Preventative maintenance training. This training is meant to links with
project programmes of BG-USB and MG grant. Since not too applicable, it was received as knowledge by
school heads. However, during this training, school heads should produce a school and equipment
maintenance plan with realistic costing and on return to their school allocate funds from their operating
budget for it. Monitoring is vital to ensure that plan is implemented. Target school forum for
communication (FKST). This also was only devised for the project extension. However, this forum
becomes an effective vehicle for school heads and school committees to discuss school issues.

Strengthen Project Management:
Central Programme Coordination Unit (CPCU). No specialist M&E unit was established. Activities such
as timely support to PPIU and monitoring suffered because of this. More personnel should have been made
available, either seconded from routine staff, or more consultants hired. The development of the
implementation indicators, based on the project's performance indicators, was not undertaken until late in
2001, towards the end of the project. However, once available, these indicators enabled CPCU to more
closely control and supervise provincial implementation of project activities.

Provincial Project Implementation Unit. The project provinces underestimated the complexity involved in
undertaking the project and especially the need for (i) rigorous procurement planning and clearance based
on World Bank guidelines, (ii) rigorous preparation before implementation, and (iii) tight control and
monitoring of all activities and inputs. Loan activities were combined with routine Dinas programmes
without extra staffing and project personnel were thus over stretched. Some project appointments were
inappropriate and did not support sound implementation of project programmes. Consultant's effectiveness
was sometimes reduced as salaries were reduced to pay for assistants.


                                                       - 34 -

World Bank. There was too much control of activities during implementation. A better thought out project
with clear "what to do" and "how to do" sections to achieve the project objectives (perhaps with a log
frame) would have released the Task Managers from the need to follow daily implementation so closely.
Then a NOL for almost all activities would not be necessary. This requirement inevitably resulted in delays
in issuing NOL when they were required for important items. One Task Manager per loan for much of the
project's life created stresses during implementation because there were 3 voices rather than one. Project
implementation indicators, based on the performance indicators, need to be written in the SAR/PAD so that
targets are available from the start to aid planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
performance and achievements. The activities agreed in any extension of a project need to be carefully
considered. They should certainly be less and not more than during the project proper.

5.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1     Factor outside the control of government or implementing agency
During project implementation the East Asian financial struck Indonesia and had substantial impact on all
service provided by the GOI. The looming financial crisis became increasingly pronounced in FY 1998/99.
A loan amendment enabled this budget line to be substantially increased with the objective of providing a
larger number of scholarships to JSE pupils.

5.2     Factors generally subject to government control
In 2002, GOI adopted the decentralized system for education, among things. The year 2002 was also the
beginning of district and community empowerment programs through district autonomy to conduct its own
plan and budget. In line with MONE's newly introduced (FY 2000) policy of school based management
where the community is encouraged to play a larger role in schooling.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
The project was very complex for PPIUs to handle. There were many components within an individual
development objective. New project performance indicators and their associated implementation indicators
were developed, focusing on aspects such as transparency, accountability, quality, school needs and their
use of inputs. A major programme improvement made was the introduction of the concept of the new
school development (known as USB), in 1999/00.

5.4. Cost and financing
A loan of US$ 99 million was signed in August 1996 and implementation began in 1996-97 in the 2
provinces of East Java and East Nusa Tenggara, and it closed in June 2002. The first extension was agreed
until December 2003 and the second extension until end of June 2004. After its extention Loan covered 4
provinces - East Java, East Nusa Tenggara, South Sulawesi and West Nusa Tenggara - and only in 2 new
provinces BG-USB were implemented.

Financial Status - Cumulative expenditures which was based on revised amount fund allocated in loan at
August 29, 2002 totalled US$ 99,000,000 as May 16, 2004. Cumulative loan disbursement as of May 16
2004 was US$ 92,223,254.64 (including Special Assistance, SA).

6. Sustainability

USB. The concept of new school (or USB) has been used by MONE since 2001 as part of its national
school construction policy and so this project concept has become institutionalized, financed and sustained
by the Education Ministry. The concept of BG-USB is also being used by the Central Java education office


                                                   - 35 -

as the mechanism for constructing some senior high schools.

Scholarships and school operating grants (DBO) offered through the project are now provided through
various projects supported financially by MONE, which acknowledges that the economic crisis continues to
effect a significant number of children in many areas.

The block grant (BG) system has been used by the Directorate of PLP for its JSE and SSE classroom
construction programme.

PKG-SJ and CAR programme evaluations of mid 2004 found that 65% and 83% of teachers and students
respectively, exhibited the target classroom behaviours. The new classroom behaviours of teachers were
less sustainable in the schools (i) whose teachers were mismatched in terms of education/training
background (ii) in private schools with a limited number of teachers which forced teachers to handle more
than the one subject they were trained to teach. Some districts followed up the classroom action research
(CAR) programme by providing block grants for the purpose.

Block grants for improving education quality were adopted by the Directorate of PLP in FY 2004 for their
School Subsidy Programme, i.e. teacher training and books and teaching aids procurement.

Target schools (arbour 60%) are attempting to sustain a variety of project inputs such as the continued
implementation of new teacher behaviours in the classroom, holding school level FKST meetings, and
inviting Facilitators into school to assist them. Facilitator program in target schools could not be adopted
by districts due to costs although some schools invite instructors to provide inputs, covering incidental
costs from school committee funds.

Contract Teachers. Since 2003, MONE has recruited some 200,000 contract teachers using central funding
for all provinces in Indonesia. Other needs are being met through recruitment of the contract teachers by
district education offices.

Even though TTK performance in some districts was not optimum, it was adopted and followed up by the
Directorate PLP in 2004.

7. Bank and Borrower performance

7.1 Bank
Lending. Changing in lending approach is the result in responding to the situations occurred in economics
and social politics in Indonesia. In 1997, the unpredictable economic crisis happened that resulted some
project budget was allocated for scholarships and block grants program. In 2002, the Government's (GOI)
implemented new decentralization policy and school-based management that caused the new JSE school
and block/matching grants were implemented at district, even at school level, with the province and centre
only providing coordination. Project completion is adjustable. In order to achieve proper completion of
each project programs, project completion was amended two times.

Supervision. A closer work relationship between the Project, at central and provincial levels, and the
World Bank occurred in the last three years. Project activities were planned together, the implementation
progresses were always discussed, and monitoring activities were conducted collaboratively. During the
first 4 years of project implementation, one Task manager per loan created stresses implementation because
there were 3 voices rather than one. Project implementation indicators, based on the performance
indicators, need to be written in the SAR/PAD so that targets are available from the start to aid planning,


                                                    - 36 -

implementation, monitoring and evaluation of performance and achievements.

Overall Bank Performance
Overall performance by the World Bank was reasonable at the project's life.

7.2 Borrower
Preparation
There was a clear understanding of the problems based on a thorough analysis of lessons learned from the
implementation of previous project, and the project was seen as a major mechanism to facilitate the changes
and plans in Junior Secondary Education. The borrower approached the preparation of the project in an
exemplary manner, assigning experienced and highly motivated staff to the preparation team.

Government implementation performance
Overall implementation performance by the Government was satisfactory across the all levels at which the
bureaucracy of Ministry of Education and the project operated.

The CPCU regularly provided technical assistance to ensure PPIU implemented all programs, monitoring
overall loan expenditures, monitoring procurement activities, and collecting data for monitoring and
evaluation.    Overall implementation by CPCU was satisfactory. The PPIUs were responsible for
implementing all programs based on the guidelines, ensuring that the budget used properly, and providing
data and reports. Overall implementation by PPIU was satisfactory.

Implementing agency
Overall implementation by the Government and the project was satisfactory.

Overall borrower performance
Overall borrower performance was satisfactory. With regard to in the grant and empowerment school as
well as community was very satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned
Increase access
l Scholarships maintain student enrollment. More valid and accurate data are needed however, to ensure
    that the program reach the targeted pupils. Scholarships should also have been given to grade 6 primary
    pupils so that they could transfer directly into JSE.
l The concept of USB certainly reduced the time lag between end of construction of the school and pupils
    entering it to study. It also strongly encouraged the community to participate in education i.e. some
    parties (teachers, village leaders) learnt some fundamental principles of school-based management,
    such as transparency, participation, accountability, and autonomy, from being in the programme.
l The siting of new JSE schools needs to take into consideration local knowledge and conditions so that
    mistaken siting of schools is minimised.
l SLTP Terbuka is an alternative JSE system where. It needs to be continuously improved. This system
    is fundamentally important for children who live in poor, remote, and rural (PRR) areas.

Improve quality
l   Teachers need to know that alternative teaching models could work before they are expected to change
    their classroom behaviour. Through the PKG-SJ programme, teachers were provided with teaching
    models which they could try out in their classrooms.
l   Contract teachers was a solution of the problem of teacher shortages in poor, remote and rural areas.
    The agreement between the DGPSE and district governments should be arranged to ensure that teachers


                                                      - 37 -

    are correctly placed and not moved from the school until the required number of PNS teachers is
    reached.
l   Programmes to improve the quality of schools should focus on comprehensive, whole school approach.



Strengthen education management
l Head teachers have capabilities in designing and proposing school programmes to build an effective
    school. To be more open and transparent in managing school affairs should be supported by wide and
    comprehensive socialization and orientation programmes.
l Community participation was considered important to support the head teacher to develop a better
    school environment.

Strengthen project management
l Measurement of project management achievement which relies solely on the percentage of project
    activities finished only encourages budget-driven implementation.
l Well planned monitoring, coordinating, and assisting of project implementation should be considered as
    a factor which influences project achievement.
l The project's performance indicators and the implementation indicators should have been developed
    and agreed during the design or, at the latest, the inception phase of the project.
l A system of incentives and punishments needs to be developed and agreed at the design stage,
    publicized and enforced when required throughout the life of the project.
l Improved working conditions allocated by provincial education offices including direct access to basic
    communications and seating in some provinces would have provided a more conducive work
    environment for provincial teams.
l Provincial Dinas office was often requested not to replace consultants, staff or project managers
    because of its affect on work motivation, data collection and understanding of the project. This request
    should have been extended to the rotation of school heads too as this often upset monitoring of
    successes. A clause to this effect should be included in future MOU/ MOA between loan projects and
    all participating district authorities.

9. Partner Comments

(a)     Borrower/Implementing agency
(b)     Co financiers
(c)     Other partners (NGOs/private sector)

10. Program effectiveness

    a. USB
    Programme effectiveness was calculated from 3 major aspects, i.e. (i) the time of use (physical
    quality), (ii) the appropriateness of school operation (furniture, books, teaching aids, school principals,
    administration staff, pupils, institution), and (iii) the empowerment of the school and community. USB
    construction unit cost was calculated on the basis of school building unit cost per square meter.

    It was found the quality of BG-USB was much better than that of USB built by contract mechanism.
    The higher the quality of school building was the longer the time of use of the building. It could live as
    long as 25 years. BG.USB program was effective (efficient) because the school was then operated in
    less than 6 months after physical building was finished. School as well as its community was more
    actively involved in its planning, managing and controlling.


                                                      - 38 -

b. PKG-SJ programs
The cost effectiveness of PKG-SJ is the cost spent for the improvement of each score, which is
calculated through comparing the achievement of PPI and the cost for attending PKG-SJ. The cost was
the budget spent by a trainer per year. Since the cost was not much different in every year, the unit
cost used was the average unit costs in 2001 and 2003. Analysis on the cost effectiveness revealed that
PKG-SJ was an effective program since in average it spent Rp. 139.000 for the increase of one
effectiveness score.

c. CAR program
The analysis underlined that the cost of Loan 4042 was Rp. 500.000. CAR was less effective than
PKG-SJ/SJ programs.




                                              - 39 -

- 40 -

