                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32503

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (TF-23961 and TF-23777)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                                   FOR

           THE SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                            October 13, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2005)

                                         Currency Unit = ILS (New Israeli Sheqalim)
                                                   ILS 1 = US$ 0.23
                                                  US$ 1 = ILS 4.38

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                         January     to    December

                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT   Average Annual Daily Traffic                         MOP    Ministry of Planning
B2000   Bethlehem 2000                                      MOU    Memorandum of Understanding
CA      Israeli Civil Administration                        MPWH   Ministry of Public Works and Housing
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                         MTR    Mid Term Review
CBU     Capacity Building Unit                              NCB    National Competitive Bidding
CDP-1   First Community Development Project                 NPV    Net Present Value
CDP-2   Second Community Development Project                NS     National Shopping
CD      Country Director                                    OED    Operations Evaluation Department
CG      Consultative Group                                  OPCS   Operations Policy and Country Services
COA     Chart Of Accounts                                   PA     Palestinian Authority
CQ     Consultants Quality-Based                            PAD    Project Appraisal Document
DPAU   Director Project Accounting Unit                     PAU    Project Accounting Unit
DG     Director General                                     PCD    Project Concept Document
EMSRP   Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project PDP    Palestinian Development Plan
EMP     Environmental Management Plan                       PECDAR Palestinian Economic Council for Development&Reconstruction
EMU     Environmental Monitoring Unit                       PLO    Palestinian Liberation Organization
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                             PWA    Palestinian Water Authority
ERP-1   First Emergency Rehabilitation Project              QAG    Quality Assurance Group
ERP-2   Second Emergency Rehabilitation Project             QBS    Quality Based Selection
EU      European Union                                      QCBS   Quality and Cost Based Selection
FE      Financial Expert                                    RFP    Request for Proposal
FMS    Financial Management System                          RMMS   Road Maintenance Management System
GD      General Director                                    RMIS   Revenue Management Information System
GPN     General Procurement Notice                          SA     Special Account
HDM     Highway Development and Management Model            SBD    Standard Bidding Document
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction & Development  SMs    Selected Municipalities
ICB    International Competitive Bidding                    SOE    Statement of Expenditures
ICR     Implementation Completion Report                    SPN    Specific Procurement Notice
IDA     International Development Association               SS     Single Source Selection
IDB     Islamic Development Bank                            TA     Technical Assistance
IRI     International Roughness Index                       TFCA   Trust Fund Credit Agreement
IS      International Shopping                              TOR    Terms of Reference
LCS     Least Cost Selection                                TTL    Task Team Leader
LG      Local Government                                    UAE    United Arab Emirates
LGU     Local Government Units                              UNDB   United Nations Development Business
LGCBP   Local Government Capacity Building Project          UNDP   United Nations Development Program
MIDP-1  First Municipal Infrastructure Development Project  USA    United States of America
MIDP-2 Second Municipal Infrastructure Development Project  USAID  United States Agency for International Development
MIS    Municipal Information System                         VAT    Value Added Tax
MMSDP   Municipal Management & Service Delivery Project     WA     Withdrawal Application
MOLG    Ministry of Local Government                        WB&G   West Bank and Gaza

MOE  Ministry of Education
MOF  Ministry of Finance
MOH  Ministry of Health



                              Vice President:  Christiaan J. Poortman
                            Country Director   Nigel Roberts
                             Sector Manager    Hedi Larbi
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ibrahim Dajani

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
      SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            44
Annex 8. Summary of Stakeholder Workshop Results                                 45
Annex 9. Partner's Comments                                                      50
Annex 10. Additional Information                                                 56
Annex 11. Indications on Social Impact of MIDP-2                                 57
Annex 12. Footnotes                                                              59

Project ID: P058683                                                  Project Name: SECOND MUNICIPAL
                                                                     INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Ibrahim Dajani                                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 25, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE                          L/C/TF Number: TF-23961 and TF-23777
                            DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (37%); Central government administration
                            (29%); Sub-national government administration (25%); General
                            water, sanitation and flood protection sector (9%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Water resource management (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/28/1999                                     Effective: 12/19/2000                12/19/2000
     Appraisal: 05/16/2000                                         MTR: 09/22/2002                  03/06/2003
      Approval: 06/20/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PALESTINIAN LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) FOR BENEFIT OF
                                           PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/MINISTRIES OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
                                           HOUSING (MPWH) AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT (MOLG); PALESTINIAN
                                           LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) FOR BENEFIT OF PALESTINIAN
                                           AUTHORITY/PALESTINIAN WATER AUTHORITY (PWA)
                      Other Partners:      SIX SELECTED MUNICIPALITIES

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:                 Hedi Larbi                                     Jean Claude Villiard
Team Leader at ICR:             Ibrahim Dajani                                 Kingsley Robotham
ICR Primary Author:             Kingsley O. Robotham; Ibrahim
                                Dajani


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S

                                                    QAG (if available)            ICR
                                 Quality at Entry:                                S
                      Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Second Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP-2), US$7.5 million from the special Trust Fund
established for West Bank and Gaza (WB&G) (since WB&G is not a sovereign state, it is not eligible for the
normal sources of World Bank financing. All credits and grants for WB&G projects come from the Trust Fund for
Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB) which is funded by the Bank's surplus and net income), was presented to the
Board in June 2000 and became effective in December of that year. It built on the foundation of three earlier
successful Bank projects, Emergency Rehabilitation Projects One and Two (FY94 & FY96 respectively) and the
First Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP-1, FY97)1. The first two projects sought to tackle the
huge infrastructure backlog in the West Bank and Gaza (WB&G). The third, MIDP-1, continued these efforts but
also began to tackle the more deeply entrenched institutional issues in the local government sector. MIDP-2
sought to further deepen these efforts, and to begin to address the long neglected issue of systematic road
maintenance.

Specific Objectives: The originally stated objectives of MIDP-2 were to:

  1. Improve infrastructural services (roads, water, drainage and sewerage) to and within villages and
       municipalities in WB&G, and preserve existing infrastructural assets; and
  2. Strengthen municipal and central governmental capacity to plan, program, finance, manage and maintain
       local services.

At appraisal, these objectives were deemed to be clear, realistic and responsive to the Palestinian Authority (PA)
needs. Both infrastructure rehabilitation and institutional building objectives were clearly set out, with reasonable
and achievable targets under stable implementation circumstances. They were also amongst the PA's top priorities
as documented in the Palestinian Development Plan (1999 ­ 2003). These objectives were also relevant to two
themes of the Bank's Assistance Strategy to WB&G, dated April 28, 1998, which were: "(a) Developing an
environment conducive to private sector activity; and (b) setting the stage for the emergence of self-governing
institutions on a sustainable basis." Finally, the timing with regards to the political environment was quite
favorable as a breakthrough in the negotiations process at Camp David seemed possible. Furthermore, sector
dialogue and meetings with PA counterpart institutions concluded with the need to graduate from a focus on
emergency infrastructure to longer-term capacity building needs in the areas of municipal planning and finance as
well as maintenance programming for the rehabilitated and new assets developed during the period of 1994 ­
1999. The objectives were also flexible, allowing sufficient leeway in responding to critical risks as highlighted in
the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). In particular, project design enabled a timely response to "border closure"
and consequences of movement restrictions and rising unemployment through the adoption of simplified
procurement procedures and emphasis on high labor content sub-projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Even before effectiveness, the situation on the ground in WB&G began to change significantly for the worse. The
beginning of the second Palestinian Intifada in late September 2000 ushered in a period of deep social, economic
and political crisis in WB&G, one that is only now beginning to abate.2 In early 2001, and upon the request from
Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH), a reallocation of US$0.4 million was made towards emergency
employment generation through the Regional Roads rehabilitation component. Since most of the activities under
consideration were related to regional road maintenance utilizing intensive labor, approval at the Country Director
level was sufficient. As the crisis deepened, it had a major impact not just on MIDP-2, but also on the Bank's
entire WB&G portfolio3--leading to a comprehensive restructuring of the portfolio in mid-2002. As a result of the
restructuring, MIDP-2's objectives were formally revised to focus on new, more urgent priorities. The restructuring




                                                         - 2 -

proposal approved by the Board on August 6, 2002, (para 15 of Board Submission, July 26, 2002), indicated that:

    Two of the three objectives of the project--those related to the improvement of water and road
    infrastructure--although they would be scaled down, would still be achievable due to the cofinancing still
    available. As for the last objective--capacity building--it would be focusing only on municipal accounting
    systems reform (while municipal investment planning would be financed at a later stage). A new component
    focusing on the repair of damages to ministry facilities, shops, and infrastructure was added to the description
    of the project.

Thus, as of August 6, 2002, damage repair was introduced, and became the major new project objective. Some 60
% of Bank's share of project funding was allocated to components related to this new objective--dramatically
altering the focus of the project. This revised focus remained throughout the duration of the project. The formally
revised project objectives were as follows:

  1. Improve infrastructure services (roads, water, drainage and sewerage) to and within villages and
      municipalities in WB&G, and preserve existing infrastructural assets;
  2. Strengthen municipal accounting systems and central government capacity;
  3. Repair and restore damaged public buildings and high priority infrastructure.

The changes to original objective "1" represented little change in focus but involved a significantly reduced scope,
whereas changes to original objective "2" represented a major change in scope. The municipal investment
planning objective was eliminated, leaving only the accounting systems reform subcomponent. The status of the
MPWH capacity building sub-component was not specifically mentioned, however reduction in its scope was
implicit. Funding for the latter was drastically reduced in the formal December 10, 2002 amendment to the Credit
Agreement. The Central Government capacity building part of Objective "2" continued to be pursued long after
December 2002 but at a much lower level.         Objective "3", as noted, was entirely new. (Supporting data on the
changes in objectives is presented at Annex 1-C.)

The project restructuring was very responsive to the changing environment and the PA's new priorities. The latter
was confirmed by a series of assessments and reviews by the World Bank starting with "Fifteen months - Intifada,
Closures and Palestinian Economic Crisis", June 2002 to "Four Years - Intifada, Closures and Palestinian
Economic Crisis", October 2004. The restructuring also contributed to improved implementation and disbursement
rates previously hindered by the crisis.

3.3 Original Components:
In support of the above objectives, the project originally comprised the following main components:

I. Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement Works (US$ 21.2m, 82% of total project cost; Bank
share: US$ 3.5m, 47% of Bank total)
I.A. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Regional Road Network, intended to support MPWH to help improve
high priority sections of the regional road network in the West Bank and Gaza. This network serves both villages
and municipalities in areas under the PA control.
I.B. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Village and Municipal Water, Wastewater and Sewage Networks,
intended to support the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) to help improve existing high priority systems and
networks as well as develop new systems.

II. Capacity Building (US$4.4m, 17% of total: Bank share: US$ 3.7m, 49% of Bank total)
II.A. Road Maintenance Programming             intended to support MPWH: (i) developing and implementing a
systematic approach to road maintenance for sections of the main and regional road network under Palestinian
jurisdiction. This includes technical assistance to develop and implement a Road Maintenance Management
System (RMMS) and training for MPWH staff, etc. (ii) Establishing an Environmental Monitoring Unit (EMU) to
prepare environmental guidelines and conduct training for contractors.
II.B. Local Government Capacity Building an extension of work already begun under MIDP-1, intended to
support MOLG towards: (i) Accounting Systems Reform: to modernize local government (LG) accounting systems



                                                         - 3 -

with an initial focus on Revenue Management Information Systems ("RMIS") (ii) Investment and Development
Programming in six selected municipalities. This includes: (a) support for analysis of Selected Municipalities (SM)
finances and investment needs and development of cost effective 3-year investment/development plans; (b) training
for accounting and systems staff, coupled with essential software and hardware support.

III. Incremental Operating Expenses (US$0.4m, 1% of total; Bank share: US$ 0.3m, 4% of Bank total)
III.A. Ministry of Public Works and Housing: intended to support MPWH in project implementation including
administrative support, monitoring and reporting of their components.
III.B.      Ministry of Local Government: intended to support MOLG in project implementation including
administrative support, monitoring and reporting of their components, as well as overall project monitoring
accounting and reporting.

The design of these components was deemed adequate to support the achievement of the original project objectives.
The physical component intended to address the needs in the infrastructure sector in an effort to improve access to
essential services, while creating an environment conducive to private sector activities. This is particularly
important prerequisite to providing improved access to people, goods and labor that is time effective and less
costly. On the other hand, the capacity building component intended to ensure that adequate institutional
capacities, at the central and local levels, are developed to plan, program, account for and maintain assets and local
services. Finally, the design took into consideration lessons learnt from the predecessor projects in particular to
ensure the readiness of subprojects designs, tender documents and availability of construction permits in addition
to adopting a single project design concept that are flexible for changing environments.

3.4 Revised Components:
Consequent to the changes in project objectives (outlined above), project components were formally revised4 in
December 2002, adding two new components: Employment Generation and Damage Repair. In November 2004,
more funding was allocated to damage repair from the capacity building component. The change in the Bank
components up to November 2004 is summarized in Annex 1-C. (Only the US$7.5m Bank components are
considered here because the planned project cofinancing did not materialize, see note below.)

  Component                                                                                                Cost (US$m)     Cost (US$m) Cost (US$m)
                                                                                                           as of May 00    as of Dec. 02    as of Nov. 04
  I. Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement                                                              3.5              5.7            6.80
  A. Rehabilitation and improvement of regional road network, including drainage and essential services;       (2.8)            (2.1)          (2.03)
      A(i). Employment Generation                                                                                -                *               *
  B. Rehabilitation and improvement of village and municipal water supply and sewerage networks                (0.7)           (0.50)          (0.50)
  C. Damage Repair                                                                                               -              (3.1)          (4.27)
  II. Capacity Building                                                                                         3.7             1.70            0.56
  A. Road Maintenance Programming                                                                              (1.6)           (1.00)          (0.03)
  B. Local Government Capacity Building                                                                        (2.1)           (0.70)          (0.53)
  III. Incremental Operating Expense                                                                           0.30             0.10            0.14
  Total                                                                                                       7.50**           7.50**          7.50**
* After restructuring no formal allocation is made, but measures were taken to ensure that works were carried out using labor intensive to the
extent possible.
** Bank's share only.

Major Revised Components: The major revised components as of the December 2002 amendment to the Credit
Agreement are outlined below.

The Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement Works Component (Bank revised: US$6.8m, 84% of
Bank total). This component's share of Bank funding increased from 47 % to 84 %, and incorporated two
additional subcomponents:

      I.A(i). Employment Generation (minor new component) ­ As mentioned earlier, a reallocation of US$0.40
      million was made prior to restructuring towards generating employment through rehabilitation of regional
      roads. (The restructuring plan reaffirmed the need for employment relief, but no specific allocation was made
      in this regard. However it did indicate that follow-on Bank projects would help address this issue.)



                                                                      - 4 -

    I.C. Damage Repair (major new component) - (Bank: US$4.3m; 57% of Bank total): This aimed to support
    MPWH to (i) repair of damages to public buildings through the provision of equipment and furniture and
    small masonry works and repair of damaged infrastructure.

The Capacity Building component (Bank revised: US$0.56m, 7% of Bank total) was reduced significantly in
scope and share of Bank funding, from 49 % to 7 %, eliminating investment planning while keeping a small
assignment to support implementation of the RMIS; and virtual elimination of the MPWH capacity building
subcomponent--though there was no formal change in the description of the sub-component.

The Incremental Operating Expenses component (Bank revised US$0.14m, 2% of Bank total) was also
reduced from 4% to 2% especially that related to incremental expenses associated with carrying out participatory
investment planning at the local level.

The Lack of Cofinancing Response:         The project cofinancing did not materialize as originally planned. At
appraisal, clear cofinancing commitments had been received from the Governments of Saudi Arabia (US$5-8
million) and Italy (US$5­7 million) towards rehabilitation of roads and water networks. However, in view of the
increasingly difficult local situation and escalation of violence especially after March/April 2002, Italy elected to
refocus its commitment on more immediate PA priorities -- particularly those related to employment generation
and damage repair. This was clearly noted with Italy's contribution of US$10 million towards job creation through
the Bank's PEACE Facility, which became effective in December 2002 to address the severe unemployment
conditions. On the other hand, the Government of Saudi Arabia elected to sustain its commitment to MIDP-2 but
was hesitant to disburse the funds due to the deteriorating conditions on the ground.

The ICR will confirm that the revised components, including the incorporation of the new employment generation
and damage repair components, responded effectively to the new objective, and therefore, the project became more
responsive to the PA's revised needs. In keeping with the emergency nature of the reallocation, implementation
and disbursement picked up considerably. In fact, Year 3 disbursement is almost twice as that in Years 1 and 2
cumulatively (see Annex 1-E).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality was not formally reviewed by QAG. However, Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory based on five key
criteria:

1. Consistency with Country Strategy: The broad development objective of MIDP-2 was to help improve
infrastructure services as well as provide an enabling environment for private sector participation and to help set
the stage for the emergence of self-governing institutions. The latter was clearly defined in the RMIS and RMMS
implementation process. It was thus supportive of and wholly consistent with the Strategy for WB&G as
enunciated in Board Paper R98-96, dated April 28, 1998.

2. Project Design: The project design took into consideration several lessons learned from previous Bank and
donor interventions. Securing commitment of implementing agencies, readiness of infrastructure project designs
and construction permits, and provision up-front for in the project design for close supervision in the field are a
few examples. Also, the performance targets and indicators were simplified and less ambitious. However, though
the indicators were well defined, they lacked the baseline level to appropriately measure the project impact during
implementation and after completion. This is especially true when assessing the reduced transport and water
supply cost and when assessing the project's impact on the overall condition of the road and water networks.

3. Participation and Dialogue during Preparation: Discussions with PA institutions were both positive and
extensive during preparation. In particular, discussions with MOLG had been part of a wider and well received
sector reform dialogue ongoing since 1997.        Thus, MIDP-2 was designed to further support the PA's reform
process. With respect to MPWH, dialogue had been on-going since 1998. In fact, MPWH had earlier approached
the Bank for assistance in developing the road sector but no project vehicle was available at that time. MIDP-2 was




                                                         - 5 -

partly designed to fill this gap in both the PA's development portfolio.

4. Preparedness for Implementation: At appraisal, the first year of road and infrastructure projects were ready for
implementation, but the unanticipated Intifada in September 2000 shifted priorities and made implementation
extremely difficult. The water projects were also fully designed, but the required social impact analyses had not
been completed. The latter was made a condition of disbursement on this component, a source of some initial
delay. With respect to the MOLG components, these were continuation of well established initiatives, and were
ready for implementation at appraisal.

5. Project Risk Evaluation: The risks were reasonably well defined at appraisal, and were based on the (positive)
experience of the project team with similar efforts in WB&G since 1994. The substantial risks identified were:
the inability of MOLG and Ministry of Finance (MOF) to prepare and monitor projects on a timely basis; the
failure of MOLG and the SMs to devote sufficient time and resources to reform measures; and insufficient
managerial capacity at MPWH and MOLG. The appraisal team planned to mitigate these risk through dated
covenants, close on-ground supervision, training and operating support. A modest risk was identified with respect
to delays due to Israeli border closure--a recurring event since 1995. The team proposed the only known practical
mitigating measure--that of allowing enough "slack" in implementation programming and building up stockpiles
of key construction materials in addition to providing simplified procurement procedures, especially for small
works contracts as proposed and cleared by the procurement team. Needless-to-say, none of these quite reasonable
measures could have withstood the persistent and severe shock of the crisis.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of Objectives:6
The achievement of the formally revised objectives is rated satisfactory. This is based on the achievement of most
of the revised project objectives after project restructuring and satisfactory achievement of development targets.
Achievement on each objective is briefly discussed below. Further details are presented in Annex 1 and ratings are
specifically addressed in Annexes 1-C and 1-D.

Improving Infrastructural Services (Objective "1"): Prior to revision, progress towards objectives was satisfactory.
MPWH took all the required preparatory steps and, though lagging somewhat, PWA acted to meet their condition
of disbursement--the completion of a social assessment for its sub-component.             In the restructuring period,
progress towards formally revised objectives was also satisfactory. In particular, the project contributed towards an
increase in the percentage of roads that are in good condition while reducing travel time and transportation cost in
the areas served by 50-60 %. Supporting examples are as follows:

    l    In the Jenin Governorate (one of the areas with high rates of poverty in the West Bank), college students
         in the project area are now traveling about 8 km on average to access their university compared to nearly
         20 km prior to the road rehabilitation; taking 10 minutes compared to 40; and paying US$0.70 compared
         to US$1.8. Similarly, an average resident is now paying US$1.4 compared to US$2.5 to travel the same
         distance using public transportation. Likewise, in the Ramallah Governorate (West Bank), travel distances
         in the project area have been reduced from about 35 to 20 km reducing transportation cost from US$3.4 to
         US$1.6.

    l    In the Gaza Governorates (among the highest densely populated and most poverty stricken areas in the
         world) the rehabilitation of the Cemetery Road linking Jabalia Refugee Camp (pop. 150,000) with Gaza
         (pop. 400,000) reduced travel distance from 20 to 9 km, significantly reducing transport cost and time.
         This road also became critical when the Ash-Shuhada intersection (a key junction in the system) was
         blocked as part of the Israeli closure regime. Similarly, the rehabilitation of Road No. 4 (a part of the main
         north/south spine) significantly reduced travel distance and time, and vehicle operating cost. Furthermore,
         it lessened the traffic pressure on the Salah Eddin Road, the main road in Gaza linking northern and
         southern areas. Once again, this considerably reduced travel time and cost.

With respect to water supply:



                                                         - 6 -

    l    The network in Bidya contributed towards an increase in coverage --to nearly 90% of the town's
         population of 8,000. It also helped reduce water supply costs in the newly covered areas from about
         US$3.4 (primarily using water tankers) to US$0.8 per cubic meter from the new network. In addition, the
         new network helped increase the duration of daily water supply (to 24 hours); helped reduce the
         unaccounted-for-water losses from 40% at appraisal to less than 20%; and helped reduce the potential of
         cross contamination from sewage water. Further, PWA estimates that the cost of operation and
         maintenance of the water network has been reduced by about US$10,000 per year, and that in head loss
         due to leakage has been reduced to 15-20%. (The latter now compares favorably with International
         standards--acceptable percentage: 12% head loss.)

Strengthening Municipal and Central Governmental Capacity (Objective "2"): Prior to restructuring, progress
towards achievement of the objectives was only moderately satisfactory. The RMMS assignment was generally on
target and rated satisfactory. However, MOLG lagged significantly in organizing their Capacity Building Unit
(CBU), in finalizing terms of reference, and hiring local consultants for critical tasks. For this reason, in
September 2002 MOLG's progress towards its objectives was rated unsatisfactory by the Bank. Progress improved
towards the end of the year as more concrete steps were taken towards the achievement of the objective.

In the restructuring period, progress towards formally revised objectives improved somewhat but with mixed
results. Overall achievement was rated moderately unsatisfactory. With respect to the Central Government (
MPWH) capacity building objective, achievement was moderately satisfactory for the following reasons:

In the restructuring period, progress towards formally revised objectives improved somewhat but with mixed
results. Overall achievement was rated moderately unsatisfactory.

With respect to the Central Government (MPWH) capacity building objective,achievement was moderately
satisfactory for the following reasons:

On the negative side:
    l    Despite continued efforts, the RMMS assignment had to be eventually abandoned.7 This task was most
         directly impacted by the crisis as it became impossible to mobilize international consultants at a time
         when Israeli military incursion were taking place at and around the headquarter offices of MPWH in
         Ramallah, resulting in the area being closed for an extended time for security reasons.

On the positive side::
    l    The Bank's engagement with MPWH and the sector dialogue that was established helped to initiate a
         radical departure from past practices. Prior to MIDP-2, nearly all public works executed by MPWH were
         carried out under force account. MIDP-2 project design called for the use of private sector contractors,
         introducing market-based mechanisms to obtain competitive prices for contracts, establishing a
         transparent selection process and contract administration, and, over time, exposed MPWH to efficiency
         gains through outsourcing works activities. This learning experience is reflected in MPWH's current
         practice of outsourcing much of the work it currently oversees. This, in turn, generated interest by the
         donor community in channeling financial support through MPWH for rehabilitation work.

    l    The Ministry benefited considerably from its efforts in planning and preparing the assignment. Their
         engineers had to go twice through the process of preparing terms of reference (TORs) and request for
         proposals (RFPs), and reviewing proposals from international firms--a new experience for them and for
         the Ministry itself. The exercise forced them to review the problems of road maintenance management
         carefully and in detail, and also to examine the options and means for effectively addressing the issue.
         This learning represents an indirect benefit for MPWH.          In addition, MPWH gained considerable
         experience in the areas of procurement, project preparation, project financial management and
         accounting. Furthermore, MPWH gained from formal training in environmental review and monitoring,
         and reporting.

With respect to MOLG and LGs, achievement of the project objectives was unsatisfactory:



                                                        - 7 -

On the negative side:
    l     The investment-planning objective was dropped as a result of the restructuring, but the strengthening of
          municipal accounting systems objective was retained. Furthermore and after a joint assessment with
          MOLG, it was agreed that the accounting systems would be implemented in municipalities other than that
          in the appraisal document and rather concentrate on those that had been started earlier but not completed
          under the MIDP-1 and Bethlehem 2000 (B2000) projects;
    l     While there was considerable success in the West Bank by implementing the RMIS in the selected 5 Local
          Government Units (LGUs), Gaza proved problematic due apparently to task management (including
          procurement and implementation) difficulties--difficulties that probably could have been resolved by the
          MOLG headquarter team in Ramallah had reasonable access to their colleagues Gaza (they did not).

On the positive side:
    l     MOLG established an increasingly capable project support unit, especially in the West Bank. More
          importantly, the components in the West Bank were very favorably received by the participating
          municipalities who reported significantly increased control over billing and collection, increased revenues,
          and increased ability to respond to customer concerns. Further, the local private accounting and MIS
          systems providers accumulated considerable experience under the project--experience that led to
          significant improvements in the sophistication and user-friendliness of more recent system designs.

Repairing and restoring damaged public buildings and high priority infrastructure (Objective "3", new):
Considering what has been achieved in the very difficult environment, this project objective is rated highly
satisfactory:

    l     This intervention enabled key social service agencies to rapidly resume operations and continue providing
          vital services (health and education). It further allowed the key PA institutions (MPWH, MOLG, Ministry
          of Health (MOH), Ministry of Education (MOE), etc. ) to carry-out their responsibilities, primarily in
          assessing the scope of damage and preparing emergency strategies and response programs in coordination
          with the donor community. The emergency assistance also supported the repair of sections of key roads to
          facilitate access to people, goods and labor at a time when mobility was otherwise severely restricted.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Achievement of Outputs: The achievement of outputs of formally revised components and the project as a whole is
rated satisfactory.    Achievement with respect to each component is briefly discussed below. Further details are
presented in Annex 1, and ratings are specifically addressed in Annexes 1-C and 1-D.

Infrastructure (Component "I"): This component is rated satisfactory. In general, the disbursement rate rose
considerably in the post-restructuring period (see Annex 1-E), and all major physical outputs were substantially
achieved. In the earlier period, progress and disbursement had been hampered by widespread Israeli military
closures which sharply restricted the movement of people, goods and labor.

With respect to Component "I-A" (Roads), prior to restructuring, physical outputs were generally satisfactory.
Despite the difficulties, MPWH completed all the required preparatory steps and implemented one of the regional
road subprojects. In the restructuring period, outputs were again satisfactory. MPWH managed to successfully
complete the 2 subprojects (13.2 km) in the West Bank that were proposed under IDA funding, plus 2 others (3.4
km) in Gaza, which were later also incorporated into the damage repair program. The interventions were able to
generate some 18,000 person-days of employment.

With respect to sub-component "I-A(i)" Employment Generation, some 9,000 person-days were created; and while
there were no specific employment targets, output was deemed satisfactory in both periods given the time and
resources at hand. (It was also intended that the infrastructure and damage repair projects would optimize the
utilization of labor to the extent possible. This approach had generated around 50,000 person days of employment.)

With respect to Component "I-B" (Water), Performance during the post-restructuring period is deemed moderately



                                                           - 8 -

satisfactory. PWA successfully implemented the Bidya water subproject in the West Bank proposed for financing
under IDA, rehabilitating 13.7 kilometers, about 90% of the municipal network, considerably reducing system
losses and water supply costs as well as improved supply reliability in the project community.

With respect to Component "I-D" (Damage Repair--a new component), while there were no specific targets,
MPWH's performance and outputs were satisfactory. Given the constraints of wide-spread closures, time and
funding. Also, MPWH implemented the component efficiently, generally on time and within budget. The program
included: procurement of goods, supplies and furniture valued at approximately US$1 million. It also included
works valued at about US$3.3 million to rehabilitate local and regional roads, offices of Ministries at headquarters
and regional levels, schools, hospitals, and municipal and community buildings. Some of the key beneficiary
Ministries include Health, Education, Local Government, Public Works and Housing, Waqf (religious affairs and
endowments), Culture, Social Affairs, and Justice. Specific outputs include:

    l    The repair of damage to schools (98), hospitals (5) and key PA institutions (58) throughout the West Bank
         and Gaza contributed significantly towards sustaining essential public services;
    l    Rapid damage repair of schools helped minimize the number of lost school days;
    l    Repair of a regional hospital building for the mentally disabled in Bethlehem quickly restored the capacity
         of the administration to properly serve its patients;
    l    Rapid repair of damaged MPWH offices in several locations enabled the Ministry to respond to the crisis
         by mobilizing its staff in the field for damage assessment while others worked on the preparation of the
         tendering documents and conducting procurement; and
    l    Similarly, the repair program enabled MOLG officials to restore their capacity to communicate with the
         local authorities, to assess the impact of the crisis on service delivery, and respond quickly.

Capacity Building (Component "2"): This component is rated unsatisfactory. With respect to Component "II-A"
(Road Maintenance Programming), MPWH performed satisfactorily in the earlier period in preparing terms of
reference, inviting and evaluating bids. However, the next steps in contract negotiations and award could not be
performed due to the incursions which intensified in March/April 2002 and resulted in severe damage to MPWH's
headquarter offices in Ramallah, where all project documents where maintained. The strong commitment of
MPWH and with close dialogue with the Bank's team, MPWH re-issued a modified RFP in August 2003 but with
only one response. Unfortunately, the financial offer was much higher than the available funding which was
primarily due to the very difficult security and operating environment for international consultants. Subsequently,
this subcomponent was abandoned. With respect to Component "II-B" (Accounting System Reform) MOLG's
performance in the earlier period was unsatisfactory. Specifically, MOLG was very slow in establishing the
necessary supervisory arrangement. In the post-restructuring period, 5 LGUs in the West Bank successfully
implemented the RMIS. However, no implementation was possible in the 2 proposed Gaza LGUs, primarily due to
the inability of MOLG Gaza staff to adequately adhere to procurement guidelines. Intensive reviews by the Bank's
team of the selection process for consultants services have shown deviation from the guidelines and therefore no
objection to proceed with the selection would not be issued. This issue was raised with senior MOLG management
including the Minister who promised to review and rectify the shortcomings from his Gaza Staff. His review
pointed to the inability of staff to move, due to closures, between West Bank and Gaza and the resulted lack of
adequate communication between headquarter offices in Ramallah and the Gaza offices. An attempt to rectify this
by supporting the establishment of video conference facility to help mitigate such problems.

Incremental Operating Expenses (Component "3"): This component is rated satisfactory. MOLG and MPWH
performed well providing increasingly effective and timely consolidated technical and financial reports on
progress, maintaining adequate control of accounts and overall project monitoring.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was formally restructured in December 2002--significantly changing its composition. Also, because of
the inability to secure the planned cofinancing the total project cost was limited to the IDA share (US$7.5m). The
before and after situations are thus not strictly comparable. The analysis undertaken here focuses on the
restructured project. The quantifiable component is limited to infrastructure which constitutes about 94% of the
revised total project cost. It is limited even more narrowly to the roads components because of the difficulty in


                                                           - 9 -

obtaining reliable data for the others. A summary of the analysis is presented below. Further details are presented
in Annex 3. The ex-post economic evaluation of the quantifiable component shows a robust economic justification.
Assuming reasonably good maintenance of the rehabilitated roads (international roughness index (IRI) after
rehabilitation of 3.0 and a 10 year evaluation period) all road sections have an Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
higher than the cut-off rate of 12%. [Note: the 10 year span for roads is an average time specific to the West Bank
and Gaza primarily due to the relatively poor infrastructure (utility networks) and its upgrading is dependent on
availability of funds whether from internal or external (donors) resources]. The rates of return vary from 15% to
more than 100%, and the overall ERR for the quantifiable components is 55%. The Net Present Value (NPV) at a
12% discount rate is US$5.78 million, and an overall positive NPV per Investment Cost ratio of 1.73. When more
conservative assumptions are made with respect to maintenance (IRI of 3.5 instead of 3.0), three of the eleven road
sections fail to meet the 12 % target. However, the average ERR for the quantifiable components still exceeds 40%
and therefore the NPV is still very positive; and the NPV/Cost ratio is 1.1 is also positive.

                       For Roads Projects          Scenario #1: IRI @ 3.0       Scenario #2: IRI @ 3.5
                         ERR (Average)                      55%                          40%
                    NPV/Investment Cost Ratio               1.73                         1.1


While the focus of the analysis here is on roads, the other infrastructure components probably yielded significant
net benefits. For example: The water component was estimated at appraisal to yield rates of return averaging 29%
and, despite the data problems, there is no reason to believe that the yield on the completed sub-project was
significantly less than this given the large magnitude of cost savings through the competitive process (see Annex
3). The repair to schools and public buildings under the damage repair program was vital in putting these assets
back to work, and in helping to deliver vital education, health, judicial, infrastructural and administrative services.
In the context of the crisis, the social value of these services is likely to have been very high. The office equipment
replaced under the damage repair program was critical to the delivery of services noted above, and thus its social
value is also likely to have been high. The remaining (miscellaneous) component under the damage repair and
employment generation programs included items such as retaining walls and culverts that are known to have a
significantly positive value in preserving existing infrastructural assets. With respect to the capacity building
component (accounting system reform), it is probable that it yielded significantly positive net economic benefits in
the SMs in which the program was implemented. This is so given the outcomes reported by SMs--more accurate
and timely data enabling better financial planning and management and increased revenue yields for example. It is
thus reasonable to conclude that the project as a whole probably yielded significantly positive net benefits to
WB&G.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was modest, due largely to the constraints imposed by the crisis and the
resulting shift in focus from capacity building to damage repair. Nevertheless, there were at least four significant
positive impacts:

MPHW Learning: As a direct result of the project, MPWH staff gained considerable experience with developing,
managing, accounting for, and reporting on over 110 sub-projects. Further, they have become much more aware of
and determined to address the maintenance issue in future donor-funded operations. This was clearly noted by
MPWH officials in the ICR stake-holder workshop. Finally, MPWH states that, as a direct consequence of MIDP-2,
they began receiving a much greater share of PA budgetary allocations; and began attracting and effectively
managing some US$60 million equivalent of additional donor funding (from Islamic Development Bank (IDB),
United Arab Emirates (UAE), China, USA, and others) for damage repair and other road sector activities. This is
several times the funding they had been able to attract and/or manage before, and is an accomplishment that they
believe would probably have been unachievable without MIDP-2.

MOLG's PAU and MIS Units: These units, initiated under MIDP-1, became considerably more competent under



                                                          - 10 -

the project due to training, experience and support. The project accounting unit in fact went on to become the core
of the most recent Bank project in the sector, the Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project (EMSRP,
FY03; US$20 million). The Management Information System (MIS) unit is now the core of capacity building
initiatives at MOLG under a UNDP sponsored program. Building on the accomplishments of MIDP-1 & 2,
MOLG is undergoing significant change under the same UNDP sponsored program, and more is in store under the
Danish funded, Bank-administered and MOLG implemented Local Government Capacity Building Project
(LGCBP, FY05, about US$10 million equivalent) as well as the upcoming Bank's intervention, Municipal
Management and Service Delivery Project, planned for Board presentation in FY06 Q3. Unlike in the West Bank
based MOLG, Gaza's office adherence to the agreed work-plan and to Bank's procurement guidelines were not
consistent. This issue was clearly noted to senior MOLG officials who committed to rectify this at least through
building stronger communication between its headquarters and regional offices. The fact that MIDP-2 was about to
close it was unable to provide additional support but rather relied on the financing of LGCBP which was being
launched. Additional assessment of the capacities in Gaza will be performed through MMSDP and a mechanism to
extended such support will be designed.

SMs: The accounting systems reform program, while truncated, is already paying dividends to the participating
West Bank SMs. These LGUs report much better and timelier receipt of information with which can plan and
manage better, improve knowledge of and control over billing and collections, and greater receipts in five of the
seven cases. As one example, and according to the Mayor of Beit Jala, the system change from a manual and
in-efficient system to an automated one (RMIS) resulting in an increase in revenues from waste management
service fees from US$150,000 in year 2000 to US$240,000 in 2004.

Private Sector Learning: MIDP-2 provided the opportunity for private sector contractors in the construction sector
to initially sustain their existence in the early months of the Intifada and during the severe closure policy.
Similarly, the accounting and software private sector were strengthened and developed more complex billing and
collection systems with fewer technical flaws and increased functionality. The agenda that MIDP-2 was supporting
to reform the local government financial management systems have encouraged more businesses to be realized.
This has ended the monopoly of one of the leading firms and created market competition, improved quality and
lowered costs. This was evident in the two procurement activities carried out with a number of local firms bidding
with much improved quality of proposals and reduced cost (50% less in both cases).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The overriding and ultimately decisive factor was the Israeli military response to the Palestinian Intifada. This led
to the re-occupation of a number of Palestinian controlled areas, curtailment of the movement of people and goods,
devastation of the Palestinian economy, and the inability to implement key project sub-components. The key
impacts were, first, on the capacity building objectives, and second, on mobilizing some of the already secured
cofinancing.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A key factor is related to Value Added Tax (VAT) exemptions for contractors. This issue (which is not specific to
MIDP-2) arose because the Bank does not fund taxes. Thus, in cases where the bids included taxes the MOF had
either to provide the supplementary project funding to the concerned ministries or to exempt contractors from VAT
payments. It opted for the latter, but it took some time to put the necessary mechanism in place--causing some
delays in implementation. The issue was largely resolved by MOF's undertaking following the December 2001
(first) amendment to the Trust Fund Credit Agreement (TFCA).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There are three key factors here. Firstly, MOLG's inability to sort out the procurement issues with respect to the
accounting systems reforms proposed in Gaza. While this component was satisfactorily implemented in the West
Bank, Gaza was a failure. Part of the problem was MOLG's difficulty in communicating with and maintaining
control over its operations due to the closure regime. Another, is rather a deeper problem with the Gaza regional
office--a seeming autonomy that may be good in most circumstances, but militates against coherence in policy



                                                       - 11 -

making and implementation. Secondly, PWA's inability to timely secure the necessary requirements for house
connections to the new network. This provision and source connections to the new network in Bidya was not dealt
with by their management until very late in the implementation process. In addition, the Bank was not informed of
the issue until very late in the process. This resulted in delays in commissioning the new network and in the
realization of the benefits to the community. Thirdly, strong commitment within MPWH to fully understand and
comply with the project design and Bank's procurement and financial guidelines have been key for the successful
implementation of the various roads, employment generation activities and damage repair projects.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was effectively managed by the MPWH, PWA and MOLG, and most sub-projects were completed
within the available budget. The core issue here was the loss of expected cofinancing due, as already noted, to
policy changes by the Saudi Fund and the Government of Italy following the onset of the Intifada. This reduced
available project funding from the planned US$26m to share of US$7.5m. As a result, a major impact on original
road and water improvement objectives were experienced requiring major scaling back of objectives and outputs.
Significant changes were made in December 2002 and November 2004. Details of these changes are presented in
Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely.     This is due primarily to the improved capacity at the participating institutions (despite some
short-comings) and to economic factors. On the negative side are MPWH's short-coming (due largely to force
majeur) to achieve even the reduced road maintenance management objectives, and MOLG's problems in fully
achieving the municipal accounting objectives. There are several positive factors however.

First, institutional:

   l      MPWH developed its capacity to respond quickly and effectively to emergencies related to infrastructure
          rehabilitation and institutional damage repair. As noted above, its staff are now capable of preparing,
          tendering, contracting and supervising a vast number of contracts with satisfactory level of financial
          management and accounting. The acquired capacity has led to an increased central government funding
          as well as an increased interest from other donors in dealing with MPWH.

   l      Towards the end of the project, MOLG developed a MIS Unit with much improved capacity in preparing
          terms of reference and specifications for implementing similar assignments. This will be further supported
          by a recent contribution from the Danish Government which focuses in part on financial management
          systems development, as well as by Bank's undergoing preparation of a follow-up project in supporting
          the ministry's research and policy formulation unit. The Bank will also support policy formation and
          implementation capacity building for municipal development programs.

   l      PWA developed capacity to plan and administer water projects of multi dimension and funding sources.
          This is important as very few donors are interested in providing financing to a comprehensive systems
          that are considered quite costly.

   l      The Damage Repair component enabled the many important institutions that benefited to restore their
          capacity and sustain their ability to deliver critical public services, even in the conflict stricken situation.

Second, economic:

   l      Even on conservative assumptions, the ex-post economic evaluation indicates a robust economic
          justification of the quantifiable project investments (average ERR greater than 40%).

   l      An overall 50% to 60% reduction in travel time and cost as well as water supply cost and losses in the
          network. This is likely to be sustained with the commitment of the receiving municipalities to further
          develop and keep up investment and maintenance plans especially in Bidya municipality.




                                                           - 12 -

Finally, the current Bank support under EMSRP as well as donor parallel financing totaling $100 million, are
helping provide support for service delivery and maintenance of infrastructure including roads. Current and
forthcoming support for capacity building under various donor funded programs (particularly the Bank
administered Danish Trust Fund and World Bank Municipal Management and Service Delivery Project (MMSDP),
see below) as well as other funds from Japan and Germany in the area of planning and maintenance programming
will help to ensure the sustainability of the achieved benefits.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
 The key issue here is the abatement of the crisis. If this can be achieved, the experience gained by MPWH, PWA,
MOLG, SMs and the private sector accounting systems consultants be put to good use. For example, MPWH is
now in a much stronger position to evaluate sector problems, and to prepare, manage, and report on major projects.
Further, MPWH is much more conscious of the need to focus on maintenance and carrying out, though not in a
systematic way, such maintenance and upgrading utilizing central government and donors funds. With respect to
MOLG, a more concrete realization is presented by the Bank in support of the recently adopted sector reform
agenda. The on-going EMSRP, its cofinancing Danish Trust Fund for LGCBP (administered by the Bank) and the
in-preparation MMSDP will continue the agenda of reform as laid out by MIDP-1 and continue to focus on
building capacities at both MOLG and local authorities in policy formulation, urban and investment planning and
financial management system reform.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The project team at appraisal was well rounded and had the necessary knowledge to assess PA needs
and design an operation that adequately responded to them. The team consisted of both HQ based and local staff
which enriched the team with clear understanding of the political environment, key challenges facing
implementation and institutional capacities. The project was particularly responsive to MPWH's desperate need of
technical and financial support to enable them fulfill its mandate. Moreover, the project design focused the PA and
donor attention on the needs of the regional road system and to the greatly neglected issue of maintenance. Thus,
the Bank was very responsive here.         With respect to the MOLG component, the lessons of MIDP-1 were
internalized and reflected in simpler project design and more modest objectives. The only possibly contentious
issue was the overestimation of the likely availability cofinancing (crisis-foresight having been ruled out).
However, even here the design team was not being unrealistic. Both the Saudi Fund and the Government of Italy
had participated enthusiastically and successfully in earlier (fore-runner) projects, and both had given
commitments to participate in MIDP-2. It seems clear that their change of mind was due largely to the crisis.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The supervision team, which was primarily stationed in the field, was resourceful and responsive
throughout. In particular, when the crisis of the Intifada broke in September 2000, the team moved quickly to
reallocate funds to emergency employment generation in response to PA requests. Later, they moved effectively to
scale back and reduce the scope of the capacity building components, to focus on damage repair, and to simplify
procurement procedures to facilitate implementation. Further, they were effective in providing advice and support
to implementing agencies and in keeping control of the project. In particular, they were pro-active and creative in
facilitating local training in procurement, report writing, project accounting, information systems (Oracle) and
environmental assessment, and in providing local consulting support in accounting systems reform to the SMs in
the West Bank and in Gaza.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory due to the following reasons:
       l    Good understanding of clients needs;
       l    Timely shift in focus from rehabilitation to economic recovery and development;
       l    Rapid response with restructuring to address changing priorities and urgent needs.




                                                         - 13 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. MPWH was very actively involved during project preparation, cooperated effectively with the Bank,
and took steps to ensure effective project selection, design and contract documentation. Further, they took effective
steps to strengthen their accounting and financial management capability in preparation for implementation. PWA
was similarly cooperative, and was already a competent organization. MOLG was more problematic, not having
performed very effectively under MIDP-1. However, even here they were very cooperative and anxious to build on
the lessons learned during the earlier project--at least, not to repeat earlier mistakes.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. In general, the PA (represented by MOF) was supportive and met most of their project obligations
effectively and on time. In addition, as noted above, MOF handled the nagging VAT refund issue well.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Nearly 85% of project funds were managed by MPWH, which performed satisfactorily--driven by a
will to overcome their late start as an effective PA institution. As noted, MPWH implemented the infrastructure
projects effectively and provided increasingly better and more comprehensive reports. In addition, MPWH
satisfactorily procured over 110 sub-projects, and prepared RFP for the RMMS component as well experienced the
evaluation of proposals--learning considerably in the process. Further, MPWH coordinated very well with the
main project accounting unit (PAU) at MOLG. PWA, on the other hand, performed well in project preparation
and initial implementation, but lapsed with respect to the house connection issue noted above. Finally, MOLG's
performance was unsatisfactory despite the limited achievement at the end of the project. Though its PAU
functioned very effectively with respect to project accounting, monitoring and reporting, the Gaza project
management team failed to comply with project requirements and thus failed to deliver the planned outputs. More
positively, the Ministry itself was extremely cooperative, and since 2003 it moved quickly under a new Minister to
plot a new and more positive course. This includes completion of a detailed Reform Action Plan for the sector, with
the assistance of UNDP and the Government of Japan.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. On balance, the client cooperated well with the project team in all stages. The client was responsive
in meeting the conditions at the early stages of the project in a timely fashion and was collaborative during
implementation especially during the period of project restructuring and the various formal amendments. The
client has shown commitment to the project and to the facilitation of challenges which faced implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons have been learned which should benefit the design and development of future projects. The most
important are the following:

1. Operating under difficult circumstances: There is a need to be flexible and responsive with respect to
     sub-project selection and procurement arrangements--simplifying procedures and decentralizing responsibility
     to the extent possible. By attending, to the above MPWH (with Bank assistance) was able to implement
     effectively even under difficult circumstances.

2. Obtaining firm up-front commitments on critical issues: The issue related to lack of local contribution for
     water connections in Bidya underlines the importance of obtaining firm commitments from local partners
     prior to implementing components that (partly) depend on their inputs. At minimum, fall-back mechanisms
     should be identified ahead of time.

3. Capacity building even under adversity: Significant capacity building can be achieved even during crisis and,
     in fact, partly because of crisis. This is particularly so if the participating institutions are accountable and have
     a strong incentive to perform. MPWH's capacity was built on-the-job, based on strong leadership and a
     determination to establish itself as an organization. This drove their significant achievement.



                                                           - 14 -

4. Private sector learning: The experience with the accounting systems reform over two projects (MIDP-1 and
     2) demonstrates that significant learning can take place-- to the overall benefit of the project and the SMs.
     Such learning led to a considerable improvement in the sophistication of the design and implementation of the
     component as well as incentive to the private sector to become more active and responsive to the needs.

5. Responsiveness and close on-ground Bank supervision: Significant progress can be made even in a very
     difficult environment if adequate local leadership exists, and if the Bank team is sensitive and responsive to
     the problems and takes quick and decisive action. This can occur most effectively when there is close
     on-ground Bank supervision and excellent relations with clients--as there generally is in WBG.

6. Building good Monitoring and Evaluation System including relevant set of indicators that enables proper
     monitoring, regular updating and capabilities of assessing impacts of projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments were received from MPWH, MOLG, MOF, and PWA, in the period February 26 ­ March 3, 2005.
Official partners comments are attached in Annex 9. In summary, MIDP-2 was largely viewed by the PA as a
successful project that has not only been able to address much needed municipal infrastructural needs, but also
managed to respond flexibly to the changing situation on the ground and the shifts in community needs towards
much needed damage repair, as well as employment. The PA institutions commended the project's flexibility in
design, as well as the Bank's responsiveness to emergency assistance, and expressed satisfaction with the projects
ability to provide in-house capacities to the implementing partners. The PA recommended that the municipal fiscal
systems continue to be empowered and modernized through future initiatives. The PA also commented that despite
the fact that the regional road management system has not been implemented, the program was still a much needed
priority, especially in the lack of a systematic approach to financing road management and rehabilitation in
WB&G. The PA also appreciated the MIDP-2 initiative to address water shortage needs, and insured that the
benefits of MIDP-2 would continue to be realized following the completion of additional phases of the Bidya water
project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

A stake-holder workshop was held on February 22, 2005, the minutes of which are presented in Annex 8. The
response of stake-holders was generally very positive. There was a consensus that: the change in project objectives
and components was necessary and timely in view of the situation at the time; the damage repair, infrastructure
rehabilitation and employment generation components were successful; considerable capacity building had taken
place, particularly at MPWH; and that the accounting systems reform program, while limited, was vital and will
pay significant dividends. They further agreed that (referring to Bidya) it was essential to make sure that
commitments on all components that were vital to sub-project success be addressed at the early stage of the project;
the Gaza MOLG accounting system problem should be urgently addressed; there was an urgent need for securing
additional funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation; and to continue to seek to develop RMMS. Finally,
the workshop agreed that the Bank performed well and was very helpful and responsive during both preparation
and supervision. The minutes of the workshop are presented at Annexes 8, and additional relevant social and
economic impact information is presented at Annex 10.




                                                        - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



 Hierarchy of Objectives    Indicator/Target     Unit    Target  Achievement            Comment
Project       Development
Objective:
Original
1.     Improved           Reduced              US$/km     na    Reduced by   Substantially Achieved:
municipal infrastructure  transportation costs                   50 - 60%    Transport fees in the project
service coverage and                                                         areas have dropped by
quality; increased                                                           50-60% while travel time has
accessibility. Improved                                                      dropped by as much as 75%
environment for private                                                      in certain areas.
investment.
                          Reduced water          %        na       from      Substantially Achieved:
                          losses                                 40-50% -    PWA currently estimates
                                                                 15-20%      head loss by approximately
                                                                             15-20%. According to PWA
                                                                             analysis, this compares
                                                                             favorably with International
                                                                             standards (Acceptable
                                                                             percentage: 12% head loss)
                          Reduced water        $/cm       na    From 3.4 to  Substantially Achieved:
                          supply costs;                             0.8      Bank share only
                                                                             implemented due to
                                                                             cofinancing shortfall. PWA
                                                                             estimates a reduction of
                                                                             water supply costs on the
                                                                             Bidia municipality by at least
                                                                             10%, in addition to reduction
                                                                             in the cost of operation and
                                                                             maintenance of the water
                                                                             network by US$10,000 per
                                                                             year
                          Increased period     hrs/day    na    From 0 ­ 24  Substantially Achieved:
                          (hrs/ day) of                                      90% of Bidya's population
                          reliable supply.                                   are now receiving 24 hour
                                                                             piped water in comparison to
                                                                             intermittent or tracked water
                                                                             .
2.     Build municipal    Increased LG           na       na      5 LGUs     LGUs having RMIS through
and central governmental  revenue and cost                                   MIDP-2 include Ar-Ram,
capacity; and reform and  recovery;                                          Beit Jala, Beit Sahour,
strengthen municipal                                                         Al-Khader, Ad-Doha
systems.
                          Increased              na       na        na       Not Achieved:
                          decentralization                                   Due to formal restructuring
                          and corporization
                          of services
                          provision and
                          delivery;




                                               - 16 -

                          Improved               na      na    na    Not Achieved:
                          maintenance                                Due to formal restructuring
                          programming at
                          central (MPWH)
                          and local (SMs)
                          level.
Formally Revised
1-R     Improved                                                     Substantially Achieved:
municipal infrastructure                                             See component below.
service coverage and                                                 Informal emergency
quality; increased                                                   employment generation
accessibility. Improved                                              objective also substantially
environment for private                                              achieved.
investment. (Scope
reduced.)
2-R     Strengthen                 na            na      na    na    Partially Achieved:
municipal accounting                                                 See component below. 3 out
systems. (Scope reduced                                              of 6 SMs completed.
significantly).
3-R     Emergency                  na            na      na          Substantially Achieved:
Damage Repair. (Major                                                See component below.
new objective.)
Output       from     each
component:
Original
I. Improved Infrastructure
and services:
I-A     MPWH: regional                                               Not Achieved:
roads network;            1) Increase in % of % change         na    Targets could not be
                          regional road                              achieved due mainly to
                          network in good                            cofinancing not
                          condition;                                 materializing.
                          2) Main, access       km       na    67    Substantially Achieved:
                          and internal roads                         Bank share only
                          rehabilitated;                             implemented due to
                          and/or                                     cofinancing shortfall.
                           3) Main, access    yr 2: km   50    na
                          and internal roads
                          maintained
                          annually (yr. end);
                                              yr 3: km   90    na
                                              yr 4: km   126   na
                          Bank share:         % change   na    na    na
                          1) Increase in % of
                          regional       road
                          network in good
                          condition;
                          2)  Main,    access   km       na    na    na
                          and internal roads
                          rehabilitated;
                          and/or
                          3)  Main,    access yr 2: km  15.4   Na    Fully achieved:



                                               - 17 -

                            and internal roads                            The planned roads in the
                            maintained                                    West Bank were improved,
                            annually (yr. end);                           along with two additional
                                                                          roads in Gaza.
                                                yr 3: km    na     Na
                                                yr 4: km    na     16.6
I-B      PWA:     municipal Total:              yr 2: km    10      0     Not Achieved:
water supply, drainage and Water pipes laid                               Targets could not be
sanitation services.        annually (cum. yr.                            achieved due mainly to
                            end);                                         cofinancing not
                                                                          materializing.
                                                yr 3: km    25     13.7
                                                yr 4: km    44.7   13.7
                            Bank Share:          yr 2: km   na      0     Substantially achieved:
                            Water pipes laid                              Bidia Water network
                            annually (cum. yr.                            rehabilitation project was
                            end);                                         implemented over an
                                                                          8-month period, starting on
                                                                          December 21, 2002 and
                                                                          ending on September 23,
                                                                          2003.
                                                yr 3: km    11.5   13.7
                                                yr 4: km    11.5   13.7
II. Capacity Building
II.-A MPWH: Increased A.1) Establishment          yr end     3     na     Not achieved:
central        Government of capable and well completion                  RMMS was cancelled, due to
capacity: MPWH capacity staffed            road                           restrictions on movement and
to manage and maintain maintenance                                        difficulty of implementation
the road network under its programming,                                   imposed by the political
jurisdiction,     including management      and                           instability. Funding was
Environmental               monitoring                                    reallocated towards the
Management.                 units/departments                             damage repair program.
                            in MPWH;
                            A.2) Timely           yr end     3     na
                            preparation of      completion
                            realistic and
                            sustainable annual
                            road maintenance
                            by MPWH;
                            A.3) percent of     end Yr 3:   50     na
                            primary &               %
                            secondary road
                            network for which
                            a long-term
                            maintenance
                            program has been
                            developed;
                                                End Yr 4:   100    na
                                                    %
                            A.4) Percent of     Yr 3: %    60-70   na
                            routine & periodic
                            maintenance on



                                                 - 18 -

             the primary &
             secondary road
             network done by
             contract (end yr);
                                  Yr 4: %     80-85   na
             B.1) Establishment   month end    2            Partially achieved:
             of an                completion                Formal unit not established
             Environmental                                  but 25 engineers from
             Monitoring Unit at                             MPWH offices in WB &
             MPWH within 2                                  Gaza involved in road design
             months of                                      and implementation received
             effectiveness;                                 training by an independent
                                                            contractor: Environmental
                                                            aspects related to project
                                                            designing and
                                                            implementation.
             B.2) Preparation of  month end    6      na    Partially achieved:
             environmental        completion                Consultancy services were
             guidelines for                                 employed to prepare
             contractors within                             environmental guidelines for
             6 months of                                    contractors,
             effectiveness; and
             B.3) Completion of     yr end     1      na    Not Achieved:
             training workshop    completion                Program of training not
             for MPWH                                       implemented, largely due to
             contractors ;                                  crisis and change in overall
                                                            project priorities
II-B SMs:    Installation of        yr end      6     3     Partially Achieved:
             modern,              completion:               3 out of 6 SMs completed.
             computerized,         no. SMs                  Others        (Gaza)        not
             accrual-based                                  implemented        due       to
             accounting                                     procurement difficulties.
             systems;                                       (see additional data in table
                                                            1-A (i) below)
             Preparation of         yr end     3      na    Not Achieved:
             realistic and        completion                Component abandoned due
             sustainable annual                             to restructuring.
             infrastructure
             investment
             programs;
             Annual % increase      Ann. %     na     na    Not Achieved:
             in cost recovery on    increase                Component abandoned due
             municipal services;   end Yr 3;                to restructuring.

             Beginning of           yr end     3      na    Not Achieved:
             corporization of     completion                Component abandoned due
             key services                                   to restructuring.
             (water, electricity,
             sanitation).




                                    - 19 -

 Revised
I-C         Damage          repair na                                 na               na        Total of 161          Fully Achieved:
(major).                                                                                         public                Despite not having specific
                                                                                                 buildings             targets, the program is
                                                                                                 repaired: 98          deemed by MPWH and Bank
                                                                                                 educational           supervision staff to have
                                                                                                 facilities            achieved its objectives.
                                                                                                 (schools,             Program included goods,
                                                                                                 universities),        supplies, and furniture (for
                                                                                                 58 public             approximately US$1 million)
                                                                                                 offices               in replacement of damaged
                                                                                                 rehabilitated,        furniture and supplies, in
                                                                                                 including             addition to works (US$2
                                                                                                 municipal and         million) in the rehabilitation
                                                                                                 PA, 5                 of damages to roads
                                                                                                 hospitals, 46.5 (internal/regional), Offices of
                                                                                                 km of roads           ministries at the headquarters
                                                                                                 rehabilitated         and regional level, schools,
                                                                                                                       hospitals, municipalities,
                                                                                                                       etc... Additional beneficiary
                                                                                                                       ministries were Ministry of
                                                                                                                       Waqf (endowments),
                                                                                                                       Ministry of Culture, Ministry
                                                                                                                       of Social Affairs, and
                                                                                                                       Ministry of Justice.
I-A.1                Emergency No. of short-term                   Person              na         9,000                Fully Achieved:
employment            generation jobs created                       days                         person-days*          Despite not having specific
(minor)                                                                                                                targets, the program is
                                                                                                                       deemed by MPWH and Bank
                                                                                                                       supervision staff to have
                                                                                                                       achieved its objectives.

* Note: In total, about 81,000 person-days of employment generated. This includes about 9, 000 from job creation, 18,000 from regional roads, and
54,000 from damage repair.




                                                                    - 20 -

Annex 1-B: RMIS Components Required and Implemented, by Participating Municipality
                          (Phases I and II)

Table 1: West Bank Phase I and Phase II Municipalities and the Services needed per Module.

Modules                       Beit   Beit   Al-     Al-   Al-   Jericho   Tulk   Dura   Hebron Jenin
                             Sahour  Jala   Khader Doha   Ram             arem
Water                                                            X          X      X      X     X
Electricity                                                                 X      X      X     X
Building and Licensing        X       X     X        X     X      X         X      X      X     X
Profession and Occupancy      X       X     X        X     X      X         X      X      X     X
Education Tax                 X       X     X        X            X         X      X      X     X
Garbage Fees                  X       X     X        X     X      X         X      X      X     X
Billboard                     X       X     X        X            X         X      X      X     X
Property Tax                                X        X     X                       X      X     X
Municipal property rent       X       X              X     X     X          X      X      X     X
Slaughter house               X       X                          X          X             X     X
Municipal court                             X                    X          X             X     X
Car parking                                                                 X             X
Irrigation Water Fees                                             X
WW Pumping Fees                                                   X
Electricity Fees                                                  X
Mice Tax
Administration Tax
House Tax
Wastewater Fees                                            X                X             X
Certificate Fees                      X                    X
Beit Hanoun Terminal
Revenues
Personal Tax                                X
Insurance Fees                              X
General Tax
Building Annual Tax
Market, Engineering,
Miscellaneous Fees
Fees for Street Lightening,           X                    X                              X
Vehicle Inspection, Fire
Fighting, Etc.
Total Number of               7        9     9       7     8      13       12      9     14     11
Required Modules
Total Modules                 7        9     9       7     8      0         0      0      0     0
Implemented
Percentage of Modules        100      100   100     100   100     0         0      0      0     0
Implemented.




                                                   - 21 -

Table 2: Gaza Phase I and Phase II Municipalities and the Services needed per Module

Gaza strip Municipalities Current Utilities &    Rafah      Beit       Nusairat  Beit     Deir
Services                                                    Lahia                Hanon    Al-balah
Water                                               X           X         X        X          X
Electricity

Building and Licensing                              X           X         X        X          X
Profession and Occupancy                            X           X         X        X          X
Education Tax                                       X
Garbage Tax                                         X           X         X                   X
Billboard                                           X           X         X        X
Property Tax                                        X           X         X        X
Municipal property rent                             X           X         X        X          X
Slaughter house                                     X
Municipality court

Car parking                                         X                              X
Mice Tax                                                        X                  X
Administration Tax                                  X           X                  X
House Tax

Wastewater Fees                                     X           X
Certificate Fees                                                                   X
Beit Hanon Terminal Revenues

Personal Tax

Insurance Fees

General Annual Tax                                                                            X
Building Annual Tax                                             X                             X
Rent Tax                                            X                              X
Market, Engineering, Miscellaneous Fees

Total Number of Modules                             13         11          7       11         7
Modules Implemented                                 0           0          0       0          0
Percentage of Modules Implemented                   0           0          0       0          0


Annex 1-C: Revisions to Components and Changing Importance of Objectives and Components

Changes in Components

The scope and relative importance of objectives and components changed during implementation. These changes
are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below. The data are based on three sources:

§ ThePADdatedMay16,2000;
§ ThesecondamendmenttotheCreditAgreementdatedDecember10,2002whichreflectstheformal
     restructuring of the project as approved by the Board in August 2002;
§ ThethirdamendmenttotheCreditAgreementdatedNovember4,20048.




                                                       - 22 -

Table 1: Absolute Distribution of Funding of Project Components, Including Amendments

                                                                                    Bank
                                                     Total         Bank Share       Share       Bank Share
                                                                                    Dec 02        Nov 04
                                                     PAD             PAD           Amend         Amend
 I.    Infrastructur Improvement
   I-A   Regional Roads                              18.1             2.8            2.8           2.0
   I-B   Water Distribution Networks                  3.1             0.7            0.5           0.5
   I-C   Damage Repair                                                               3.1           4.3
                                                     21.2             3.5            6.4           6.8
 II.   Capacity Building
   II-A  MPWH                                         1.9             1.6            0.1           0.0
   II-B MLG                                           2.5             2.1            0.9           0.5
                                                      4.4             3.7            1.0           0.6
 III.   Incremental Operating Expenses                0.4             0.3            0.2           0.1

 Total                                               26.0             7.5            7.5           7.5




Table 2: Absolute and Percent Change in Project Components

 Component                                  Absolute Change                 Percent Change           Action

                                                   Dec 02/    PAD/    PAD/De    Dec 02/    PAD/
                                     PAD/Dec 02    Nov 04    Nov 04     c 02    Nov 04    Nov 04
 I.    Infrastructure
 Improvement
 I-A   Regional Roads                                -0.77    -0.77              -28%      -28%  Modest decrease
 I-B   Water Distribution Networks     -0.20                  -0.20    -29%                -29%  Modest decrease
                                                                                                   Major new
 I-C   Damage Repair                   3.05          1.22      4.27              40%                initiative

                           subtotal    2.85          0.45      3.30     81%       7%       94%   Major increase
 II.   Capacity Building
 II-A  MPWH                            -1.50         -0.07    -1.57    -94%      -70%      -98%   Major decrease
 II-B  MLG                             -1.20         -0.37    -1.57    -57%      -41%      -75%   Major decrease

                           subtotal    -2.70         -0.44    -3.14    -73%      -44%      -85%  Major decrease
 III.   Incremental Operating
 Expenses                              -0.15         -0.01    -0.16    -50%      -7%       -53%   Major decrease

 Total                                                                                             No change

 Totals may not add due to rounding




                                                          - 23 -

Relative Importance of Objectives and Components

From the perspective of the overall distribution of funds, road infrastructure improvement was the highest priority
initially (about 80 percent). From the perspective of the Bank's share of funding, infrastructure improvement and
capacity were of roughly equal weight. This is consistent with a strategy that has been pursued in other Bank
projects in WBG for some time, notably [the first Gaza Water and Sanitation Project] in which the Bank focused
on reform and capacity building while inviting cofinancing partners to assist in supporting the physical
investments. In this context, the Bank often weights the reform and capacity building ahead of the physical
investment. The text of the PAD reinforces this view by making it clear that institutional reform was a key
objective. However, the PAD also indicates the achievements aimed at were relatively modest:

          MIDP-2 seeks to support reforms at both central and local levels by engaging ministries and municipalities in a dialogue on the
          improvement and reform of local service delivery, and by initiating those reforms where possible. In one key area, however, MIDP-2 is
          breaking new ground. This is the long neglected area of maintenance programming in the road sector. But even here, the objectives are
          relatively modest.
                                                                                                                                     (PAD, p6.)

The PAD also goes on to note that major national reform in the local government sector was not an objective.
However, gradually continuing to spread the local reforms in accounting, management and service delivery begun
under MIDP-1 to additional municipalities was. Thus, we may conclude that the Bank's capacity building
objectives were important but not substantially more so than infrastructure improvement. Thus, a 60:40 percent
overall subjective weighting of initial infrastructure and capacity building objectives does not seem unreasonable.
As noted above, objectives changed significantly during the period in response to the very difficult environment.
Thus by December 2002, damage repair had formally become the dominant project objective, and this dominance
increased somewhat over time, largely at the expense of capacity building. Within capacity building, the virtual
impossibility of implementing the road maintenance programming objective due to Israeli stranglehold of the road
network resulted in the virtual abandonment of this objective by December 2002. Capacity building was thus
reduced to quite modest aims with respect to local government accounting systems reform. The relative changes in
Objectives and components are summarized in Tables 3-4, and in Figure 1.


Table 3: Distribution of Components, and Subjective evaluation of Importance of Components and
Objectives

                                                        Distribution of Funds (%)                 Subjective Indication from Texts (%)
                                                 Total                 IDA Share                  Total                IDA Share

                                                 PAD          PAD         Dec 02      Nov 04      PAD          PAD       Dec 02     Nov 04

   I.    Infrastructure Improvement
   I-A   Regional Roads                           70%         37%          37%         27%        50%          40%        30%         25%

   I-B   Water Distribution Networks              12%          9%           7%          7%        10%          10%         5%         5%
   I-C   Damage Repair                                                     40%         57%                                50%         60%
                                   subtotal      82%          47%          85%         91%        60%          50%        85%         90%

   II.   Capacity Building
   II-A  MPWH Cap Building                        7%          21%           1%          0%        20%          25%         5%
   II-B  MLG Cap Building                         10%         28%          12%          7%        20%          25%        10%         10%
                                   subtotal      17%          49%          13%          7%        40%          50%        15%         10%

   III.   Incremental Operating Expenses          2%           4%           2%          2%

   Total                                         100%        100%         100%         100%      100%         100%       100%        100%




                                                                   - 24 -

Figure 1: Assessment of Priorities
  (a) Assessment based on allocation of funds                                     (b) Subjective Assessment based on PAD and project
                                                                                  documentation


      80%                                                                            80%

      70%                                                                            70%

      60%                                                                            60%

      50%                                                                            50%

      40%                                                                            40%

      30%                                                                            30%

      20%                                                                            20%

       10%                                                                           10%

        0%                                                                            0%
                 PAD            PAD          Dec 02          Nov 04                            PAD          PAD      Dec 02          Nov 04

                 Total                     IDA Share                                          Total                 IDA Share

       I-A Regional Roads              I-B Water Distribution Networks                I-A Regional Roads         I-B Water Distribution Networks

       I-C Damage Repair               II-A MPWH Cap Building                         I-C Damage Repair          II-A MPWH Cap Building

       II-B MLG Cap Building           III. Incremental Operating Expenses            II-B MLG Cap Building




Objectives: Based on a review of the PAD and other project documents, the relative importance of objectives over
the project period was approximately as follows:

Table 4(a): Subjective Assessment of Changing Importance of Project Objectives over Time by
Sub-Objective.

 Objective                                                        PAD           Second Amendment                    Third Amendment
                                                               May 00*               Nov 02*                               Dec 04
    1. Infrastructure                                               60                    85                                     90
    improvement
 o          Roads                                                   50                    30                                     30
o           Water                                                   10                     5
 o          Damage Repair                                            -                    50                                     60
 2. Capacity Building                                               40                    15                                     10
 o          Road Maintenance                                        20                     5                                      -
o           Accounting Systems                                      10                    10                                     10
 o          LG Investment Plans                                     10                     -                                      -
    Total                                                          100                   100                                    100
Notes: * Formal revision. Used in assessing achievement of objectives, see Annex 1-D.

Based on the above, the estimated relative importance pre- and post the formal restructuring of the project was
approximately as follows.

                                                                                                  9
Table 4(b): Relative Importance of Objectives Pre- and Post Revision
 Objective                                                                                                    Pre-Revision          Post-Revision
                                                                                                                 PAD                      Dec 02
             1-Rev.         Improve infrastructural services (roads, water, drainage and                          50%                       35%
             sewerage) to and within villages and municipalities in WBG, and preserve
             existing infrastructural assets;
             2-Rev.         Strengthen municipal accounting systems and central govt. capacity;                   50%                       15%
             3-New. Repair damage to and restoration of Public Buildings and high                                    -                      50%
             priority infrastructure.
 Overall                                                                                                         100%                      100%




                                                                            - 25 -

The above weighting of objectives at December 2002--the date of the amendment of the Credit Agreement to
reflect the formal restructuring of the project--is used as the basis for assessment in Annex 1-D.

Components: The assessment of the importance of components is based on the relative share of costs outlined in
Table 5. Unlike objectives, the date used for the assessment of components is taken as November 04, the date of the
last significant formal change in project components.

Table 5: Distribution of Components, and Subjective evaluation of Importance of Components and
               10
Objectives

                                                                             Pre-Revision               Post-Revision
                                                                                  Total                  IDA Share

                                                                                 PAD*              Dec 02              Nov 04*

  I.     Infrastructure Improvement
  I-A    Regional Roads                                                            70%              37%                  27%

  I-B    Water Distribution Networks                                               12%              7%                    7%
  I-C    Damage Repair                                                                              40%                  57%
                                                                  subtotal        82%               85%                  91%

  II.   Capacity Building
  II-A   MPWH Cap Building                                                         7%               1%                    0%
  II-B MLG Cap Building                                                            10%              12%                   7%
                                                                  subtotal        17%               13%                  7%

  III.   Incremental Operating Expenses                                            2%               2%                    2%

  Total                                                                          100%              100%                 100%


* Used in the assessment of outputs in Annex 1-D.


Annex 1-D: Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Objectives

In order to assess the achievement of objectives, it is useful to have some sense of the relative weight of
sub-objectives and components. The PAD did not clearly specify this. However, it may be partially inferred (albeit
subjectively) from the distribution of funding, the PAD text and other project documents. In examining this issue,
it is also necessary to take separate account of the original overall project structure and components, as well as the
Bank's contribution. This assessment is summarized in Annex 1-D.

In accordance with recent Bank Guidelines11, the achievement on both original and formally revised project
objectives and components were assessed.                      These individual assessments were then weighted based on
disbursement shares during the respective periods in order to arrive at an overall rating. The results of the
assessment are summarized in Tables 1(a) to 1(c) below.

Table 1(a): Achievement of Objectives (Quantitative Assessment of summary)

Objective                                       Original                  Formally Revised                   Overall
                                              (Pre-Dec 02)                 (Post-Dec 02)
1.          Infrastructure                     satisfactory                  satisfactory                   satisfactory
rehabilitation
2. Capacity Building                     moderately Satisfactory        moderately unsatisfactory     moderately unsatisfactory

3. Damage Repair                                     -                    highly satisfactory            highly satisfactory
Overall                                 Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory




                                                                  - 26 -

Table 1(b): Quantitative Assessment of Achievement of Original and Formally Revised Objectives
(summary)**

                                 Original      Formally        Overall                        Comment
                                 Objectives    Revised
                                              Objectives
 Rating                         Moderately    Satisfactory   Satisfactory Project was moderately satisfactorily prior to
                                Satisfactory                              formal revision of objectives. Objectives were
                                                                          revised in response to major change in the
                                                                          situation in WBG (i.e., crisis). However, project
                                                                          performed significantly better after revision.
 Score                              4.2           5.2            5**      The original and formally revised scores are based
                                                                          on estimates derived in Annex 1-C. These take
                                                                          account of the relative importance
                                                                          of objectives.
 Weight                            20%           80%           100%       Weighting     based   on   disbursement     up  to
                                                                          December 02, date of Amendment of Credit
                                                                          Agreement. (See Annex 1-C and 1-E)
 Weighted Value                     0.8           4.2            5.0
 Final Weighting                                             Satisfactory
 (rounded)
 Notes: (1) * As of December,
 2002. (2) ** Rounded. (3)
 Scores: Highly Satisfactory=6;
 Satisfactory=5; Moderately
 Satisfactory=4; Moderately
 Unsatisfactory=3;
 Unsatisfactory=2; Highly
 Unsatisfactory=1.




                                                         - 27 -

Table 1(c): Quantitative Assessment of Achievement of Original and Formally Revised Objectives (details)

                             Original Objectives       Formally Revised
                                                          Objectives*       Original   Revised    Original   Revised       Overall
                                                                             Disb        Disb     Weighted Weighted       Weighted
                            Weighting      Rating   Weighting*       Rating Share       Share      score      score          score
                                            Score                    Score

  1-Rev.           Improve      60%           5          35%           5     20%         80%        3.0        1.8            2.0
  infrastructural services
  (roads, water, drainage
  and sewerage) to and
  within    villages    and
  municipalities in WBG,
  and preserve existing
  infrastructural assets;
  2-Rev.        Strengthen      40%           3         15%            3    20%          80%       1.2         0.5            0.6
  municipal     accounting
  systems    and    central
  Govt. capacity;
  3-New.             Repair      0            0         50%            6    20%          80%       0.0         3.0            2.4
  damage        to      and
  restoration   of   Public
  Buildings     and    high
  priority infrastructure.


  Overall                      100%          4.2       100%           5.2    0.2          0.8      4.2         5.2            5.0
  * As of June 2, 2002.
  Score: Highly Satisfactory=6; Satisfactory=5; Moderately Satisfactory=4;
  Moderately Unsatisfactory=3; Unsatisfactory; Highly Unsatisfactory.



Components

The achievement of outputs were reviewed in a manner similar to that outlined above for objectives, that is, the
weighting of components and sub-components. This was done initially based on component costs prior to and after
the formal revision of objectives (i.e., prior to and after December 02). However, the "post- revision" weighting
was based on relative costs as of the November 04 "pre-closing" date12. The latter reflects formal amendments to
the allocation of funding in the Credit Agreement ("Schedule 1") at this time. This is in contrast to objectives
above, where the "post-revision" weighting reflected the situation at December 02. This assessment is also
summarized in Annex I-C.

Table 2(a): Achievement of Outputs (summary)

Component                                              Original                Formally Revised                Overall
I.    Infrastructure Improvement                      satisfactory               satisfactory                satisfactory
I-A   Regional Roads                                  satisfactory                satisfactory                satisfactory
I-B   Water Distribution Networks                  mod. satisfactory            mod. satisfactory          mod. satisfactory
I-C   Damage Repair                                         -                  highly satisfactory         highly satisfactory
II.   Capacity Building                            mod. satisfactory           mod. satisfactory           mod. satisfactory
II-A MPWH Cap Building                                satisfactory             mod. satisfactory           mod. satisfactory
II-B MLG Cap Building                             mod. unsatisfactory            unsatisfactory              unsatisfactory
III.   Incremental Operating Expenses                 satisfactory               satisfactory                satisfactory
Overall                                           mod. satisfactory               satisfactory               satisfactory




                                                                    - 28 -

Table 2(b):                Quantitative Assessment of Achievement of Original and Formally Revised Outputs by
Component*

                                                  Original                Formally                    Overall                                       Comment
                                              Components                    Revised
                                                                        Components
Rating                                               Mod.                Satisfactory               Satisfactory          Project was moderately satisfactorily prior to formal
                                                Satisfactory                                                              revision of objectives. Objectives were revised in response
                                                                                                                          to major change in situation in WBG (crisis). However,
                                                                                                                          project performed significantly better after revision.
Score                                                 3.9                       5.4                      5**              The original and formally revised scores are
                                                                                                                          based on estimates derived in Annex 1-C.
                                                                                                                          These take account of the relative costs of
                                                                                                                          components.
Weight                                               20%                       80%                     100%             Weighting based on disbursement up to December
                                                                                                                        02, date of Amendment of Credit Agreement. (See
                                                                                                                        Annex 1-C and 1-E)
Weighted Value                                        0.8                       4.3                      5.1

Final Weighting (rounded)                                                                           Satisfactory

Notes: (1) * As of November
05. (2) ** Rounded. (3)
Scores: Highly
Satisfactory=6;
Satisfactory=5; Moderately
Satisfactory=4; Moderately
Unsatisfactory=3;
Unsatisfactory=2; Highly
Unsatisfactory=1.


Table 2(c): Quantitative Assessment of Achievement of Original and Formally Revised Components (details)


                                                                                                                                IDA Share
                                                                     Original                     Formally Revised
                                                                                                                                   Original          Revised         Original           Revised            Overall
                                                                 Components                         Components(1)                      Disb            Disb         Weighted           Weighted            Weighted
                                                            Weighting           Rating         Weighting*           Rating           Share           Share              score             score              score
                                                                                 Score                               Score

 I.       Infrastructure Improvement
 I-A      Regional Roads                                         37%                 5                27%                 5            20%             80%                1.9               1.4               1.5
 I-B     Water Distribution Networks                              9%                 4                7%                  4            20%             80%                0.4               0.3               0.3
 I-C     Damage Repair                                                                                57%                 6            20%             80%                                  3.4               2.7

                                            subtotal            47%                 4.8              91%                5.6           20%              80%                2.2               5.0               4.5
 II.     Capacity Building
 II-A MPWH Cap Building                                          21%                 3                0%                               20%             80%                0.6                                 0.1
 II-B MLG Cap Building                                           28%                 3                7%                  3            20%             80%                0.8               0.2               0.3
                                            subtotal            49%                 3.0               7%                  3           20%              80%                1.5               0.2               0.5

 III.     Incremental Operating Expenses                          4%                 5                2%                  6            20%             80%                0.2               0.1               0.1

 Total                                                         100%                 3.9             100%                5.4           20%              80%                3.9               5.4               5.1

 Notes: (1) Formally revised components are as of Nov. 04. (2) Disbursement weightings are based on disbursement shares before and after Dec 02, the date of the formal revision of Objectives. (3) Score: Highly
 Satisfactory=6; Satisfactory=5; Moderately Satisfactory=4; Moderately Unsatisfactory=3; Unsatisfactory=2; Highly Unsatisfactory=1.




                                                                                                - 29 -

Annex 1-E: Disbursement to End March 2005


8.00


7.00


6.00


5.00


4.00


3.00


2.00


1.00


0.00
      Dec00   Mar01   June01  Sep01  Dec01  Mar02  June02   Sep02       Dec02    Mar03   June03      Sep03   Dec03   Mar04   June04   Sep04


                                                             Original Cum    Actual Cum  Actual Qtr.




            De    Ma      Ju         De    Ma    Ju            De        Ma      Ju             De       Ma     Ju           De     Ma
            c      r      ne   Sep    c     r    ne    Sep      c         r      ne     Sep        c      r     ne   Sep      c      r
            00     01     01    01    01   02    02     02      02       03      03     03       03      04     04    04     04      05


  Origin
  al        1.1    1.2    1.3  1.9   2.5   3.1   3.8    4.5    5.2       5.9     6.5    7.0     7.5      7.5   7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5
  Cum       0      0      0     0     0     0    0       0      0         0        0     0        0       0     0     0       0      0
  Actual    0.0    0.6    0.6  0.9   0.9   1.1   1.1    1.1    1.5       1.9     2.9    3.4     3.9      4.6   5.0    5.4    6.1    7.0
  Cum       0      5      5     7     7     8    8       8      7         8        0     2        2       9     0     8       0      0
  Actual           0.6    0.0  0.3   0.0   0.2   0.0    0.0    0.3       0.4     0.9    0.5     0.5      0.7   0.3    0.4    0.6
  Qtr.             5      0     2     0     1    0       0      9         1        2     2        0       7     1     8       2     0.9

                   -       -     -    -     -     -      -       -        -         -    -         -      -     -      -      -
  Disb             46     50    49    61   62    69     74      70       66      55     51       48      37     33    27     19      -
  Lag              %      %     %     %    %     %       %      %         %       %     %         %       %     %     %      %      7%




         Dec   Mar    June   Sep   Dec  Mar June Sep Dec        Mar      June Sep       Dec      Mar      June     Sep    Dec      Mar
         00     01     01    01    01    02   02   02    02      03        03     03    03          04     04      04      04       05


Origin   1.1   1.2    1.3    1.9   2.5  3.1   3.8  4.5    5.2     5.9     6.5     7.0   7.5     7.5       7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5
al        0    0       0      0     0     0    0    0      0       0       0        0    0        0        0       0       0       0
Cum
Actual   0.0   0.6    0.6    0.9   0.9  1.1   1.1  1.1    1.5     1.9     2.9     3.4   3.9     4.6       5.0     5.4     6.1      7.0
Cum       0    5       5      7     7     8    8    8      7       8       0        2    2        9        0       8       0       0
Actual         0.6    0.0    0.3   0.0  0.2   0.0  0.0    0.3     0.4     0.9     0.5   0.5     0.7       0.3     0.4     0.6      0.9
Qtr.           5       0      2     0     1    0    0      9       1       2        2    0        7        1       8       2
Disb          -46     -50    -49   -61  -62   -69  -74    -70    -66      -55    -51    -48     -37       -33     -27     -19      -7
Lag            %       %      %    %     %    %     %     %       %       %         %   %        %        %       %       %        %




                                                         - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table A-2.1: Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
  Project Component                Original  Original    Original  Revised    IDA:     Actual as   Actual as
                                  Appraisal  Appraisal  Appraisal  Estimate Actual/Lat Percent of Percent of
                                   Estimate  Estimate    Estimate  (Bank:      est     Appraisal   Bank:
                                   (Total)   (Bank)      (Bank)    Realloc   Estimate  Estimate    Realloc
                                                                   Dec 04)   (Bank)*    (Bank)     Dec 04)

                                   (US$ m)   (US$ m)     (US$ m)   (US$ m)   (US$ m)     (%)        (%)

  Part I: Infrastructure
  Rehabilitation and
  Improvement
  I-A. Regional Road Network        15.10     2.38        2.80      2.03      1.14       41%        56%
  I-A(i). Emergency Employment                                                0.44
  Generation
  I-B. Village and Municipal        2.60      0.60        0.70      0.50      0.50       71%       100%
  Water Supply and Sewage
  Networks
  I-C. Emergency Damage Repair                                      4.27      4.52                 106%
  (Infrastructure, buildings and
  equipment)
  Sub-total                         17.70     2.98        3.50      6.80      6.60      189%        97%
  Part II: Capacity Building
  Support
  II-A. To MPWH to initiate         1.50      1.36        1.60      0.03      0.07       4%        237%
  Systematic Road Maintenance
  (including environment al
  Monitoring)
  II-B. To MLG and SMs for          2.40      1.79        2.10      0.53      0.26       12%        49%
  Continued SM Investment and
  Development Programming;
  and Improving Accounting
  Systems, Revenue
  Mobilization, Management
  and Service Delivery.
  Sub-total                         3.90      3.15        3.70      0.56      0.33       9%         59%
  Part III. Incremental
  Operating Expense Support

  II-A To MPWH                      0.10      0.09        0.10      0.10      0.03       33%        33%
  II-B. To MLG                      0.30      0.17        0.20      0.04      0.03       17%        85%
  Sub-Total                         0.40      0.26        0.30      0.14      0.07       22%        48%


  Total Baseline Cost               22.00     6.38        7.50      7.50      7.00       93%        93%


  Contingencies                     4.00      1.12

  Total Project Costs               26.00     7.50        7.50      7.50      7.00       93%        93%




* To end March, 2005.




                                                       - 31 -

Table A-2.2(a): Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements, Appraisal Estimate (Bank)
                (US$ million equivalent))
                                                                     Procurement Category
Cat.      Description                         ICB       NCB          Other            NBF    Total
1-A       CIVIL WORKS-PT. A1                                1.90           0.10                  2.00
1-B       CIVIL WORKS-PT. A2                                0.50                                 0.50
1-C       CIVIL WORKS-PT. Z
                                                            2.40           0.10                  2.50
2-A       GOODS-PTS. B1,C1                                  0.40           0.20                  0.60
2-B       GOODS-PTS. B2,C2                                  0.40           0.20                  0.60
2-C       GOODS-PT. Z
2-D       GOODS-PT. A2

                                                            0.80           0.40                  1.20
3-A       CS&TRG-PTS A1,B1,C1                                              1.80                  1.80
3-B       CS&TRG-PTS. B2,C2                                                1.50                  1.50
3-C       CS&TRG-PT. Z
4         CS - PT. A2                                                      0.20                  0.20

                                                                           3.50                  3.50
5-A       INC OPER COSTS-PT C1                                             0.10                  0.10
5-B       INC OPER COSTS-PT C2                                             0.20                  0.20
5-C       INC OPER COSTS-PT. Z

                                                                           0.30                  0.30


          Total                                             3.20           4.30                  7.50




                                                    - 32 -

Table A-2.2(b): Revised Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements, Dec 02, (Bank)
                (US$ million equivalent))


                                                                 Procurement Category
Cat.       Description                    ICB           NCB       Other            NBF    Total
1-A        CIVIL WORKS-PT. A1                           1.90            0.1                    2.00
1-B        CIVIL WORKS-PT. A2                           0.43                                   0.43
1-C        CIVIL WORKS-PT. Z                            3.66                                   3.66
                                                        5.99            0.10                   6.09
2-A        GOODS-PTS. B1,C1                             0.02            0.01                   0.03
2-B        GOODS-PTS. B2,C2                             0.23            0.11                   0.34
2-C        GOODS-PT. Z                                  0.40            0.20                   0.60
2-D        GOODS-PT. A2                                 0.04            0.02                   0.07

                                                        0.69            0.34                   1.03
3-A        CS&TRG-PTS A1,B1,C1                                          0.03                   0.03
3-B        CS&TRG-PTS. B2,C2                                            0.19                   0.19
3-C        CS&TRG-PT. Z                                                 0.01                   0.01
4          CS - PT. A2                                                  0.01                   0.01

                                                                        0.24                   0.24
5-A        INC OPER COSTS-PT C1                                         0.05                   0.05
5-B        INC OPER COSTS-PT C2                                         0.04                   0.04
5-C        INC OPER COSTS-PT. Z                                         0.05                   0.05

                                                                        0.14                   0.14


           Total                                        6.68            0.82                   7.50




                                                      - 33 -

Table A-2.2(c): Latest Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements, End March 05, (Bank)
                (US$ million equivalent))
                                                                  Procurement Category
Cat.       Description                    ICB       NCB           Other             NBF    Total
1-A        CIVIL WORKS-PT. A1                           1.58                                    1.58
1-B        CIVIL WORKS-PT. A2                           0.43                                    0.43
1-C        CIVIL WORKS-PT. Z                            3.96           0.06                     4.02
                                                        5.97           0.06                     6.03
2-A        GOODS-PTS. B1,C1                                            0.06                     0.06
2-B        GOODS-PTS. B2,C2                                            0.08                     0.08
2-C        GOODS-PT. Z                                                 0.37                     0.37
2-D        GOODS-PT. A2                                                0.04                     0.04
                                                                       0.54                     0.54
3-A        CS&TRG-PTS A1,B1,C1                                         0.01                     0.01
3-B        CS&TRG-PTS. B2,C2                                           0.10                     0.10
3-C        CS&TRG-PT. Z
4          CS - PT. A2                                                 0.00                     0.00
                                                                       0.11                     0.11
5-A        INC OPER COSTS-PT C1
5-B        INC OPER COSTS-PT C2                                        0.03                     0.03
5-C        INC OPER COSTS-PT. Z                                        0.03                     0.03
                                                                       0.07                     0.07

           Subtotal                                     5.97           0.78                     6.75

           SAs                                                         0.25                     0.25


           Total                                        5.97           1.03                     7.00




                                                      - 34 -

Table A-2.3: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate


Project Component         Original  Original  Original  Original Actual/Latest Actual/ Actual/  Actual   Actual/  Actual/ Actual/O Actual/O
                          Appraisal Appraisal Appraisal Appraisal Estimate     Latest  Latest   /Latest  Original Original riginal  riginal
                          Estimate  Estimate  Estimate  Estimate  (Bank)*     Estimate Estimate Estimate Estimate Estimate Estimate Estimate
                          (Bank)     (Govt)   (Cofin)   (Total)                (Govt)  (Cofin)  (Total)  (Bank)*  (Govt)   (Cofin)  (Total)
                          (US$      (US$      (US$      (US$      (US$         (US$    (US$     (US$      (%)       (%)     (%)      (%)
                           m)        m)        m)        m)        m)           m)      m)       m)
Part I: Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and
Improvement
I-A. Regional Road        2.80       3.10      12.20    18.10      1.14                          1.14     41%                        6%
Network
I-A(i). Emergency                                                  0.44                          0.44
Employment Generation
I-B. Village and                                                  0.5                            0.50
Municipal Water                                                   0
Supply and Sewage
Networks
I-C. Emergency Damage      0.70      0.50      1.90      3.10      4.52                          4.52     646%                      146%
Repair (Infrastructure,
buildings and equipment)
Sub-total                 3.50      3.60      14.10     21.20     6.60                           6.60    189%                       31%
Part II: Capacity
Building Support
II-A. To MPWH to          1.60       0.30                1.90      0.07                          0.07      4%                        4%
initiate Systematic
Road Maintenance
(including environment
al Monitoring)
II-B. To MLG and SMs      2.10       0.40                2.50      0.26                          0.26     12%                        10%
for Continued SM
Investment and
Development
Programming; and
Improving Accounting
Systems, Revenue
Mobilization,
Management and
Service Delivery.
Sub-total                 3.70      0.70                4.40      0.33                           0.33     9%                         7%
Part III. Incremental
Operating Expense
Support
II-A To MPWH              0.10                           1.90      0.03                          0.03     33%                        2%
II-B. To MLG               0.20      0.10                2.50      0.03                          0.03     17%                        1%
Sub-Total                 0.30      0.10                4.40      0.07                           0.07     22%                        2%
Total                     7.50      4.40      14.10     26.00     7.00                           7.00    93%                        27%

* To end March, 2005.




                                                             - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the project at appraisal was 47 percent. This estimate was based
on the total project cost at the time (US$ 26m), and on an assessment of the quantifiable components. The latter
were the infrastructure components (roads and the water), and accounted for about 76 percent of total project costs
including contingencies. As indicated above, the project was formally restructured in December 02--significantly
changing its composition. Also, because of the inability to secure the planned cofinancing the total project cost
was limited to the Bank share, i.e., to US$7.5m. The before and after situations are thus not strictly comparable.

The analysis undertaken here focuses on the restructured project. Once again, the quantifiable components are
limited to the infrastructure component (including damage repair and employment generation) which constitutes
about 94 percent of the revised total project. It is limited even more narrowly to the roads components because of
the difficulty in obtaining reliable data for the others. Roads comprise about 67 percent of the infrastructure
component, and 44 percent of total project costs, and it should be noted that road repair accounted for about 64
percent of both the damage repair and the employment generation programs. The other infrastructure components
include water supply, repairs to schools and other public buildings, office equipment, and miscellaneous. These
respectively constitute about 8, 16, 7 and 2 percent of the total infrastructure cost.

The Non-Quantified and Non-Quantifiable Components

While for reasons of data availability and reliability the focus of the analysis here is on roads, the other
infrastructure components probably yielded significant benefits. For example:

    l    The water component was estimated at appraisal to yield rates of return averaging 29 percent and, despite
         the data problems, there is no reason to believe that the yield on the completed sub-project would be
         significantly less than this.
    l    The repair to schools and public building under the damage repair program was vital to putting these
         assets back to work, and in helping to deliver vital education, health, judicial, infrastructural and
         administrative services. In the context of the crisis, the social value of these services is likely to have been
         very high.
    l    The office equipment replaced under the damage repair program was critical to the delivery of services
         noted above, and thus its social value is also likely to have been high.
    l    The remaining (miscellaneous) component included items such as retaining walls and culverts that are
         known to have a significantly positive value in preserving existing infrastructural assets.

With respect to the capacity building component (accounting system reform constituting about 5 percent of total
project cost), it is probable that it yielded significantly positive net economic benefits in the SMs in which the
program was implemented. This is so given the outcomes reported--more accurate and timely data enabling better
financial planning and management and increased revenue yields for example.

As will be shown below, the roads components yielded rates of return that ranged from 15-172 percent, averaging
55 percent overall. It is thus reasonable to conclude that the project as a whole probably yielded significant
positive net benefits to WBG.

The Quantifiable infrastructure Components

An ex-post economic evaluation was done for the road works component of the project consisting of all
rehabilitation and construction road works financed under the Regional Roads, Employment Generation and
Damage Repairs programs. Eleven road sections were subject to the ex-post economic evaluation with a total
length of 44.2 km representing a total investment of US$ 3.3 million. All four road sections to be rehabilitated
under the Regional Roads program were evaluated as well as the road section constructed under the Employment
Generation Program and six road sections rehabilitated or constructed under the Damage Repairs Program. Of the
eleven sections, only two sections (Surif - Beit Ummar Road and Azzoun- Sanireyya Road) were also evaluated
during project appraisal; therefore, an ex-ante and ex-post comparison could only be made for these two sections.



                                                         - 36 -

Table 1 presents the road sections subject to an ex-post economic evaluation.

                                      Table 1 Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Road Sections
                                        Road                                        Road             Length    Width
            Program                     Section                                     Work              (km)      (m)
            Regional Roads              Surif - Beit Ummar Road                     Rehabilitation     4.1       5.5
            Regional Roads              Azzoun- Sanireyya Road                      Rehabilitation     9.1       5.5
            Regional Roads              Eastern Road In Gaza (Road No. 4)           Rehabilitation     2.6       7.2
            Regional Roads              Cemetery Road in Gaza                       Rehabilitation     0.8       9.0
            Employment Generation       Deir Abu-Da'eef - Um AlTut road             Construction       3.9       5.0
            Damage Repairs              Bidya-sanireya Road                         Rehabilitation     3.2       6.0
            Damage Repairs              Deir Ibzei' - Ein Areek Road                Rehabilitation     4.8       5.0
            Damage Repairs              Yatta - Al Samou'a Road                     Rehabilitation     6.1       5.0
            Damage Repairs              Attarah - Ajjoul Road                       Construction       4.8       5.0
            Damage Repairs              Juhr Al-Deek Road                           Construction       4.2       5.5
            Damage Repairs              Beir Nabala Road                            Rehabilitation     0.7       5.0
            Total                                                                                      44.2




The ex-post economic evaluation was done by first replicating the Project Appraisal Document ex-ante economic
evaluation on an Excel workbook model, considering the project costs, the normal traffic, the traffic growth rate,
the expected roughness reduction (the average roughness after rehabilitation was considered to be 3.0 IRI) and the
corresponding road user costs savings (vehicle operating costs plus passenger's time savings) for five vehicle types.
The second step was to update the model with final project costs and current traffic data. Road user costs were
evaluated using the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4) relationships. Table 2 presents
typical road user costs for West Bank and Gaza.

                              Table 2 Typical Unit Economic Road User Costs (US$/vehicle-km)
                       Roughness                                   Light         Medium           Heavy
                          (IRI)            Car         Bus         Truck          Truck           Truck
                            2             0.17         0.74         0.55           0.96            1.18
                            3             0.17         0.75         0.55           0.97            1.19
                            4             0.18         0.81         0.59           1.02            1.24
                            8             0.20         1.06         0.73           1.24            1.48
                           12             0.23         1.29         0.88           1.46            1.79


Table 3 presents for the eleven sections, the road works contract costs and the final costs, which indicate that the
average unit road work costs are about US$ 79,500 per km and on average there has not been much difference
between the contract costs and the final costs, with an average Final Cost to Contract Cost ratio equal to 1.05.

                                           Table 3 Contract and Final Costs Comparison
                             Road                                          Contract Cost            Final Cost       Final /
    Program                  Section                                   (US$)     (US$/km)       (US$)     (US$/km)  Contract
    Regional Roads           Surif - Beit Ummar Road                   405,104     98,806      436,291     106,412   1.08
    Regional Roads           Azzoun- Sanireyya Road                    745,630     81,937      748,294     82,230    1.00
    Regional Roads           Eastern Road In Gaza (Road No. 4)         246,715     94,890      320,715     123,352   1.30
    Regional Roads           Cemetery Road in Gaza                     93,005     122,375       92,847     122,167   1.00
    Employment Generation    Deir Abu-Da'eef ­ Um AlTut road           193,650     50,299      163,075     42,357    0.84
    Damage Repairs           Bidya-sanireya Road                       248,668     77,709      253,328     79,165    1.02
    Damage Repairs           Deir Ibzei' - Ein Areek Road              295,600     61,583      331,816     69,128    1.12
    Damage Repairs           Yatta - Al Samou'a Road                   219,168     35,929      215,364     35,306    0.98
    Damage Repairs           Attarah - Ajjoul Road                     329,530     68,652      354,810     73,919    1.08
    Damage Repairs           Juhr Al-Deek Road                         359,072     85,493      392,357     93,418    1.09
    Damage Repairs           Beir Nabala Road                          32,980      47,114       32,917     47,025    1.00
    Average                                                                        74,981                  79,498    1.05




The road works serve many villages and heavily populated areas. Table 4 presents the estimated inhabitants that
are benefited from each road work, which indicates that the cost effectiveness of the program was very good. The




                                                                 - 37 -

overall cost effectiveness ratio is US$ 5.8 of road works costs per beneficiary and the average number of
beneficiaries per km is about 24,000 per km.

                                             Table 4 Cost Effectiveness Analysis
                                                                                                          Cost/
                             Road                                    Beneficiaries  Beneficiaries/km    Beneficiary
      Program                Section                                    (persons)    (persons/km)      (US$/person)
      Regional Roads         Surif - Beit Ummar Road                     40,000         9,756             10.9
      Regional Roads         Azzoun- Sanireyya Road                      70,000         7,692             10.7
      Regional Roads         Eastern Road In Gaza (Road No. 4)          200,000        76,923              1.6
      Regional Roads         Cemetery Road in Gaza                       50,000        65,789              1.9
      Employment Generation  Deir Abu-Da'eef - Um AlTut road             50,000        12,987              3.3
      Damage Repairs         Bidya-sanireya Road                         50,000        15,625              5.0
      Damage Repairs         Deir Ibzei' - Ein Areek Road                20,000         4,167             16.6
      Damage Repairs         Yatta - Al Samou'a Road                     50,000         8,197              4.3
      Damage Repairs         Attarah - Ajjoul Road                      120,000        25,000              3.0
      Damage Repairs         Juhr Al-Deek Road                           75,000        17,857              5.2
      Damage Repairs         Beir Nabala Road                            15,000        21,429              1.5
      Average                                                                          24,129              5.8




Table 5 presents the current Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) of each road section. The average daily traffic
varies from 890 to 5,500 AADT with and average traffic of 2,325 AADT. The average traffic composition is 84%
cars and 16% commercial vehicles comprising buses and trucks. The estimated annual traffic growth rate between
2001 and 2005 is estimated to be about 2% per year for all vehicles and between 2006 and 2010 it is estimated to
be about 5% per year.

                                        Table 5 Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT)
                           Road                                                       Light     Medium   Heavy
   Program                 Section                                     Car       Bus  Truck       Truck  Truck     Total
   Regional Roads          Surif - Beit Ummar Road                    1,750      56    196         41      5       2,048
   Regional Roads          Azzoun- Sanireyya Road                     1,752      48    337         128     8       2,273
   Regional Roads          Eastern Road In Gaza (Road No. 4)          2,930       6    220         220    120      2,495
   Regional Roads          Cemetery Road in Gaza                      1,220       2    40          8      50       1,320
   Employment Generation   Deir Abu-Da'eef - Um AlTut road             574       68    156         86      9       893
   Damage Repairs          Bidya-sanireya Road                        1,575      32    305         144     3       2,059
   Damage Repairs          Deir Ibzei' - Ein Areek Road               3,814      437   298         177    35       4,761
   Damage Repairs          Yatta - Al Samou'a Road                     931        3    209         81      5       1,229
   Damage Repairs          Attarah - Ajjoul Road                       897        2    40          35      0       974
   Damage Repairs          Juhr Al-Deek Road                          1,497       0    100         270    150      2,017
   Damage Repairs          Beir Nabala Road                           4,565      350   310         185    95       5,505
   Average                                                                                                         2,325




The ex-post economic evaluation shows a robust economic justification of the project road investments. All road
sections have an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) higher than 12%. The economic rates of return vary from 15% to
172% and the overall project ERR is 55%. The overall project Net Present Value (NPV), at 12% discount rate, is
US$ 5.78 million and the overall NPV per Investment Cost ratio is 1.73. Table 6 presents the ex-post economic
evaluation results.




                                                              - 38 -

                                           Table 6 Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Results
                                                                                            Net Present
                                                                       Net Present      Value/Investment         Economic
                             Road                                         Value                 Cost           Rate of Return
    Program                  Section                                 (US$ Million)             (ratio)              (%)
    Regional Roads           Surif - Beit Ummar Road                      0.35                  0.80               33%
    Regional Roads           Azzoun- Sanireyya Road                       1.26                  1.68               54%
    Regional Roads           Eastern Road In Gaza (Road No. 4)            0.47                  1.45               49%
    Regional Roads           Cemetery Road in Gaza                        0.04                  0.38               23%
    Employment Generation    Deir Abu-Da'eef - Um AlTut road              0.08                  0.48               25%
    Damage Repairs           Bidya-sanireya Road                          0.38                  1.51               50%
    Damage Repairs           Deir Ibzei' - Ein Areek Road                 2.40                  7.23               172%
    Damage Repairs           Yatta - Al Samou'a Road                      0.13                  0.59               28%
    Damage Repairs           Attarah - Ajjoul Road                        0.03                  0.10               15%
    Damage Repairs           Juhr Al-Deek Road                            0.49                  1.26               44%
    Damage Repairs           Beir Nabala Road                             0.16                  4.88               122%
    Overall                                                               5.78                  1.73               55%




A sensitivity analysis was done considering that the average road roughness of the roads after the rehabilitation is
3.5 IRI instead of 3.0 IRI, considering a possible neglect of future road maintenance. Table 7 present the results of
the sensitivity analysis, which indicates that the economic benefits are lower but the overall project is still justified
with an ERR of 41%.

               Table 7 Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Results Sensitivity Analysis (Roughness after Works = 3.5 IRI)
                                                                                         Net Present      Economic Rate of
                              Road                                  Net Present Value    Value/Cost             Return
    Program                   Section                                 (US$ Million)         (ratio)              (%)
    Regional Roads            Surif - Beit Ummar Road                      0.19               0.43               24%
    Regional Roads            Azzoun- Sanireyya Road                       0.83               1.11               41%
    Regional Roads            Eastern Road In Gaza (Road No. 4)            0.30               0.93               37%
    Regional Roads            Cemetery Road in Gaza                        0.02               0.22               18%
    Employment Generation     Deir Abu-Da'eef - Um AlTut road              -0.02             -0.15               7%
    Damage Repairs            Bidya-sanireya Road                          0.25               0.98               38%
    Damage Repairs            Deir Ibzei' - Ein Areek Road                 1.79               5.39              133%
    Damage Repairs            Yatta ­ Al Samou'a Road                      -0.02             -0.09               9%
    Damage Repairs            Attarah - Ajjoul Road                        -0.04             -0.11               9%
    Damage Repairs            Juhr Al-Deek Road                            0.31               0.78               33%
    Damage Repairs            Beir Nabala Road                             0.07               2.12               63%
    Overall                                                                3.67               1.10               41%




Table 8 presents the ex-ante and ex-post ERR of the Surif - Beit Ummar Road and the Azzoun- Sanireyya Road,
which are the only two road sections that were also evaluated at appraisal. The ex-post ERRs are higher than the
ex-ante estimates due mainly to the lower ex-post unit road work costs.

                                Table 8 Ex-Ante and Ex-Post Economic Evaluation Comparison
                                                            Project Appraisal Document                Ex-Post
                Road                             Length      Cost         Cost     Ex-Ante ERR         ERR
                Section                           (km)       (US$)     (US$/km)         (%)             (%)
                Surif - Beit Ummar Road            5.4     600,000      111,111        28%             33%
                Azzoun- Sanireyya Road            10.0     1,100,000    110,000        35%             54%




                                                                - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/28/1999                1    TRANSPORT SPEC (1)
              08/08/1999                1    TRANSPORT SPEC (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/05/2000                1    TRANSPORT SPEC (1)
              03/27/2000                1    FIN. MGT SPEC. (1)

 Supervision

              05/29/2001                3    PROJECT OFFICER (2); LEAD        U               U
                                             URBAN PLANNER/TTL (1)
              08/25/2001                2    PROJECT OFFICER/TTL;             U               U
                                             URBAN PLANNER (CONS-1)
              03/26/2002                2    PROJECT OFFICER/TTL (1);         S               U
                                             URBAN PLANNER (CONS-1)


              04/01/2003               11    PROJECT OFFICER/TTL (1);         S               S
                                             PROJECT OFFICERS
                                             (CONS-2); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPEC(1); URBAN PLANNER
                                             (CONS-1); IT SPEC. (1);
                                             URBAN ECN (1); FIN. MGT
                                             SPEC (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             SPEC.(1); TRANSPORT SPEC
                                             (1); PROGRAM ASSIST (1)
              08/25/2004                3    OPERATIONS OFFICER/TTL           S               S
                                             (1); MUN. SPEC. (CONS-1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSIST (1);
              10/15/2004               11    OPERATIONS OFFICER/TTL           S               S
                                             (1); PROJECTS OFFICERS
                                             (CONS-2); URBAN PLANNER
                                             (CONS-1); MUN SPEC
                                             (CONS-1); IT SPEC. (1);
                                             URBAN ECN (1); FIN. MGT
                                             SPEC (2); PROGRAM ASSIST
                                             (2)

 ICR
              2/22/2005                 7     OPERATIONS                      S               S
                                              OFFICER/TTL (1); MUN.
                                              SPEC. (CONS-1); URBAN
                                              PLANNER (CONS-1);
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                              -(IT); FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT
                                              (CONS-1); PROGRAM



                                              - 40 -

                                                                      ASSISTANT (1); CONS-1.



(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                      No. Staff weeks                             US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                    31.9                                      105.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                         26.9                                       86.7
  Supervision                                                  105.4                                      261.0
  ICR                                                           25.0                                       20.0
  Total                                                        174.2                                      473.0
Note: The costs shown here are underestimated. Additional supervision costs were incurred. However, these were charged to the Resident Mission's
budget under previous accounting rules.




                                                                      - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Damage Repair




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. A World Bank Group Strategy for the West Bank and Gaza and a Request for Replenishment of the Trust
   Fund for Gaza and the West Bank (R98-96 dated April 28, 1998).

2. Palestinian Development Plan 1999-2001, Ministry of Planning, Palestinian Authority.

3. West Bank and Gaza: Emergency Reallocation and Proposed Amendments to Trust Fund Credit Agreements,
   July 26, 2002.

4. Legal Amendment and Reallocation of Categories, December 10, 2002.

5. MIDP-2 Mid Term Review Aide Memoire, March 6, 2003.

6. MIDP-2 Project Closing Supervision Mission ­ Aide Memoire, October 15 ­ 30, 2004.

7. West Bank and Gaza Infrastructure Assessment, Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group, MENA,
   World Bank, December 2004.

8. MIDP-2 Final Progress Report, Ministry of Public Works and Housing, February 2005.




                                                  - 44 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Stakeholder Workshop Results

                                            Summary of Comments

Introduction:

The MIDP-2 stakeholder workshop was held on February 22, 2005 at the World Bank field office, Ar-Ram, West
Bank, to evaluate the Project's objectives and outcomes, and lessons learned and how to improve the design and
implementation of similar projects in the future. The workshop was attended by representatives from Ministries of
Finance, Public Works and Housing, Local Government, Palestinian Water Authority and a number of beneficiary
municipalities. Due to travel restrictions between West Bank and Gaza, a video conference connection between the
Bank offices was done and representatives from the participating agencies and municipalities in Gaza were able to
participate and contribution to the evaluation.

Dr. Atef Alawneh, Deputy Minister of Finance, as the chair of the workshop, welcomed the participants and
thanked the World Bank for its support to the PA institutions and the local authorities. He emphasized the
uniqueness of MIDP-2 due to its response to the shift in focus from rehabilitation of infrastructure towards
institutional development and economic development. He also thanked the Bank staff for their efforts in
understanding the developing needs especially after the beginning of the Intifadah and the heightened tensions and
to their quick and efficient responsiveness to the changing environment.

Mr. Ibrahim Dajani, MIDP-2 Task Team leader, also welcomed the participants and thanked the PA partners for
their cooperation throughout the project life. He also welcomed the honest dialogue and discussions to ensure
effective implementation of the project components and activities. He also thank them for the efforts to overcome
the challenges and obstacles which were facing implementation. He stressed the need to receive good feedback
from participants so it would become lessons to be considered when designing new operations.

Mr. Kingsley Robotham, Consultant ­ Urban Planner, gave a brief description of the project objectives and
expected outcome. He laid out the principals for the workshop and the expectation that one would leave with.

Messrs Maher Ghnaim, Assistant Deputy Minister and Fayeq Al-Deek, Director General for Projects at MPWH
expressed their appreciation for the Bank and the project supervision team for their support and partnership
throughout the past four years. They expressed their satisfaction of the outcomes especially with respect to putting
MPWH on the list of effective PA institutions. They listed the following points that were realized by MPWH:

§    Regarding the overall institutional capacity for MPWH, approximately US$6 million from MIDP-2 enabled
     the ministry to attract about US$60 million of funding from the donor community.
§    Direct in-house capacity for MPWH: MIDP-2 financed two training courses for MPWH technical staff in
     WB&G; one course was in environmental awareness and the other course was in report writing. In addition,
     MIDP-2 financed training abroad for 3 staff members.
§    About US$2.4 million was utilized in financing the rehabilitation of regional roads (4 regional roads
     sub-projects have been financed by the Bank), including an employment generation program. And about
     US$4.2 million was utilized in damage repair as follows; US$2.5 million in the rehabilitation of roads of
     which some gained the importance of regional roads (47 km, including Deir Ibzee' ­ Ein Areek, Johr Al-Deik,
     Ein Areek ­ Tal Al-sultan, and a number of roads within the Northern Gaza area which have been severely
     damaged by the Israeli incursions), US$1 million for goods to furnish damaged public buildings, and US$1.1
     million for the rehabilitation of 162 damaged buildings. The damage repair program also managed to create
     temporary employment opportunities.
§    The Bank's responsiveness has been rated highly satisfactory: The Bank showed a high level of flexibility in
     understanding the changing community and PA priorities, responding to and processing restructuring
     requests, reallocating available funding for incremental costs to finance goods for the ministries, simplifying
     the procurement process, and allowing the use of "force accounts" procedures to enable ministries to directly
     manage tasks.
§    MPWH seconded and strongly supported the TTL's remarks that MIDP-2 was the project that managed to put
     MPWH on the map of the main implementing PA counterparts.



                                                       - 45 -

§   The rate and flow of replenishments to the SA has been very steady, and facilitated quick and flawless
    disbursement throughout the life of the project ­ with the exception of the last replenishment(s) where the
    delay was attributed to the closing of the Arab Bank NY branch.
§   Employment generation figures presented were approximately 82,000 person days (out of a planned 182,000
    according to the original objectives appraised for the nearly US$17 million) for the total US$6.2 million
    implemented by MPWH. (Labor cost for roads projects was 15% and for road rehabilitation and about 35% for
    buildings, based on US$15/person/day in the West Bank and US$10/person/day in Gaza).
§   As far as in-house capacity gained directly through MIDP-2, MPWH has been exposed to 10 different types of
    procurement contracts, which was beneficiary in two ways: First, the experience of MPWH engineers and
    procurement team increased considerably during the course of implementation. Second, exposure to the
    Bank's procurement guidelines improved efficiency and effectiveness of performance when dealt with projects
    financed by other donors. Bank's procedures were found to be much simpler and easy to deal with than most
    donors procedures.
§   Also, comments from the Finance Dept. Indicated that through MIDP-2, the dept. adopted and utilized the use
    of modern computerized financial management systems, which additionally gave it more capacity to efficiently
    manage the finances of other donors. MIDP-2 also enriched the Fin. Dept.'s experience in managing the
    requirements and procedures of MOLG financial Department, other partners, as well as external auditors.
§   As for the RMMS component, although it has not been implemented, going through the procurement process
    twice has been very enriching to MPWH staff, especially in dealing with a type of assignment that is relatively
    new to Palestine and the region in magnitude and scope, as well as dealing with International consultants and
    experience gained through correspondence with the Bank's procurement team locally and at the HQs.
§   MPWH feels a great loss in the inability to implement the RMMS to the ministry as well as to the road sector,
    in general: Even though the Bank has exerted great flexibility in trying with MPWH to revise the initial
    "ambitious" plan and pilot project to allow for implementation within the Intifada context, implementation of
    this component was deemed impossible, especially with the increasing restrictions on mobility (essential
    requirement to implement a program of this scope and size) as well as the increasing demand for more
    subsistence priority needs for the Palestinians. MPWH also commented that the LGUs unfortunately lost an
    excellent opportunity to improve their capacity through their involvement in the RMMS (road maintenance
    plans for municipalities, training for LGU staff, etc.)

    Obstacles that faced implementation:
§    PA contribution (15%) pertaining to VAT exemptions (17%) was an issue at the early months of the project.
    This was eventually resolved by MOF.
§     The main obstacle to implementation was the impact of the restriction on movement of people and goods
    within each region, and between WB & Gaza. MPWH referred to the Bank's Infrastructure assessment figures:
    Travel time increased by 350%, travel cost increase by 114%,, Gaza being the most effected in terms of
    increase in costs for goods (200%). Moreover, MPWH linked the closures to the impact on the increase in the
    prices of raw and construction materials (monopoly, increasing transportation costs and wear and tear, etc...).
§   A major loss to the MPWH and the road sector was the fact that cofinancing did not materialize: According to
    initial commitments, MPWH was anticipating US$18 million of financing for the roads sector, but due to the
    lack of cofinancing managed ­ with Bank financing ­ to invest only US$5 million in the roads sector
    (collectively the R. Roads, employment generation and the damage repair in the roads sector).
§   MPWH Gaza counterparts expressed the need for more funding to finance damaged roads, especially provided
    the repeated incursions and thus, the on-going destruction of main roads.

Mr. Hani Kayed Director of the Projects Departments at MOLG and other representatives thanked the Bank for its
contribution to the improvement of the capacity of the local government units (LGUs). The program as appraised
was very responsive to the needs to develop planning and financial management capacities. Unfortunately, and due
to the Crisis, a reduction of scope of the program to address other priorities in damage repair was necessary. The
main learning points are summarized as follows:

§   The overall objective for MOLG is to be able to introduce a unified advanced computerized financial
    management system in all municipalities (and village councils at later stages), and develop a cadre of
    municipal staff who are able to operate and make use of the system. The original MIDP-2 program was set to



                                                        - 46 -

    do so but the crisis changed this program significantly.
§   Although the capacity building component for LGUs was dramatically reduced, LGUs benefited from the
    project because the resources were re-allocated towards infrastructure damage repair benefiting those LGUs.
§   The process of implementing the RMIS with municipalities was not only beneficial to the participating
    municipalities, but also to the private sector (competitiveness, experience with procurement, benefits to the
    consulting firms, etc...). One interesting comment was that MIDP ­ as an initiator of modernization of
    municipal financial management systems ­ was on the ground before the Bank's ESSP or EMSP, and thus,
    MIDP-1&2 laid the foundation for this overall shift in thinking towards modernization and computerization ­
    Currently, the Danish Capacity Building Project takes into account the initiatives started with the MIDPs.
§   MOLG Project Accounting Unit: Gained tremendous in-house capacity from internal and external (dealing
    with counterparts and LGUs) capacity accumulated throughout the lives of the two MIDPs. The PAU is now
    the HUB for implementation of many donor projects.
§   There was an apparent lack of communication between MOLG-Gaza and West Bank offices primarily due to
    travel restrictions which obstructed the communication between the ministries staff.

Mr. Ahmad Quraish of PWA thanked the Bank's full cooperation and assistance to PWA and the water sector.
Main points are summarized as follows:

§   Throughout the implementation of this project, PWA failed to inform the Bank that MIDP-2 contribution was
    part of a Bidya's water master-plan and that MIDP-2 financing was anticipated to finance 70% of the
    master-plan. Accordingly, from the start the Bank was under the impression that connectivity to households
    and that the water source were secured and guaranteed.
§   Securing a comprehensive financing scheme for a water supply problem at a community has always been a
    challenge at PWA. Not a single donor is ready to contribute towards the development of such schemes
    primarily due to the large investments needed. As a result, Bidya water master-plan was divided to be financed
    by a number of donors. Unfortunately, lined up financing and disbursement of funds are not always matching
    the implementation schedule of the master-plan.

Messrs Ramadan Shattat, Mayor, and Sameeh Salman, City Engineer, of Bidya Municipality also expressed their
appreciation of the Bank's contribution which they have been longing for many years. They reported that the
Bank's contribution has managed to improve the water supply to cover 90% of the 8,000 population.

§   The Bidya water project financed through MIDP-2 is operational by linking the new network to the old system,
    however, the new system would be more efficient with the completion of the needed water pipe (600 meters
    length) to connect the water reservoir with the main water line of MEKOROT. Bidya municipality estimates
    that the final connection would cost US$30,000. It is very important to finance House connectivity because it
    costs approximately US$200 per house connection to connect the new water network with the households.
    Most people and due to the deteriorating economic conditions are unable to pay for the connection cost.
§   Bidya municipality indicated that for all works related to the Bidya water network (the whole master plan),
    licenses and permits were already granted by the Israeli authorities and that MEKOROT had approved the
    connectivity, but that when works started, Bidya municipality was surprised with licensing problems, and
    MEKOROT did not grant them access to the water.
§   Bidya Municipality requested an urgent contribution to solving the connectivity (anticipated benefit) of the
    above project, by financing the final stage, which is connecting the water reservoir with the water source.

Other Municipalities:

§   Al-Nusairat, Gaza Governorate: was very appreciative of the courtesies and assistance of technical staff from
    Gaza City Municipality, and for their help in training Al-Nusairat staff on how to use the system. They
    indicated that throughout the implementation of the system they did not receive much needed and repeatedly
    requested supervision and guidance from MOLG counterparts in Gaza. This contributed to a failure in
    adhering to the Bank's guidelines. For example, after TOR for a private consultant's technical assistance were
    approved by MOLG, the municipality was surprised during implementation of MOLG's, then outdated,
    suggestion to make use of the accumulated experience of Gaza municipality staff.
§   It was noted by the Bank representative that the system installed at Al-Nusairat municipality is not an updated



                                                       - 47 -

    version and the proposed contract was to further develop the old version, prepare an operational manual, train
    the municipal staff and provide trouble shooting during start-up operations as well as during a one-year
    maintenance period. The rep also noted that the municipality did not acquire the license for the Oracle which
    could put the municipality in an unfortunate legal position.
§    Al-Douha ­ in the West Bank: indicated greater efficiency in obtaining and processing of information with
    the newly installed RMIS.
§   Beit Jala ­ also in the West Bank: Before the installation of the RMIS, the financial system was manual and
    inefficient. The revenue from waste management fees, for example, was estimated at US$150,000 for 2000.
    After the installation and operation of the computerized system, actual revenue from the same fees for 2004
    became US$240,000.
§    Al-Ram municipality ­ West Bank: Also mentioned their positive experience with the licensing database and
    system.

Lessons learned for the future:

Participants have summarized their experiences in the following points:

MPWH:

§   The regional roads sector yet remains to be one of the sectors mostly overlooked and underserved by the donor
    community. The extent of direct and indirect damage to regional roads is currently estimated to be US$123
    million. Currently, 50% of the regional network in WBG is in "very poor" condition.
§   MPWH urges the Bank and donors to consider shifting their priorities to focusing on the rehabilitation of
    regional roads rather than the current focus on internal roads. Accordingly, MPWH proposed for urgent future
    consideration the rehabilitation of (a) Salah Eddin Regional Road, which is the main road crossing Gaza strip
    from Erez to Beit Hanon, which is currently in a very deteriorated condition due to incursions, and (b) Gaza
    coastal road, which is the only road connecting North Gaza to the South. Approximately 2kms of this road are
    completely damaged and non-operational.
§   The use of "Direct Hire" method for civil works in Gaza has been very advantageous to the implementing
    team. For the rest of works which depended on the use of private contractors, MPWH mentioned the
    interesting example that private contractors gained a lot of capacity through exposure to the Bank's
    procurement requirements. Additionally, private contractors exerted high commitment and motivation to
    compete over winning contracts for civil works financed by the Bank, because of their knowledge and
    perception of the credibility of the transparency, credibility and timely disbursements for managing works
    financed by the Bank.
§   There is still substantial need for a road management master plan for WBG, provided appropriate
    implementation conditions.

MOLG:

§   It takes approximately 7 months to hire partners from the private sector to carry out the implementation of
    RMIS in municipalities. MOLG feels that its technical staff have gained adequate capacity at this stage to
    enable MOLG to directly replicate this component and expand it with additional municipalities, without
    having to outsource. MOLG requests the Bank to consider in the future MOLG's direct involvement and
    supervision of similar initiatives.
§   An MOLG counterpart ­ Samah Abboun ­ had a slightly contradicting vision: Bank and ministries need to
    give more focus on the SMs and the private sector for actual implementation and focusing instead on
    supervision, analysis and evaluation, as their roles.

PWA:

§   Requesting community contribution, as means to foster community ownership, is deemed unsuccessful,
    provided the high poverty rate and the high unemployment rates among household heads. In light of the
    existing conditions, the Bank and partners need to revise on ways to enhance community ownership.




                                                        - 48 -

Bank:

§  When it comes to decision making on the choice of financial management software, partners need to pay
   careful attention to the specific needs and local characteristics pertaining to the West Bank and to Gaza.
   Relevant to this comment, is the apparent lack of coordination for a given implementing partner, between the
   West Bank side and the Gaza side.
§  MOLG needs to exert more efforts in following up with municipalities on the implementation of the RMIS ­ to
   get them more involved in the decision making process, and to request their feedback and process it candidly
   and periodically. (This was much more directed towards MOLG Gaza counterparts).
§  There is an apparent lack of "institutional memory" ­ meaning that senior policy making staff of given
   departments within the implementing agencies seem to be oblivious to and somewhat disconnected from the
   processes which take place at the lower technical level, which is normally more in touch with the recipients.
§  Current overall focus for project implementation does not adequately address the permanent need for
   institutional capacity building. Therefore, no matter how overwhelming emergency needs are, designs of
   future operations need always to have an adequate consideration for capacity building.
§  Development is associated with cost ­ we need to always take into consideration, in our evaluations, to how
   much it would cost a given municipality to adopt modernized accounting systems and be able to operationalize
   it, especially with a considerable number of LGUs currently lacking some basic subsistence needs.




                                                      - 49 -

Additional Annex 9. Partner's Comments




                                      - 50 -

- 51 -

- 52 -

- 53 -

- 54 -

- 55 -

Additional Annex 10. Additional Information

Exhibit A-10.1: Attendance List, MIDP-2 - ICR Workshop, Tuesday - February 22, 2005

#   Name                                     Organization                Remarks

            West Bank

 1   Dr. Atef Alawneh                         Deputy Minister             Ministry of Finance
 2   Ms. Laila Sbeih                               Engineer               Ministry of Finance
 3   Mr. Ali Abid                                 MOF-IRD                 Ministry of Finance
 4   Mr. Mohd. Ramahi                      Deputy Director ­ PCU          Ministry of Local Govt.
 5   Ms. Samah Abboun                              Director               Ministry of Local Govt.
 6   Mr. Hani Kayed                        Director ­ Projects Dept.      Ministry of Local Govt.
 7   Mr. Munjed Bleibleh                    Director ­ MIS Dept.          Ministry of Local Govt.
 8   Mr. Maher Ghnaim                     Assistant Deputy Minister       Ministry of Public Works
 9   Mr. Fayeq Al-Deek                    Director General ­ Projects     Ministry of Public Works
10   Mr. Bassam Abu Gharbiyah             Director General ­ Finance      Ministry of Public Works
11   Mr. Ihsan Saboubeh                       Director ­ Roads.           Ministry of Public Works
12   Mr. Ali Odeh                         Director ­ Planning Dept.       Palestinian Water Authority
13   En. Amjad Quraish                    Project Manager/Civil En.       Palestinian Water Authority
14   Mr. Ramadan Shattat                            Mayor                 Bidia Municipality
15   Mr. Sameeh Salman                          City Engineer             Bidia Municipality
16   En. Nadim Al-Hudwa                         City Engineer             Beit Jala Municipality
17   Mr. Walid Al-Khateeb                        Accountant               Beit Jala Municipality
18   Mr. Jamil Al-Nabtiti                        Accountant               Addouha Municipality
19   Mr. Abdallah Ghuneim                           Mayor                 Al-Khader Municipality
20   Mr. Younes Al-Azzeh                        City Engineer             Al-Khader Municipality
21   En. Osama Musleh                              Engineer               Al-Ram Municipality


                Gaza

 1  Mr. Ramy Abdo                     Procurement & Financial Manager     Ministry of Finance
 2  Mr. Nasser Thaber                           Site Engineer             Ministry of Public Works
 3  Mr. Ahmad Al-Najjar                    G.D. Road Department           Ministry of Public Works
 4  Mr. Kamal Awad                    Director of International Program   Ministry of Planning
 5  Mr. Mohammad Ajjour              D.G. Programs & Sector Coordinator   Ministry of Planning
 6  Mr. Sofian Abu Samra                   Director of Project Dept.      Ministry of Local Govt.
 7  Mr. Monzer Shoblak                         Project Director           Palestinian Water Authority
 8  Ms. Fathi Hemeda                       Head of Financial Dept.        Al-Nusairat Municipality
 9  Mr. Ahmad Bin Said                              Mayor                 Deir Al-Balah Municipality




                                                     - 56 -

Additional Annex 11. Indications of Social Impact of MIDP-2

Regional Roads:

   l    WB - Rehabilitation of Sureef ­ Beit Ummar Road: This is the only road in Hebron Governorate that
        connects the two towns, and 3 villages in between, on the same road (Sureef and Beit Ummar), with a
        population of over 40,000, and the existing capacity was 3 m ­ wide. The road is also important as it links
        the Western regional road in Hebron and Road 60 in the West Bank (which connects over 30 villages in
        the south west of WB ­ I counted on the map).

   l    WB - Rehabilitation of Azzoun-Masha road (phase I), Azzoun Sinnirya): Part of a regional road
        connecting Tulkarem, Qalqilia, and Salfit, passes through Kufor Thuloth village: Serves approximately 15
        villages with population over 70,000. Under the current closure, this road is being used heavily as an
        alternative to people traveling from Northern WB to Ramallah, Jerusalem, and the south WB, especially
        after paving the damaged road between Sinnirya and Bidia in the form of additional works financed by the
        damage rehabilitation component.

   l    GAZA - Gaza Eastern Road, No 4: Linkage road between North Gaza, Gaza Governorate, and South
        Gaza (estimated beneficiaries are 200,000 inhabitants). Works included original plan to repair damages
        caused by incursions, and during implementation, further damages by incursions took place, and they
        were also repaired under MIDP-2.

   l    GAZA - Gaza Cemetery road: Became of regional importance after the closing of Al-Shuhada
        intersection; it connects Jabalia farms and governorate in the North to Road No. 4, by this, connecting
        Jabalia to the rest of Gaza.

   l    WB - Deir Abu D'eef ­ Um Al-Toot road: Was known to be a dirt road used usually by farmers. It became
        of high importance in the Jenin area after the Israeli military closed the Jenin-Nazareth road, and
        currently connects (the only road) the eastern road Northern villages of Jenin area. Serves directly 12
        villages with population over 50,000.

   l    WB - There was a dirt road used by farmers between Ajjoul and Atarah in the Ramallah area. Then
        MIDP-2 financed the construction/asphalting of this road, directly linking the two villages, and indirectly
        providing the linkage between over 9 villages to the West of Ajjoul, to Atarah as well as the main road
        going towards Ramallah. In the report, it states that the road became of high importance as an alternative
        road to closed roads in the area. The 5.4 km constructed road between Ajjoul and Atarah serves directly
        and indirectly (in total) approximately 20 villages with over 120,000 inhabitants. It has been indicated
        that traffic between the North and South WB sometimes uses this road.

   l    GAZA - Johr Al-Deek road ­ Gaza: The pavement of 4.5 km between Salah Al-Deen Road and the solid
        waste dumping area in Johr Al-Deek.

   l    WB - Rehabilitation of Ein Areek ­ Deir Ibzee' project: Damaged by incursions ­ rehabilitated road
        (4.8km) currently serves several villages to the West and North West of Ramallah with a population over
        200,000.

   l    WB - Rehabilitation of Yatta ­ Al-Samou' road: Total of 6.1 km rehabilitated connecting Yatta, Bani
        N'eim, and Al-Samou' villages, benefiting over 50,00 inhabitants, as well as connecting them with
        Hebron City.

   l    WB - Rehabilitation of Abu Baker St. In Tal Al-Sultan area: the only main road in Tal Al-Sultan area,
        connecting small localities to the regional road No. 78.

The impact of the implemented road sub-projects lies in the positive impact on the livelihood of villagers who have
been cut off access to the main cities during the long months of the Second Intifada; the enabling for the
continuation of economic activity (transport of agricultural produce, raw material, laborers, and essential goods)
between connected villages, and between them on one hand and main cities on the other. Additional
socio-economic impact is indicated by anticipated savings in transportation time, as well as a decrease in the costs




                                                       - 57 -

of transportation and the cost of wear and tear and maintenance on vehicles, improved accessibility to major health
care and education facilities (especially for the ill, children, and females), and of course, improved road safety. For
some of the implemented sub-projects, the paved/rehabilitated roads were primary access roads to schools and/or
main roads connecting remote villages together, and to larger population centers.

Employment Generation: Temporary job opportunities improved the livelihoods of the families of laborers form
WBG, most of them have been completely cut off their main source of income since the tightened closure of late
2000; provided momentum to the Palestinian economy by encouraging stone cutting quarries, raw material
importers, and local factories; and also improved the economic livelihood of the families of workers and gave much
relief to the modest economies of small villages.

Other aspects: The damage repair component included the rehabilitation of over 90 primary and secondary
schools throughout WBG which have been subjected to damage caused by military incursions. The rehabilitation
works are anticipated to have helped improve the learning environment for thousands of male and female children.
At least by managing to maintain the status quo in rehabilitated public schools generally known for their
overcrowding and double shifting problems (especially in North and South WB and in Gaza), it is anticipated that
MIDP-2 helped maintain and restore the educational process which has been crippled by physical damage resulting
from incursions. Also, damage repair to public buildings is anticipated to have contributed to improving (if not at
least maintaining or retaining) public service delivery, by rehabilitating offices directly serving the public, and also
physically compensating for lost and damaged office supplies and equipment, in a way that enabled ministries and
public offices to resume their activities.

Social Impact: Although a comprehensive beneficiary assessment is not a requirement for this ICR, this issue was
reviewed in some detail and the impacts were found to be quite positive. A summary of the main impacts is
presented below.

Roads:
    l     Improved access to clinics, schools, and market, especially by asphalting unpaved roads which were
          difficult to travel on, especially during the winter;
    l     Cleaner, paved streets have a greater impact on the health of beneficiaries;
    l     Improved female access to primary health care centers and distant clinics and hospitals, especially for
          remote villages; also improved and safer travel to and from schools;
    l     Easier movement increases social interaction;
    l     Continuation of economic activity (transport of agricultural produce, raw material, laborers, and essential
          goods) between connected villages, and between them on one hand and main cities on the other;
    l     Anticipated savings in transportation time, as well as the costs of transportation and the cost of vehicle
          maintenance.

Damage Repair:
    l     Enabling children to continue their education through the rehabilitation of over 90 primary and secondary
          schools throughout WBG that have been subjected to damage caused by military incursions. The
          rehabilitation works are anticipated to have helped "restore" the learning environment for thousands of
          male and female children;
    l     Repair of damaged public buildings is anticipated to have contributed to improving (if not at least
          maintaining or retaining) public service delivery, by rehabilitating offices directly serving the public, and
          also physically compensating for lost and damaged office supplies and equipment, in a way that enabled
          ministries and public offices to resume their activities;
    l     Provide over 80,000 person-days of temporary employment throughout the project life, there by giving
          additional momentum to the Palestinian economy. This was accomplished by directly and indirectly
          employing stone cutting quarries, raw material importers, and local factories;
    l     Improved the economic livelihood of the families of workers, and giving much needed relief to families in
          the small villages throughout WBG.




                                                           - 58 -

Additional Annex 12. Footnotes


 1. ERP-1 and 2; FY94 and 96 respectively, and MIDP-1, US$40m, FY '97. See project ICRs, respectively dated
    June 25, 1999, December 22, 1999, and December 29, 2003.

 2. The Bank series of reports including the Palestinian Economy and the Intifada: "Four Years ­ Intifada, Crisis
    and Palestinian Economic Crisis", October 2004, present an elaborate discussion on the crisis.

 3. Reference in this report is made to "Bank or IDA" funding. Since the West Bank and Gaza is not a sovereign
    state, it is not eligible for the normal sources of World Bank financing. All credits and grants for WB&G
    projects come from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB), which is funded by the Bank's surplus
    and net income, and administered under IDA terms.

 4. A fourth and relatively amendment was made to the allocation of funds in April 2005 as part of final closing.
    This amendment is not considered here. See Annex 2 for details.

 5. It should again be noted that an informal revision had earlier been made (in 2001) within component "1.A" to
    include (US$0.4m) for labor-intensive job creation. Since this did not constitute a formal change in objectives
    or a significant new sub-component, it is not discussed here

 6. The assessment here was conducted on the basis of recent OED guidelines, see specifically OPCS & OED
    Note dated January 12, 2005.

 7. Mainly the inability to attract sufficient interest from international firms and the difficulties and risks of
    deploying these consultants in the field--see discussion on capacity building in Section 5.1 on Capacity
    Building.

 8. A fourth and relatively minor amendment was made to the allocation of funds in April 2005 as part of final
    closing. This amendment is not considered here. See Annex 2 for details.

 9. Used in assessing achievement of objectives, see Annex 1-D..

10. The amendments referred to are "1": December 2002 and "2": November 2004.

11. See OPCS & OED Note dated January 12, 2005.

12. This was not the final amendment, but was the last significant change prior to closing. A relatively minor
    amendment was being prepared in April 2005 as part of the project closing exercise.




                                                       - 59 -

- 60 -

