Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20031 -GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONNA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.5MILLION
TO THE
WEST BANK & GAZA
FOR THE
SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 16, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
West Bank and Gaza Country Management Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = ILS (New Israeli Sheqalim)
ILS 1 = US$ 0.2472
US$ I = ILS 4.0445
FISCAL YEAR
January   to   December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
B2000   Bethlehem 2000                                MOF       Ministry of Finance
CA      Israeli Civil Administration                  MOPIC   Ministrv of Planning and International Cooperation
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                   MOTA   Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities
CBU     Capacity Building Unit                        MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
CDP-1   First Community Development Project           MPW       Ministry of Public Works
CDP-2   Second Community Development Project          MIDP-1  First Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
CD      Country Director                              MIDP-2  Second Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
CG      Consultative Group                            NCB       National Competitive Bidding
COA     Chart Of Accounts                             NPV       Net Present Value
CQ      Consultants Quality-Based                     NS        National Shopping
DPAU   Director Project Accounting Unit               OPEC    Oil Producing and Exporting Countries
DG      Director General                              PA        Palestinian Authority
ECU     European Currency Unit                        PAU       Project Accounting Unit
EIB     European Investment Bank                      PDP       Palestinian Development Plan
EMP    Enviromnental Management Plan                  PECDAR Palestinian Economic Council for Development and
Reconstruction
EMU    Enviromnental Monitoring Unit                  PMR       Project Management Report
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                       PWA       Palestinian Water Authority
ERP-1   First Emergency Rehabilitation Project        QBS       Quality Based Selection
ERP-2   Second Emergency Rehabilitation Project       QCBS    Quality and Cost Based Selection
ESIMP   Electric Sector Investment and Managernent Project RFP  Request for Proposal
EU      European Union                                SA        Special Account
FE      Financial Expert                              SAWSIP  Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
FMS    Financial Management System                    SBD       Standard Bidding Document
GD      General Director                              SFB       Selection under Fixed Budget
GPN     General Procurement Notice                    SMs       Selected Municipalities
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and     SOE       Statement of Expenditures
Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding             SPN       Specific Procurement Notice
ICR     Implementation Completion Report              SS        Single Source Selection
IDA     International Development Association         TA        Technical Assistance
IS      International Shopping                        TOR       Terns Of Reference
LCS     Least Cost Selection                          UNDB    United Nations Development Business
LG      Local Government                              UNDP   United Nations Development Program
ME      Management Expert                             USAID   United States Agency for International Development
MEnA   Ministry of Enviromental Affairs               WA        Withdrawal Application
MLG    Ministry of Local Government                   WBG       West Bank and Gaza
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager/Director:    Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Teamn Leader:    Kingsley Robothiam



WEST BANK AND GAZA
SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            13
4. Indications of borrower commitrnent and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           15
2. Financial                                                                           15
3. Technical                                                                           16
4. Institutional                                                                       17
5. Environment                                                                        21
6. Social                                                                             22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                     25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25



G. Main Trust Fund Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            26
2. Other                                                                              26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          28
Annex 2: Project Description and Responsibility Matrix                                   32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           39
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       42
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     55
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   56
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  57
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            59
Annex I1: MIDP- 1 Capacity Building Restructuring Plan                                   61
Annex 12: Organogram, Implementation Responsibility Matrix and Work Plan                 71
Annex 13: Draft Implementation Agreement                                                 76
Annex 14: Letter of Road Maintenance Policy                                              80
Annex 15: Social Assessment Summary                                                      84
Annex 16: Environmental Management Plan                                                  91
Annex 17: Detailed Estimated Project Costs                                               98
MAP(S)
IBRD 27791



WEST BANK AND GAZA
SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Infrastructure Development Group
Date: May 16, 2000                                 Team Leader: Kingsley 0. Robotham
Country Manager/Director: Joseph P. Saba           Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: P058683                                Sector(s): UM - Urban Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan          K] Credit       KI Grant         [ Guarantee    1Z Other (Specify)
Trust Fund Credit out of the
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$7.5 million
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: N/A                                     Service charge: 0.75%
-FinmlngE 'ln      Suc                                        l.-c*..   ''v';'  -';''oe;!2';;-''.
GOVERNMENT                                                       4.40            0.00          4.40
OTHER                                                            3.30           10.80         14.10
SPECIAL FINANCING                                                2.70            4.80          7.50
Total:                                                          10.40           15.60         26.00
Borrower: PLO FOR BENEFIT OF PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY
Responsible agency: MINISTRIES OF PUBLIC WORKS (MNW) AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT (MLG)
AND PALESTINIAN WATER AUTHORITY (PWA)
Address: Ramallah
Contact Person: Ministry of Public Works (MPW) - Mr. Maher Ghnaim, Director General
Tel: 02-2400771                 Fax: 02-2400771                 Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Local Government (MLG)
Address: Ramallah
Contact Person: Dr. Hussein A'raj, Deputy Minister, MLG
Tel: 02-2402271               Fax: 02-2402271                 Email:
Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
Address: Ramallah
Contact Person: Mr. Fadel Ka!wash, Deputy Head
Tel: 02-2959022               Fax: 02-2981341                 Email:



Estimated disbursements Bank FYIUS$M_:
Annual      1.3          2.5          2.7         1.0
Cumulative     1.3           3.8         6.5         7.5
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD Fo-n,: Ret March. 2X
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
M7DP-2 is a follow-on project. It utilizes the framework and builds on the initiatives of the on-going (
first) Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP-1, FY96, US$40m). The latter focuses on high
priority infrastructure rehabilitation as well as municipal reform and capacity building in the West Bank
and Gaza (WBG). MIDP-2 also focuses on high priority infrastructure rehabilitation and municipal
capacity building. It will tackle reforms in six new Selected Municipalities (SMs): Jabalia, Khan Younis
(Gaza) and Tulkarem, Al Ram, Jericho and Tarqumia (West Bank). Further, it will begin building
infrastructure (roads) maintenance programming capacity in a new ministry, the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW).
The on-going MIDP-1
The Infrastructure Component of MIDP-I focuses on the rehabilitation and improvement of roads,
drainage, water and sewerage systems in major towns and villages of WBG. The Capacity Building
Component has a national as well as a local dimension.  The national dimension focuses on systemic
legal, institutional and financial reform involving, for example, such issues as: decentralization
(central/local relationships); revenue mobilization and sharing; regional investment programming; and the
role, structure and capacity of the Ministry of Local Government (MLG). The local (municipal) dimension
focuses on improving financial planning and management; modernizing accounting systems; improving
revenue mobilization and cost recovery; strengthening service delivery; preserving existing infrastructural
assets; and rationalizing roles and responsibilities (including commercializing and privatizing service
provision). These local reforms are currently being piloted in five SMs: Nablus, Jenin, Hebron (West
Bank), Gaza and Rafah (Gaza).
MIDP-1 was the third in a series of IDA supported Infrastructure Projects in WBG. It followed two projects which focused
on Emergency Rehabilitation, the Emergency Rehabilitation Projects one and two (ERP-1, FY '94 and ERP-2, FY 96). These
two projects, the first and third of the IDA investment in WBG, aimed only on relieving bottlenecks and critical system
improvement. They contained no significant sector reforms.
MIDP-2 also complements the Bethlehem 2000 project (FY '99) which supports similar institutional reforms in the five
Bethlehem Area Municipalities (Bethlehem, B. Sahour, B. Jala, Doha and Khader).
As appraised in FY97, MIDP- 1 was part of a much larger overall program of high priority infrastructure
rehabilitation and improvement and LG capacity building. The cost of this program was estimated at
$160m. Because of its many other commitments in WBG, the Bank was only able to fund $40m of this
requirement, leaving the program 75 percent unfunded. A number of donors, notably Italy, Greece and
OPEC have agreed to cofinance with the Bank, and a few others (mainly EIB and EU) have shown some
interest in providing infrastructure support. However, the needs of the municipalities and villages are great
and even with this new interest to provide funding for the sector is most inadequate. Some 50 percent of
the roads in Gaza and 40 percent of the roads in the West Bank are either unpaved or below acceptable
service levels. Also, water consumption at 60 liters per capita per day is far below regional standards (for
example: 137 in Jordan; 113 in Tunisia). The problem is exacerbated by the wide geographical dispersion
of the more than 600 villages and village councils which house some 40 percent of the population of the
West Bank. Here the problems of accessibility and reliable water supplies are particularly acute. Finally,
to-date only one donor (USAID) has shown demonstrable interest in institutional reforrn and capacity
-3 -



building at central or local levels; and other Bank infrastructure sector projects focus on reforns in specific
geographical areas or, as is the case of the Community Development Project (CDP-1), on limited small
scale interventions. Hence the needfor this follow-on project: MIDP-2.
Current Status: MIDP- I is proceeding satisfactorily. As of end-March 2000, 78 percent of the available
funding had been committed to some 238 physical sub-projects, and 77 percent of this funding had been
disbursed. The infrastructure component is ahead of schedule. The more complex capacity building
component, as anticipated, is progressing much more slowly. Still, significant progress is being made. The
SMs are in the process of preparing their three-year investment and development plans, and the plans for
the installation of modem accrual-based accounting systems are well advanced. The software has been
selected, and system implementation is in progress.
Following a lengthy review with MLG during the latter half of 1999, the national component was
restructured. This restructuring will strengthen the framework for reform and provide better focus and
support for the reform effort. An extract from the restructured reform program is presented in Annex 11.
The complete document has been placed on the projectfile.
MIDP-2, Objectives and Strategies
Objectives: MIDP-2 will continue the effort begun under MIDP-1 to help:
i   Improve infrastructural services (roads, water, drainage and sewerage) to and within villages and
municipalities in WBG, and preserve existing infrastructural assets; and
e Strengthen municipal and central governmental capacity to plan, program, finance, manage and
maintain local services.
The Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement Component focuses mainly on strengthening the
regional road network, thus improving village and municipal accessibility, particularly in the West Bank. It
also assists in rehabilitating and improving water and sanitation services mainly within (but not limited to)
villages and municipalities in the Northern West Bank. The backlog in this area is great and is not
currently being adequately addressed by other IDA or other donor-supported projects.
The Capacity Building Component aims at continuing to strengthen MLG, and beginning to strengthen six
additional municipalities and MPW. Support for the latter will focus on building systematic road
maintenance programming capability. Until recently MPW was too weak to play its role effectively and
road maintenance programming was non-existent. The proposed support will begin to help remedy this,
and help lay a foundation for MPW's efficient development.
Strategy: The strategic framework for infrastructure improvement, institutional reform and capacity
building in the local government sector is already well defined in the on-going MIDP- I (see Annex 11).
MIDP-2 utilizes this framework to continue to improve infrastructure and services in WBG and build local
capacity.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators are:
*  Improved Infrastructural Services: 1) km of main, access and internal roads rehabilitated and/or
maintained annually: yr 2: 50 (km); yr 3: 90 (km); yr 4: 126 (km); 2) km of water pipes laid annually:
yr 2: 10 (km); yr 3: 25 (km); yr 4: 44.7 (km);
-4 -



*  Improved Central Governmental Capacity (MPW): 1) Establishment of capable and well staffed road
maintenance programming and management unit/department in MPW by the end of yr 3; 2) timely
preparation of realistic and sustainable annual road maintenance programs and plans by MPW by the
end of yr 3; 3) percent of primary and secondary road network for which a long-tern maintenance
program has been developed: end yr 3: 50 (%); end yr 4: 100 (%); 4) percent of routine and periodic
maintenance on the primary and secondary road network done by contract: by end yr 3: 60-70 (%); end
yr 4: 80-85 (%); 5) Establishment of an environmental monitoring unit by MPW within 2 months of
effectiveness; 6) Preparation of environmental guidelines for contractors within 6 months of
effectiveness; and 7) Completion of training workshops for MPW contractors by the end of year 1.
*   Improved Municipal Capacity (MLG): 1) Installation of modem, computerized, accrual-based
accounting systems in SMs by end yr 3; 2) preparation by SMs of realistic and sustainable annual
infrastructure investmnent programs end yr 3; 3) annual percent increase in cost recovery on municipal
services by end yr 4; and 4) beginning of corporatization of key municipal services (water, electricity,
sanitation, etc.) by end yr 4;
These indicators were discussed and agreed at Negotiations.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: [----]                   Date of latest CAS discussion:
Context: The recent history of WBG  has been one of occupation, under investment-neglected
infrastructure, hopes of peace and political settlements, repeated political crises and attendant violence;
increasing unemployment as a result of repeated border closures; severe restrictions on the movement of
people and goods; lack of authority over resource allocation; increasing disillusionment regarding political
possibilities; and economic decline brought about by political uncertainty. This is a context of high
uncertainty and risk. The latter requires that the Bank continue to provide close on-ground support, and
to be flexible and responsive to changing circumstances.
Country Strategy: The Bank's assistance strategy is outlined in the Board paper entitled "A World Bank
Group Strategy for the West Bank and Gaza and a Request for Replenishment of the Trust Fundfor Gaza
and the West Bank (R98-96 dated April 28, 1998). The strategy sets out the key themes around which the
future work program will be focused. Two of these themes are of particular relevance here:
*   Developing an environment conducive to private sector activity; and
* Setting the stage for the emergence of self-governing institutions on a sustainable basis.
MIDP-2 addresses these themes by continuing to help to improve high priority infrastructure; continuing
the local government (LG) institutional, financial and managerial refonns begun under MIDP-1 (including
encouragement of private provision of LG services where feasible); and beginning to strengthen the road
maintenance planning and managerial capacity of MPW, thus helping to preserve existing public assets;
and by improving service coverage, quality and reliability, increasing accessibility, and reducing
transportation costs. These initiatives will help improve the quality of life of the population and also help
create an enabling environment for private investment.
-5 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The most relevant sector issues are:
* Infrastructure Rehabilitation: Reducing the huge backlog -- a legacy of 20 years of neglect; improving
accessibility; preserving existing assets; establishing a sound strategic framework for development; and
developing a sustainable system for managing and financing improvements; and
* Local Governance and Service Delivery. Rationalizing central and local government roles and
responsibilities; developing an efficient, legal, institutional, fiscal and financial framework; and
strengthening investment and maintenance programming, finance, management and service delivery
capacity.
Infrastructure and services levels are far below Israel and significantly below regional standards. Local
and national institutions are weak and under-funded, mandates are unclear, and the potential for
privatization largely unexplored.
Government Strategy: While the PA does not yet have fully developed strategy in any of the above areas,
the 1998-2000 Palestinian Development Plan (PDP) presented to the December 1998 Consultative Group
(CG) in Paris is an important step in this right direction. Rehabilitation and improvement of infrastructure
are critical objectives of the PDP, together with increasing reliance on the private sector and improving
governance. Under MIDP, MLG is working to develop a strategy and a framework for the local
government sector, and work has begun by the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
(MOPIC) and MPW on developing a strategy for the roads and transport sector. The latter is being
supported by the Bank7.
3/
A Bank supported transport sector study has just been completed.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
MIDP-2 seeks to support reforms at both central and local levels by engaging ministries and municipalities
in a dialogue on the improvement and reform of local service delivery, and by initiating these local
reforms where possible. In one key area, however, MIDP-2 is breaking new ground. This is in the long
neglected area of maintenance programming in the road sector. But even here the objectives are relatively
modest. MIDP-2 does not seek to address LG policy reform at the national level. This is already being
addressed under the on-going MIDP-1. Nor does MIDP-2 seek, by itself, to implement major reforms in
the areas of water and sanitation, electricity or transport. These are already being addressed or is
scheduled to be addressed under other IDA projects (see below).
MIDP-2 complements the sector reform - focused projects such as MIDP-1, the Southern Area Water and
Sanitation Improvement project (SAWSIP, FY '99 US$21m), Electric Sector Investment and Management
Project (ESIMP, FY '00, US$15m), and an envisaged future Transport Sector Reform project. It also
complements the ongoing Community Development projects (CDP-1, FY '97, US$10; and CDP-2, FY '99,
US$8) which both focus on poverty and small scale sub-projects (US$50-150,000) in villages and
municipalities.
Support to MPW: The question of which additional government infrastructural agencies to begin
strengthening under MIDP-2 was a key issue, and was examined in depth with Palestinian authorities.
MPW was the obvious candidate. It has the political and administrative mandate for maintaining and
-6 -



improving the main, regional and village access road networks under Palestinian jurisdiction, but it is
relatively new, lacks resources and is struggling to deliver on its mandate. Also, over the last two years, it
has repeatedly requested Bank assistance in capacity building. Furthennore, MPW's request for assistance
is strongly supported by the Ministiy of Finance (MOF) and MOPIC. With respect to the choice of SMs,
this was made by MLG and supported by the Bank. While other choices are possible, the SMs chosen
represent a good and manageable selection within WVBG based on need, geographical distribution,
population size and economic and political importance.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
- -; Comni6pne             -$-i ector  i.s   ;:@'
I. lnfrastructure Rehabilitation and                               0.0                  0.0
Improvement (Works would be
undertaken outside of as well as
within SMs):
A. Rehabilitation and improvement   Highways        18.10       69.6      2.80      37.3
of regional road network, including
drainage and essential services.
B. Rehabilitation and improvement   Other Water      3.10       11.9      0.70       9.3
of village and municipal water supply   Supply &
and sewerage networks.             Sanitation
II. Capacity Building Support:                                     0.0                  0.0
A. to MPW for initiating systematic  Institutional   1.90        7.3      1.60      21.3
road maintenance (including        Development
Environmental monitoring during
construction).
B. to MLG and SMs for continued    Institutional     2.50        9.6      2.10      28.0
SM investment and development      Development
programming; improving accounting
systems, revenue mobilization,
management and service delivery.
III. Incremental Operational Expense                               0.0                  0.0
Support:
A. To MPW                                            0.10        0.4      0.10        1.3
B. To MLG                                            0.30        1.2      0.20       2.7
Total Project Costs                   26.00      100.0      7.50      100.0
Total Financing Required                    26.00      100.0      7.50     100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
MIDP-2 supports the following key reforms: 1) road maintenance programming and consolidating
responsibility for road system planning and management at MPW; and 2) investrnent programming,
accounting systems and service delivery reforms at the municipal level (see Section B-3 above).
3. Benefits and target population:
Significant benefits would accrue to the populations in the villages and SMs served. About 400,000
persons in 35 communities in WBG are expected to benefit directly. Benefits would include: improvements
in infrastructural services, including reductions in vehicle operating costs and travel times; increase in the
number of households provided with secure and reliable water and sanitation services; improvements in
public health and environmental conditions; employment generation (about 700 person years directly);
preservation of public assets; improvement in the conditions for private sector investment and development;
and improvement in the fiscal efficiency of the SMs. National benefits would also accrue in the fonn of
reduced demands on the national budget as a result of SM efforts to improve cost recovery and mobilize
revenues, and there would be a general improvement in urban efficiency.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be implemented over a four (4) year period beginning July 1, 2000 and ending [June 30,
2004]. The closing date would be December 31, 2004. The proposed work plan is attached at Annex 12.
Project implementation would be the responsibility of MPW, Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) and
IVIILG, with MLG playing the overall coordinating role. A summary of the implementation arrangements is
presented below. An Organogram and a more detailed Responsibility Matrix are presented in Annex 12.
Component                            Sector              Preparation and Implementation
Responsibility               Responsibility
A. Infrastructure Rehabilitation
*  Regional roads                     MPW       *  MPW, in consultation with MLG and MOPIC.
*  Municipal and village water and    PWA       .  PWA, in consultation with MLG, municipalities
sanitation                                      & villages.
B. Capacity Building
* MPW                                 MPW    * MPW
.  MLG                                MLG       .  MLG, in consultation with and with the support
of SMs.
C. Incremental Operating Expenses
Support
*  Overall project monitoring,                  *  MLG with cooperation and support from MPW,
accounting, auditing and reporting              PWA & SMs.
MPW: MPW would be responsible for the identification, preparation, implementation, monitoring
(including environmental monitoring during construction) and reporting on the regional road component.
The specific roads have been selected in consultation with MLG and MOPIC. MPW would also be
responsible for road maintenance system development and programming, and for its own capacity building
components.
-8-



PWA: PWA would implement the relatively small water and sanitation component.
MLG: MLG would be responsible for supporting and overseeing the capacity building program at the local
level. Support to SMs would be provided by MLG's Capacity Building Unit (CBU) and the Project
Accounting Unit (PAU) already established under MIDP-1. The stronger SMs would be encouraged and
assisted to implement the sub-components in their domain on their own, but within a framework established
by MILG. The latter would be documented in Implementation Agreements between MILG and each of the
SMs (see draft Agreement in Annex 13). Execution of these Agreements on Terms and Conditions
satisfactory to IDA is a Condition of Effectiveness. MLG would also be responsible for overall project,
management, accounting, auditing, monitoring and reporting. It is perhaps worth noting here that these
capacities are not currently well developed at MLG. This is a relatively new area for them and it may
take some time before they are able to perform the above tasks without external assistance. Thus, in
undertaking these responsibilities MILG would be assisted by competent consultants recruited on a
competitive basis acceptable to IDA and supported under the project. The employment of these
consultants, the establishment by MLG of an effective project monitoring and accounting unit, and the
appointment of auditors acceptable to IDA are a Condition of Effectiveness.
Financial Management
The Project will be managed by three implementing agencies, i.e, MLG, MPW and PWA, each for its part
of the project components. Each of those agencies will manage its own Special Account and disbursement
processes. However, for purposes of overall project management, consolidation of project accounts and
financial statements will be undertaken by MLG's PAU (below). The Financial Management Systems at
the three agencies were assessed and found to be adequate for presenting the project to the Bank's Board.
Details of the assessments of financial management system at the three entities and the disbursement
arrangements are in Annex 6. A summary on each implementation agency is presented below.
MLG: The Project Accounting Unit (PAU) at MLG, which was established under MIDP-1, will be in
charge of all project transactions and accounting for MLG's portion of the project and issue project
quarterly reports and annual financial statements. The financial management system at PAU includes
adequate computerized accounting system, budgeting system, accounting policies and procedural manuals,
intemnal auditing, and proper segregation of duties on all related functions, including disbursement. The
accounting policies comply with International Accounting Standards and are based on accrual accounting,
standard disclosures, assets and liability valuation, forex accounting etc. The PAU is well structured but
needs to be: (i) fully staffed to ensure the proper operation of project management and; (ii) set up separate
chart of accounts for the project to allow automatic generation of PMRs. It was agreed that the hiring two
qualified accounting staff will be a Condition of Effectiveness; steps for completing the project chart of
accounts are described in the FM Action Plan (Annex 6). A separate Special Account will be opened for
the MLG portion of the Credit, and this SA will be solely operated by MLG. MLG will prepare its own
withdrawal applications and submit them to IDA for funds transfer.
In addition to accounting for MLG's transactions, the PAU will be responsible for the overall accounting
and reporting of the project and coordinate with other implementing entities. In undertaking this task,
MLG will need the support and cooperation of MPW and PWA; specific arrangements to ensure proper
flow of information are included in the Action Plan (Annex 6). PAU will maintain its project accounts and
submit quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) to IDA starting July 1, 2001. MLG is also legally
obliged to uncommission annual audits of the project.
-9-



PWA: Financial management of PWA's portion will be carried out by PWA's financial and accounting
department. The PWA is a revenue earning entity and uses commercial accounting for all its activities. It
has well established accounting department staffed with five full time qualified accountants and has written
accounting policies and procedural manuals, budgeting manual, EDP system manual. Also, it has full-time
experienced internal auditor and two computer IT specialists. The accounting system is computerized and
uses local software (Bisan). The financial management system was designed and implemented through
professional services with a qualified consulting firm under previous IDA financed project, Southern Area
Water and Sanitation Project (SAWSIP). Similar to SAWSIP, a separate chart of accounts would be set
up for MIDP-2 to allow automatic generation of PMRs (Action Plan; Annex 6). PWA is expected to start
PMR-based disbursement under SAWSIP and start to submission of quarterly PMRs to IDA starting July
1, 2000. Under MIDP-2 PWA will prepare quarterly PMRs and submit them to MLG for consolidation
and submission to IDA. A separate Special Account will be opened for the PWA portion of the Credit and
this SA will be solely managed by PWA. PWA will prepare its own withdrawal applications and submit
them to IDA for funds transfer.
MPW: Financial management of MPW's portion will be carried out by MPW's financial and accounting
departments, which will assume accounting and reporting responsibility. The FMS at MPW included
adequate semi-automated accounting system, accounting manual, project management manual, adequate
staffing, sufficient internal controls and proper segregation of duties and adequate reporting capacity. The
project accounting follows IAS and recorded on double-entry accrual basis. Project reports are prepared
periodically to monitor progress. The finance department of MPW has adequately qualified staffed and
supported by qualified computer staff. Accordingly, there will be no need to set up separate PIU to
manage the accounting of the project. The finance department will assume the accounting and reporting
responsibility. MPW will prepare quarterly PMRs and submit them to MLG for consolidation and
submission to IDA.
A separate Special Account will be opened for the MPW portion of the Credit and this SA will be solely
managed by MPW. MPW will prepare its own withdrawal application (WA) and submit them to IDA for
funds transfer.
Project annual financial statements, Special Accounts and SOEs for all implementing agencies will be
audited annually by private independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited financial statements and
reports will be submitted to IDA within six months after end of fiscal year. The first audit report is due for
the year 2000 on June 30, 2001. Appointment of Auditors to the project is the responsibility of MILG and
would be a Condition of Effectiveness. PWA, as revenue earning entity, will also submit annual financial
statements for the entity along with the audited financial statements for the Project accounts and the special
accounts. Currently, PWA has a private auditor acceptable to IDA for the entity and the Special Account
and Project Accounts of SAWSIP.
The funds will flow from IDA to the Special Accounts of the related implementing agency (MPW, PWA
and MLG) which will be opened at commercial banks with conditions and terms acceptable to IDA.
Disbursement will be on traditional basis, including SOE which will be used for disbursements below
$250,000. As PMRs, for all project components by the respective agencies, are expected to be generated
starting July 1, 2001, The project would convert to PMIR based disbursement having all conversion
requirements are met and the borrower agree for the conversion.
- 10 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Only two alternatives to the current design were considered relevant and seriously examined:
*   ERP-3: A quick village roads project implemented largely by PECDAR as in EPR-1 and ERP-2, the
initial and successful Bank-supported infrastructure rehabilitation projects in WBG now coming to a
close; and
*   Roads-1: A national roads - focused project implemented by MPW.
The decision to limit consideration to these two was informed by the urgency of responding to the problems
of the municipalities and villages as expressed by the Palestinian authorities (MOF, MLG and MPW), and
knowledge of the focus and domain of ongoing and planned Bank-supported projects, see below.
Neither of the above-mentioned alternatives envisaged any significant policy reform or capacity building
content-in contradiction to current country and sector development strategy. They were thus rejected.
Further, the first alternative, "ERP-3", by relying heavily on existing capacity built up at PECDAR under
previous Bank projects, negated the possibility of initiating significant institutional and policy reform at
MPW or MLG. In this context it is important to note that Bank strategy in WBG has evolved significantly
since its initial focus on emergency measures. Institutional reform and capacity building is now a core
component of strategy.
The second alternative, Roads-i, was considered too narrow given the urgent and widespread needs of the
municipalities and villages. Also, it was felt that such a full-fledged national roads project should await the
outcome of current road and transport sector studies which are expected to lay out a strategy for the
development of the sector.
Finally, neither alternative addressed the strong and urgent demand coming from MLG and MPW for broad
sector and capacity building support. Both ministries urgently desire to deliver on their political and
administrative mandates. MPW, in particular, feel very strongly that they have been neglected by IDA and
the rest of the donor community.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as _ i - rlision
Setor 1ssu_ -                                                    f8t--f; -at--pRQins:
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Urban: Reducing basic infrastructure   Municipal Infrastructure      S             S
and services backlog; generating  Development Project (MIDP-1,
employment in response to border  FY96, US$40m).
closures; Local Government sector
Reform and Capacity Building.
- 11 -



First Emergency Rehabilitation   S            S
Project (ERP-1, FY94,
US$30m; closed Dec. 1998).
Second Emergency                 S            S
Rehabilitation Project (ERP-2,
FY96, US$20m; closed June
1999).
Urban, Tourism Development and   Bethlehem 2000 Project           S             S
Cultural Heritage Preservation:  (B2000, FY99, US$25m).
Accelerate the development of tourism
in the Bethlehem area and Palestine;
strengthen the economic and
infrastructural base of area LGs and
improve financial and managerial
capacity; provide opportunities for
private sector initiatives and
investment.
Poverty and Community Dev.:      Community Development            S             S
Reducing basic rural and community   Project (CDP-1, FY97,
infrastructure and services backlog;   US$1 Om; closed December
generating employment in response to  1999).
border closures.
Community Development            S            S
Project (CDP-2, FY99,
US$8m).
Water and Sanitation: System Reform   Water and Sanitation Services  S          S
and Capacity Building.           Project, (FY97, US$25m).
Water                            Southern Area Water and          S             S
Sanitation Improvement Project
(SAWSIP, FY99, US$21m).
Electricity: Sector Reform and    Electric Sector Investment and   S            S
Capacity Building.                Management Project (ESIMP,
FY'00, US$15m).               ____ ____
Other development agencies
EU:                              Municipal Support Program,
Municipal road rehab.            January 1996 (ECU25m).
UNDP:                            Local Rural Development
Village infra rehab. and capacity  Fund, Jan. 1977 (cost NA).
building.
-12 -



EIB:                               Roads Project, 1999 (cost NA).
Municipal and village road rehab.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
During the course of implementing projects in WBG, including the first five in the Bank (IDA) Assistance
Program, the following key lessons have been learned:
*   There must be strong ownership by and good dialogue with the PA and its constituent organizations, if
necessary reform and implementation decisions are to be taken on a timely basis.
*   Capacity building takes a long time and requires a substantial commitment of Bank staff time and
supervision resources. This is so because institutions are still in their formative stages. Also, the need,
potential and options for reform are not fully appreciated.
*   Planning and implementing in a highly unstable environment such as WBG requires a flexible and
unconventional approach. Often decisions have to be made without adequate information or analysis.
In this context there is a risk that misjudgments will be made. The challenge is not that of meeting
some rigidly predefined set of objectives. It is to act quickly on the basis of the best existing
information and analysis, but to learn, learn quickly, and modify behavior based on learning feedback.
This may require continual redefinition of objectives and even significant project redesign during
implementation.
_   Close on-the-ground supervision by the Bank (IDA) and willingness to be flexible is essential in
adapting the project to local realities.
*   Adequate provisions must be made for issues such as border closures (political risks) which negatively
impact project completion.
*   It is critical that beneficiaries be adequately consulted during project preparation in order that their
needs and priorities are properly reflected in project design.
=   Communities are willing to participate in program formulation and contribute directly (up to 20% of
project costs) for projects which directly benefit their communities.
*   As the development program shifts from "emergency" operations and begins to tackle more complex
issues, the Bank and implementing agencies must develop the capacity to undertake more sophisticated
project appraisal.
*   Greater attention needs to be paid by the borrower to the timely acquisition of land and building
permits if significant implementation delays are to be avoided.
*   The provision of operating support to implementing units is critical to establishing managerial and
technical capacity.
To the extent possible, these lessons have all been built into the current project design. In particular, very
good working relationships have been developed with MLG and MPW  at the highest political and
administrative levels and strong commitments to project success exist (see below). Similarly strong
relationships are being formed with the SMs and the key stakeholders therein. Also, the project is
scheduled over 4 years, providing for the vicissitudes of work in WBG and adequate time for the slow
- 13 -



business of capacity building to take hold. Because the infrastructure program focuses largely on the
regional road network it was not feasible to expect significant community contributions. However, the
possibility of these contributions will be explored during implementation with respect to municipal and
village water supplies. Finally, with the supervision team on the ground, the project will be adjusted as
necessary, based on feedback during implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The ministers in charge of MLG and MPW have both made very strong appeals to the Bank for help and
have committed themselves personally to the project. At his own initiative, the Minister of Local
Government has gone so far as to have personally initiated the drafting and signing of a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with the Country Director for WBG in November 1998. This MOU commits MLG
to entering into a long term relationship with the Bank in policy reform (through MIDP) and capacity
building in the following areas: 1) Project Planning, Investment Programming and Management; 2)
Project Finance and Accounting; 3) Development Planning and Zoning; 4) Legal aspects of Local
Governance and Planning.
With respect to the roads sector, in mid-1998 the Minister of Public Works also wrote to the Country
Director requesting Bank assistance with funding and investment programming, and has given a written
undertaking to execute the reforms requested by the Bank in the areas of road maintenance programming,
project planning, programming and management. This undertaking is documented in a Letter of Road
Maintenance Policy which is attached at Annex 14.
At another level, MOF and the MOPIC have both repeatedly indicated their strong support for continued
municipal investment and capacity building efforts to strengthen the main infrastructure and LG sector
ministries. Both ministers believe strongly that it is time for MLG and MPW to fully assure that
responsibilities and begin delivering on their mandates, and that the Bank should assist in this maturation
process.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been in the forefront of the donor effort to provide support to the Palestinians and has led the
way in infrastructure rehabilitation, policy reform and capacity building. Under MIDP-1 a major reform\
initiative is underway in the LG sector, and MIDP-1 now provides the framework for all of MLG's
institutional and policy reform and capacity building initiatives -- a framework within which all the major
donors have agreed to work. MIDP-2 continues these efforts, extending them to new ministries and
municipalities.
The confidence reposed in the Bank's work by MLG and MPW is amply testified to in Section 4 above.
Few donors are willing or have the capacity and patience to do this work which is vital to the sustainable
development of the sectors involved. Here the Bank is both indispensable and unrivaled. With respect to
the road maintenance programming, this represents the first real attempt by the PA to begin to address the
important infrastructure maintenance and recurrent cost problem systematically -- a long neglected issue.
Here the Bank is again helping the PA to break new ground.
- 14 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=TUS$ million; ERR = 47 %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
The objectives of MIDP-2 are to improve infrastructure services in local jurisdictions and to build
planning, programming, financial, managerial and technical capacities in central and municipal
governments. The project builds on the ongoing MIDP-1 by strengthening regional road networks,
extending capacity building activities to six new municipalities and the MPW, while continuing to
strengthen the MLG.
The more easily measurable economic benefits are derived from the infrastructure investments that
constitute 63 % of base project costs (without price and physical contingencies) and 76% of total project
cost when contingencies are added. Roads and a small component of key water supply projects make up
this component.
Roads: A list of projects totaling about $161 million was reduced to 14 candidates by eliminating: projects
where other financing was available; tertiary (low volume) roads; urban roads; non-maintenance projects;
projects requiring land acquisition or resettlement; and, projects requiring Israeli approval. These 14
projects were subjected to cost benefit and internal rate of return analyses, and 11 projects totaling $14.0
million (Base costs) were economically justified. Economic Rates of Return (ERR) ranged from 25% to
80% with a weighted average of 50%. These ERR proved robust under sensitivity analysis; the worse case
scenario required cost increase of 140% or a reduction in benefits of 25% in the most vulnerable project for
it to be rejected.
Water: Four out of six projects examined provided economically acceptable rates of return, ranging from
24% to 42%, and averaging 29% for the total investment. Even the lowest of these remained acceptable
under sensitivity testing, yielding 18% after cost increases of 10% and simultaneous 10% reduction in
benefits.
Summary: The combined investments in roads and water supply yielded the weighted average 46%
internal rate of return. Annex 4 lists and summarizes ERR for the individual infrastructure investments.
Level of Risk: It is an accepted reality that all projects in West Bank/Gaza face a significant level of risk
(see Sections B 1 & F). The major risks are associated with inadequate capacities at MLG and MPW and,
of course, political turmoil. On the former are subject to mitigation by Bank-financed project intervention.
In this case, technical assistance and training include specific focus on this vulnerability.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The estimated total cost of the project is US$26m, including contingencies and taxes. The proposed Credit
of US$7.5m would cover about 30% of total project costs. The balance would be covered from donor
cofinancing contributions (estimated at US$14.lm equivalent), and the PA (mainly VAT, estimated at
-15 -



US$4.4m equivalent). The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$9.4m, 36% of the total
project cost. Physical contingencies have been allowed for at 10% of base costs and price contingencies at
3% per annum in accordance with World Bank/IDA guidelines over the four-year implementation period
beginning July 1, 2000. The closing date would be December 31, 2004.
Approximately 47% (US$3.5m) of the proposed IDA Credit would be used to finance the rehabilitation and
improvement of high-priority infrastructure assets; 49% (US$3.7m) would be used to support capacity
building in MPW and MLG; and 0.3% (US$0.3m) would be used for overall project management
monitoring, accounting and reporting.
A number of Donors including the Saudi Fund and Italy have shown interest in cofinancing jointly or in
parallel. The Saudi Fund has tentatively agreed to provide US$5.Om for roads, and Italy is currently in the
process of defining its contribution.
(Details on project costs and financing are presented in Annexes 2, 3, 5 & 17.)
Fiscal Impact:
The most direct measure of fiscal impact is the taxes that the Government has to forego (around US$4.4m)
as its contribution to the total project costs. It is anticipated that the maintenance requirements for the water
investments can be met without undue stress, especially in view of the ongoing municipal finance and
management reforns. However, meeting the significant periodic funding requirements of the road
maintenance program will require special measures. As a consequence, the MPW in its Letter of Road
Maintenance Policy (discussed and agreed at Negotiations; see Annex 14) has undertaken to establish a
roads fund from which investments such as these may be made.
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound. Preliminary technical assessments were made of some [40] road
sub-projects valued at about $30m. These were selected from the 1999-2003 Palestinian Development
Plan which cites numerous sub-projects valued in excess of $160m. Each Road sub-project was visited
and reviewed with MPW for priority in terms of importance in improving regional accessibility (to villages
and municipalities), technical feasibility, economic feasibility, political and social priority, regional balance
(West Bank/Gaza, and West Bank North/Central/South), and readiness for implementation. Based on these
criteria, eleven 11 sub-projects valued at $16.9m were selected for detailed consideration under MIDP-2.
These sub-projects were then subjected to further detailed technical and economic evaluation and confirmed
with MPW and MLG. (See Annex 2 for a description of the sub-projects). On August 16, 1999 a
workshop was held at MPW with all the key ministries and agencies involved in or potentially affected by
the proposed project. At this workshop the infrastructure and other components were discussed and agreed.
Ten (10) water and wastewater and sanitation sub-projects were initially selected from a long list submitted
by PWA. This list was subject to a similar review with PWA. Four sub-projects were finally selected for
detailed review. All met the economic assessment criteria (ERR > 14%). They also met distributional
criteria as well. An Environmental Assessment will be performed prior to the implementation of the water
projects.
- 16 -



The MPW Capacity Building Sub-Component: This sub-component which focuses on developing a Road
Maintenance Management System is a fairly standard one and draws on the Bank's long experience with
similar components worldwide. Essentially, it will rely on the employment of reputable internationally
recruited consultants. The details of this sub-component have been discussed and agreed with MPW. The
draft terms of reference for this consultancy have been prepared and is on the projectfile.
The MLG Capacity Building Sub-component is based essentially on similar work already on-going in
four of the five SMs under MIDP-1, and work scheduled to begin shortly in the five SMs under B2000.
The task in each SM involves: 1) undertaking detailed analyses of municipal services including reviews of
revenues, expenditures, performance, structure, beneficiary assessment, needs and option for the future;
and 2) preparing a feasible and cost effective 3- year investment/development plans, having regard to the
need to improve service delivery and cost recovery and place the municipality on a sound and sustainable
financial and institutional foundation. There is nothing new or noteworthy here, except that the new SMs
can now draw on the already very positive experience of the current MIDP-I SMs, thus reducing the
learning time. Draft terms of reference for the employment of consultants and the implementation of the
sub-component have been prepared and are on the Project File.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The key organizations involved in the project are MPW, MLG, and PWA. MPW and MLG are briefly
discussed below (see organogram in Annex 12).
The PWA has a relatively small role to play. It is a well established organization which is already working veiy closely with
IDA on implementing Water and Sanitation projects in WBG. Since it has already been evaluated in detail under these
projects, it is thus not discussed here.
The Ministry of Public Works
The MPW is responsible for the planning, development and management of the main, regional, and village
and municipal access roads under Palestinian jurisdiction. It was established in 1994 from elements of the
former Israeli Civil Administration (CA) in West Bank and in Gaza, and inherited a considerable number
of technical and non-technical Palestinian staff from the CA, particularly in Gaza.
Until recently MPW was neglected, relatively weak and short of funds for investment and operations. Also,
its role vis-a-vis PECDAR has been (and remains) relatively undefined -- PECDAR having preceded the
formation of MPW and having been the major vehicle for road sector funding by donors. Within the last
year or so, MPW has moved quickly to take control of the sector and to discharge the responsibilities that
flow from its mandate. However, despite having an agreed budget, it does not receive funding for works on
a regular and predictable basis from MOF. Also, it only receives a very limited amount of development
funding from donor agencies. Within the same period MPW has received significant amounts of
road-building equipment from a number of donors but is unable to efficiently deploy this equipment
because of the above mentioned lack of regular funding to purchase materials and supplies. This is so quite
apart from the well established fact that it is inefficient for the Ministry to build up this large pool of
equipment and to attempt to execute development and maintenance work by force account. Further
complicating the above issue is the significant pool of skilled technical and laborer inherited from the CA.
In the face of high levels on unemployment, particularly in but not limited to Gaza, MPW is under political
- 17 -



and social pressure to deploy the recently obtained equipment to occupy the inherited labor pool. The net
result of the above factors is an inefficient allocation of resources.
With respect to the structure of MPW, its head quarters are located in the West Bank. This office is
headed by the Minister and the Director General for the entire ministry. There is a separate and larger
office in Gaza which appears to have a fair degree of operational authority. This office is headed by a
Deputy Minister.
A list of the main departments and their staffing is presented in the table below.
Department/Office                                               Staffing
West Bank             Gaza                Total
I  Executive                                   2                  3                   5
2   Technical Affairs                         50                  322                372
3   Management & Financial Affairs            24                  45                  69
4   Planning & Studies                         3                                       3
5  Provinces                                   3                  11                  14
Total                                     82                  381                463
In addition to the executive, there are four main departments: Technical Affairs, Management and Financial
Affairs, Planning and Studies, and Provinces. The total staffing is about 463 persons, with the Gaza office
accounting for 82% of the staff. Within each region and MPW as a whole, the Technical Department
predominates, accounting for most of the staff -- 80% overall, 61% in the West Bank and 85% in Gaza.
Within the Technical Affairs department the distribution of staff by skill and function is as follows:
Category                                   West Bank             Gaza                Total
1   Prof. & Technical                          40                 145                 185
2   Support staff                              10                  3                   13
3   Skilled labor                                                 171                 171
4   Unskilled labor                                                3                   3
Total                                     50                  322                372
It can be seen from the above that the Gaza office dominates in tenns of professional and technical staff
(145 out of a total of 372), and that there are a large number of skilled labor (171 out of the departmental
total of 372). It is this high build up of professional and technical staff and skilled labor in Gaza --
largely inherited, as noted above, from the Israeli CA -- that is partly driving the current policy offorce
account within MPW.
The project would not aim to restructure MNPW. This must await the result of the more detailed sector and
institutional studies currently underway. What the project would try to do, however, is to assist MPW to:
1. Establish and begin implementing an effective road maintenance management system including, the
technical, institutional and financial dimensions;
2. Help develop the system of contracting out for routine and periodic maintenance, using the private
sector to the greatest possible extent; and
- 18-



3. Begin to redeploy the pool of professional and technical staff, skilled labor and plant on a worse
efficient basis. This could include "plant-pooling" with the private sector on a commercial basis,
and encouraging excess staff to go into business on their own.
Roads Maintenance Policy: MPW has documented the above issues and objectives in their "Letter of
Road Maintenance Policy" (see Annex 14). The Ministry's commitments with respect to the above were
discussed and agreed at Negotiations.
The Ministry of Local Government and the SMs
These institutions are both relatively weak. However, MLG is receiving a major capacity building support
under MIDP- 1 from a number of other donors, including USAID, UNDP and the Netherlands. If properly
utilized, this assistance should enable MLG to effectively exercise its responsibilities under the project.
While MLG is a large organization with many departnents and regional offices, only two departments of
MLG are particularly relevant in the current context: the Capacity Building Unit (CBTL9 and the Project
Accounting Unit (PA U). These are briefly discussed below and an organogram is presented at the end of
Annex 11. The details are presented in the MIDP- 1 Restructuring Plan which is on the Project File (see
also extract at Annex 11).
CBU: The CBU is responsible for assisting MLG to implement the reform process and to provide support
to SMs. The Unit has had problems and is currently being restructured to improve its effectiveness. In
particular, international recruitment is now underway for the three top posts: General Director (GD) LG,
Finance Expert (FE) and LG Management Expert (ME). The CBU GD reports to the Director General
(DG) of MIG who, in turn, reports to the Deputy Minister. He/She is responsible for managing the CBU
and the coordination of the national reform effort on a day-to-day basis. The FE reports to the GD and
would be responsible for finance policy reform. The ME also reports to the GD and would mainly be
responsible for supporting the SM program. The GDs post became vacant because the previous incumbent
proved unsuitable and has been transferred to other duties in MEG. The posts of FE and ME  were
previously unfilled.
The recruitment of the above three senior staff for CBU on terns and conditions acceptable to IDA
was discussed and agreed at Negotiations. The employment by MLG of the three professionals and the
effective operationalization of the CBU on ter.ns and conditions satisfactory to IDA are a condition of
disbursement on the MLG Capacity Building Component.
Effective operationalization means that staffing, systems, procedures and logistics support are in place, have been tested and
are ready to be utilized for project management, monitoring, reporting, accounting and auditing.
PAU: The PAU is a new unit recently established at MLG under MIDP- 1 and Bethlehem 2000 (B2000).
This unit has two key responsibilities: (i) to coordinate the accounting systems reform component of
MIDP-1; and (ii) undertake overall project accounting, monitoring, reporting and auditing for B2000 and
this proposed project. The unit is currently staffed by two qualified accountants, one of whom is the
Director (DPAU). The DPAU reports to the Director General of MLG, advises MLG and the SMs on
accounting systems reform issues, and oversees the work of the unit. The accountant currently in the unit
is responsible for overseeing the routine project accounting work related to B2000 and MIDP. Two
additional qualified accountants will be recruited for the PAU, bringing the accounting strength to three
- 19 -



professionals plus the Director. Two of these accountants would focus on project accounting work, while
the other would provide support to the Director on system reform issues.
The recruitment of the above two qualif ied accountants for PA U on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA and the establishment of project accounting monitoring and reporting systems acceptable to IDA
was discussed and agreed at Negotiations. The employment by MLG of these two accountants and the
effective operationalization of PA U on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA are conditions of
Effectiveness.
SMs: With respect to the six new SMs, an extensive program of support is planned. This support would
be delivered with the assistance of MLG (CBU), and under Implementation Agreements to be entered
between MLG and the SMs.
The execution of these Implementation Agreements by MLG and each of the SMs is a condition of
disbursement on the MLG Capacity Building Component
4.2 Project management:
As indicated in Section C.4 and E.4 above, there are two main implementing agencies: MPW and MLG.
(PWA has an important implementing role with respect to the Water and Sanitation component but this
component is relatively small -- about 12% of total project costs).
MPW is responsible for some 78% of total project cost and would thus have the main responsibility for
project management. While it has a large technical department, MPW lacks adequate management
systems. Thus sub-project supervision would mainly be contracted out to private consulting firms on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA. At the same time, the project would support efforts to develop
adequate managerial systems within MPW with the help of private consultants.
MLG would be directly responsible for managing about 10% of total project costs -- mainly capacity
building. This would be done using managerial capacity already being built up under MIDP-1. In addition
to the above, because of its experience developed under MIDP-1 and B2000, AEG would be responsible
for overall project monitoring accounting and reporting. This would be undertaken by the PAU. While
PAU has had some experience in discharging responsibilities similar to the above under B2000, it is still
relatively weak. Thus funding would be provided under the project to employ consultants to help MLG
further develop PAU's capacity.
The task of overall coordination has been allotted to MLG instead of MPW because this capacity is already being developed
at MLG under MIDP-1 and B2000. MPW, on the other hand, is a relative new comer and its systems are un-tested. However,
as MPW gains capacity it is expected to take on an increasing share of this task.
Disbursement Special Accounts (SAs): Three SAs would be established under the project, one for each
implementing agency, with deposit limits as follows:
Agency                            Account           Deposit Limits
* MPW                              SA-1                $0.5m
* PWA                              SA-2                $0.05m
* MLG                              SA-3                $0.1m
- 20 -



(For further details see Organogram and Responsibility Matrix in Annex 12. See also discussion on
disbursement in Annex 6.)
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no significant procurement issues. The Procurement Plan is presented in Annex 6. The
Procurement A uditfor MPW, the main Implementing Agency, has been placed on the Project File.
4.4 Financial management issues:
For IDA-financed projects currently being implemented by MLG and PWA (i.e., SAWSIP) annual audit
reports are received on time and there is no outstanding audit reports under any of those projects; equally,
auditing performance under those projects is satisfactory. This is MPW first IDA-financed project;
however, given the adequate system in place and past record, audit reports are expected to be received on
time.
The main risk identified in the financial management was: (i) non-compliance with hiring of required staff
for the PAU on time, a matter which may delay the project effectiveness; and (ii) insufficient cooperation
by MPW and PWA with MLG for consolidation of project accounts. Both risks are considered as
manageable and mitigation measures impeded in the project FM Action Plan and close monitoring
following Board approval and during project implementation as part of supervision.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed project supports environmental improvements through rehabilitation of roads and water
supply systems in the West Bank and Gaza. Potential adverse environmental impacts have been
summarized in Table 1 of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) (see Annex 16). These risks can be
effectively anticipated in advance of project implementation and addressed by direct mitigation activities in
the design, planning and construction process. Since most of the investment activities to be supported by
the proposed Project deal with rehabilitation/improvements of existing infrastructure, and since the projects
do not involve issues such as land acquisition or resettlement, the project is rated a category "B" in
accordance with World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (January 1998) and requires the preparation and
implementation of an Environmental Management Plan.
A rapid environmental audit was conducted on a sample of projects implemented under MIDP-1. The
findings showed that for the most part, the projects contributed to positive environmental impacts. The
positive impacts with regard to road rehabilitation included the following: road and sidewalk projects
reduced amount of dust, increased road safety, drainage has been improved, all municipal roads
rehabilitation included (where appropriate) installation of sewers and street lightning, and most obstacles
have been removed from the public right of way. Tree planting especially in the Gaza municipality will
rapidly improve the quality of life in the urban areas. Nevertheless, the audit also identified areas needing
improvements. In various locations garbage containers are blocking part of the road, traffic signs are not
adequate, considering the increase in vehicular speeds after road have been rehabilitated. Main pedestrian
crossings, especially near schools and cross roads need to be made safe. The quality of paint used for road
marks is often inferior. Semi urban and rural roads shoulders could be planted with trees which will
strengthen the shoulders and have a general positive environmental impact. It was noted that the road
maintenance program needs a stronger emphasis on environmental issues, in particular with respect to road
- 21 -



cleaning. More attention is needed in design and construction of shoulders outside the cities. On various
location shoulders were too narrow or blocked. Though the improvement of drainage has been a major
focus of attention of MIDP-1, its importance can not be underestimated and will need special attention due
to the topography, especially in the West Bank. Random garbage disposal is the most frequently recorded
environmental problem associated with the roads.
The EMP has been prepared to integrate environmental concerns into the design and implementation of the
proposed MIDP-2 Project. It would support: a) site-specific environmental screening of road rehabilitation
and water network projects; b) training staff/contractors involved in Project implementation; c) monitoring
and evaluation of mitigation measures identified during site-specific reviews; d) involvement of the public
in monitoring environmental impact during and after road construction, through the distribution of a
complaint form to municipalities and village councils; e) and perfonnance of Environmental Assessment for
the water projects. All activities related to the EMP will be closely coordinated with Ministry of
Environmental Affairs (MEnA), MPW and PWA.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP is adequate and has been included in full as Annex 16. See comment above.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
See EMP at Annex 16.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders were consulted through focus group discussion, semi-structured interviews and observation
technique.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
An Environmental Monitoring Unit (EMU) is to be established at MPW. This unit will ensure that the
recommended mitigation measures are taken on a timely and effective basis. The key indicators are: 1)
establishment of the unit within 2 months of project effectiveness; 2) the preparation of guidelines for
contractors within 6 months of project effectiveness; and 3) the completion of workshops with contractors
by the end of year 1. These indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
1) Community involvement in project identification and at the local level. 2) Responsiveness of
municipalities to citizen concerns.
Roads: A detailed social assessment of the rehabilitation and improvement was not deemed necessary since
about 70% of the project cost is allocated to existing regional roads serving many different communities,
and the focus is on rehabilitation and maintenance. Plus, the Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs)
for ERP-1 and ERP-2 have recently been completed, and during the review of these projects extensive
- 22 -



discussions were held with stakeholders in the municipalities and villages, including the convening of a
stakeholder workshop. A short video including detailed interviews with beneficiaries and potential
beneficiaries was also made. In general, the social impacts have been highly positive. The lessons from
these two recently completed projects (not repeated here, but see Section D.3) provided a solid basis for the
design of MIDP-2. Beneficiary assessment has now become a standard part of project design and
monitoring in WBG and this would be supported under the project.
Water and Sanitation: With respect to the Water and Sanitation component, as noted earlier the concerned
communities have been consulted and Social Assessment has been done. The findings have been very
positive. However, they indicate a need for closer consultation between the implementing agency and the
communities at an earlier stage in the project cycle. A summary of the Social Assessment is presented in
Annex 15. Current indications are that there may be some changes in the final list of sub-projects prior to
implementation -- due mainly to uncertainties with Israeli permits and negotiations with other donors,
notably USAID. If there should be such a change, social assessment would be undertaken of the concerned
communities prior to final selection and implementation.
During final PAD preparation the list of sub-projects was modified by PWA and the list seems subject to further change.
The current assessment only covers 2 of the four currently proposed projects. The other having been shifted to other donors by
PWA. The new projects are currently under review. Indications are that their social impacts will be similarly positive.
MLG Capacity Building: With respect to the MLG capacity building component, the SM sub-component
in particular requires extensive community consultation as part of the assessment of service delivery and
the preparation of the 3-year investment/development plan for each SM. From the feedback currently being
obtained under MIDP-1, community consultations have been very effective, social impact of this
component has been quite positive.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The regional road improvement and maintenance component does not easily lend itself to a participatory
approach. However, all the key Govenument Ministries and agencies have been consulted, and a workshop
was held in November 1999 to review this component. One of the main concerns of this workshop was the
relative focus on capacity building and infrastructure. The predominant view was that relatively less
money should go to capacity building. However, after an extensive review of the longer term implications
of the neglect of capacity building the focus of the project remained almost unchanged.
With respect to the MLG capacity building component, numerous workshops have been held with the
proposed SMs. In fact, every effort has been made over the last 9-12 months to include them in all
significant discussion under MIDP-1 and B2000. This participation will intensify as the component
develops.
A summary of the participatory framework is presented below:
Party                                 Identification/Preparation  Implementation    Operation
Infrastructure
* Roads
MPW                                        E                 E               E
MLG                                       CL                 CL             CL
MOPIC                                      C                 C               C
MOT                                        C                 C               C
MOF                                        C                 C               C
- 23 -



Other Beneficiary/ Community Groups      CL/N               CL/N            CL/N
* Water & Sanitation
PWA                                        E                  E              E
MLG                                       CL                  CL             CL
MOPIC                                      C
MOF                                        C
Municipalities & Villages                 CL/N               CL/N           CL/N
Other Beneficiary/ Community Groups      CL/N                CLIN           CL/N
* Capacity Building
MPW                                        E                  E              E
MOPIC                                      C                  C              C
MOT                                        C                  C              C
MOF                                        C                  C              C
Other Beneficiary/ Community Groups       CL/N               CL/N           CL/N
* MLG Capacity Building
MLG                                        E                  E               E
SMs                                      CL/N                CL/N           CL/N
Other Beneficiary/ Community Groups       CL/N               CL/N           CL/N
Notes: E=Execute; C=Consult; CL=Collaborate; N=Notify. (See also Section E5).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not Applicable.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not Applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not Applicable.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
a fi 0g Rld=
O Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              l Yes L No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)         O               Yes Z No
B Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.362                                       O Yes Z No
B Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         O Yes Z No
B Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     El Yes X No
O Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      B Yes 1 No
B Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                El Yes Z No
B Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 J Yes Z No
B Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      B Yes Z No
B Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            Bl Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An EMP has been prepared, and an environmental monitoring unit is to be established in MPW, the key
Implementing Agency.
- 24 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The reformns being developed and implemented under MIDP-1 (See Section 1) provides the framework for
this project. To the extent that these reforms are successfully implemented, the sustainability of MIDP-2 is
assured. The main risks are associated with failure of MLG and MOF to implement the MIDP-1 reforms
noted above, and the SMs failure to implement the reforms proposed in this project. Other risks are largely
implementation risks associated with lack of capacity at MLG and MPW and political turnoil-all very
real. Worthy of note in this context is the fact that the project accounting and financial management and
reporting capability of MLG (PAU), while steadily increasing, still requires further development. This
further development should be seen as part of the capacity building role of the project. Technical
Assistance is being provided to under the project to improve MLG's capacity to effectively play its part.
(Risk mitigation measures are noted in the table below.)
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk tin                Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Inability of MLG and MOF to prepare      S         Provide TA, close supervision and include dated
and monitor projects on a timely basis.               covenants.
2. Delays due to border closures could      M         Allow sufficient "slack" in construction program
significantly affect timely completion of             and stockpile key construction materials.
sub-projects.
From Components to Outputs
1. Failure by MLG and SMs to devote         S         Deepen the dialogue with MLG; provide TA;
sufficient time and resources to reform               undertake close supervision; and include dated
measures.                                             covenants.
2. Insufficient financial and managerial    S         Provide TA, a framework for reform, training
capacity at MLG and MPW.                              and operational support.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no controversial aspects.
- 25 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Negotiations: The following were discussed and agreed at Negotiations:
1. The effective operationalization of CBU and PAU;
2. The letter of Road Maintenance Policy, including the dated actions to be undertaken by MPW;
3. The draft Implementation Agreements;
4. The detailed Project Implementation Plan, including potential sub-project changes;
5. The monitoring indicators; and
6. The detailed arrangements for financial management, monitoring, reporting and auditing.
Board: None.
Effectiveness: The following are conditions:
1. The employment by MLG of: a) two accountants for the PAU; or b) a competent professional
accounting firm to undertake the responsibilities of the PAU;
9/
2. The effective operationalization  by MLG of the PAU on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA; and
3. The appointment of project auditors on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
In this context effective operationalization means that staffing, systems, procedures and logistics support are in place, have
been tested and are ready to be utilized for project management, monitoring, reporting, accounting and auditing.
Disbursement: The following are conditions:
1. On the MLG Capacity Building Component only:
a) The employment by MLG of: (i) Director; (ii) Finance Expert; and (iii) Management Expert for
the CBU;
b) The effective operationalization by MLG of the CBU;
c) Execution by MLG of the Implementation Agreements with each of the six SMs on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA; and
2. On each PWA sub-project: The completion of an Environmental Assessment acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
There are no other conditions. However, the undertakings given by MPW in its "Letter of Road
Maintenance Policy" are an important part of MPW's commitments under the project (see Annex 14).
-26 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1l 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
iU 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
J ingsley 0. Robotham     -Ja-h-Claude Villiard         gePa 
/Team Leader                 Sector ManagerlDirmctor    zountry M6nager[Director
-27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
iey P5rform,d;4,_nce  77  
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Developing an environment   More efficient, reliable and    Annual statistical surveys by  Continued Bank's program of
conducive to private sector   widespread infrastructural    Palestine Bureau of Statistics  support to the Peace Process;
activity.                 services; increasing private   (PBS); on-ground. Bank  favorable political climate.
sect. invest. in provision of   supervision and quarterly
goods and services, incl. LG   reports.
services.
Setting the stage for the  Increasing LG financial                              The leadership in the PNA,
emergence of self governing   autonomy and capacity;                            MPW, PWA, MLG and MOF
institutions on a sustainable  increase of LG invest.                           are serious about municipal
economic basis.           planning and capacity;                                and central govt. reform and
increasing decentralization of                       decentralization.
LG service delivery.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Within the already established
MIDP- I framework, to
continue to help:'
Improved municipal        Reduced transportation costs; Annual statistical surveys by  MPW, PWA and MLG able
infrastructure service coverage increased km of main and  Palestine Bureau of Statistics  to plan and oversee
and quality; increased    villages access rd. network in  (PBS); on-ground. Bank  implementation effectively;
accessibility. Improved   good condition; reduced water supervision and quarterly    recurrent political crises do
environment for private   supply costs; increase in  reports.                   not suppress economic
investment.               period (hrs/day) of reliable                          activity.
supply.
Build municipal and central  Increased LG revenue and cost                      The leadership in the SMs,
governmental capacity; and   recovery; Incr.                                    MPW, MLG and MOF take
reform and strengthen     decentralization and                                  their MIDP- 1 and current
municipal systems.        corporatization of services                           project responsibilities
provision and deliv.;                                seriously, and devote adequate
Improved maintenance                                 resources to project.
programming at central
(MPW) and local levels
(SMs).
-28 -



Key Perod1ac
HI4archy of Objeciees           inoqcator          Monitoring A Evaluation    Critin   Assumptlos
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Improved Infrastructure and   Roads: 1) Incr. in % of  On-ground. Bank supervision MPW and MLG able to plan
services regional roads   regional road network in    and quarterly reports;  and oversee implementation
network; water supply,    good condition; 2) Km of    periodic special surveys;  effectively; recurrent political
drainage and sanitation   main, access and internal                           crises do not suppress
services;                 roads rehabilitated; and/or 3)                      economic activity.
maintained annually: yr 2: 50
(km); yr 3: 90 (km); 4) yr 4:
126 (kIn);
Water & Sanitation: 1) km of
water pipes laid ann.yr 2: 10
(km); 2) yr 3: 25 (km); 3) yr
4: 44.7 (km);
Increased central Gov.    MPW: A. 1) Establishment of                         The leadership in MPW take
capacity: MPW capacity to   capable and well staffed road                     their responsibilities seriously,
manage and maintain the road maintenance programming,                         and devote adequate resources
network under its jurisdiction, management and monitoring                     to project.
including Enviromnental   units/departments in MPW by
Management;               end yr 3; 2) timely preparation
of realistic and sustainable
annual road maintenance by
MPW, by end yr 3; 3) percent
of primary & secondary road
network for which a long-term
maintenance program has
been developed: endyr 3: 50
(%); yr 4: 100 (%); 4) percent
of routine & periodic
maintenance on the primary &
secondary road network done
by contract: by endyr 3: 60-70
(%); end yr 4: 80-85 (%);
B. 1) Establishment of an
Environmental Monitoring
Unit by MPW within 2
months of Effectiveness; 2)
Preparation of environmental
Guidelines for contractors
within 6 months of
Effectiveness; and 3)
Completion of training
workshop for MPW
contractors by the end of year
- 29 -



Improved municipal capacity: SMs: 1) Installation of                                The leadership in MLG and
SM systems; increased SM    modem, computerized,                                   the SMs, take their
revenue mobilization and cost accrual-based accounting                             responsibilities seriously,
recovery; improved         systems by end yr 3; 2)                                  build a constituency for
investment programming;    preparation of realistic and                             reform, and devote adequate
Incr. efficiency of services    sustainable annual                                  resources to project.
provision and deliv.;      infrastructure investment
improved invest.            programs by end yr 3; 3)
Programming.                annual % increase in cost
recovery on municipal services
by end yr 3; 4)beginning of
corporatization of key services
(water, elec. sanitation) by end
yr 3.
-30 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
A. Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and
Improvement:
Rehabilitation and        US$1 8.1m; total;         Bank supervision and      Cofmancing available to
improvement of regional road IDA:US$2.8m.           disbursement reports.     MPW; MLG and MPW able to
network, including essential                                                  manage procurement,
drainage, sewage and water                                                    disbursement and accounting
supply.                                                                       processes effectively.
Rehabilitation and        US$3.1m total;                                      Cofinancing available to
improvement of village and   IDA: US$0.7m.                                    PWA; MLG and MPW able
municipal water supply and                                                    manage disbursement and
sewerage networks.                                                            accounting process effectively.
B. Capacity building support
to:
MPW for developing and    US$1 .9m total;                                     MLG and MPW able manage
initiating systematic road    IDA: US$1.6m.                                   disbursement and accounting
maintenance program, and                                                      process effectively.
environmental monitoring.
MLG and SMs for continued  US$2.5m total;                                    MNG and MPW able to
institutional reform;     IDA: US$2.1m.                                       manage disbursement and
improving SM investment and                                                   accounting process effectively.
development programming;
improving SM revenue
mobilization, management
and service delivery.
C. Incremental operating  US$0.4m total;                                      MLG able manage
expense support to:                                                           disbursement and accounting
process effectively.
MPW                       US$0.Im total;
IDA: US$0.lm.
MLG                       US$0.3m total;
IDA: US$0.2m.
- 31 -



Annex 2: Project Description
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
The proposed project has two main components and a supporting component as follows:
*   Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement (US$21.20m - 82% of totalproject cost);
* Capacity Building Support (US$4.40m - 17% of total project cost); and
*   Incremental Operating Expense Support (Recurrent Costs) (US$0.40m - 1% of total project cost)
Each component is briefly summarized below. A description of the key sub-projects is also provided
below.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$21.20 million
L Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement
This component supports physical improvement rehabilitation works and includes two sub-components.
These are described below. Both sub-components include technical assistance for design and supervision of
works.
I. (A) Rehabilitation and Improvement of the Regional Road Network (US$18.1m, 70% of total
project cost): This component would help improve high priority sections of the regional road network in the
West Bank and Gaza. This regional network serves villages and municipalities, and is to be distinguished
from the major arterials which are generally not under Palestinian control. It is also to be distinguished
from internal village and municipal roads.
I. (B) Rehabilitation and Improvement of Village and Municipal Water, Waste Water and Sewage
Systems Networks (US$3.1m, 12% of total project cost): This component would help improve existing
high priority systems and networks as well as develop new systems networks.
[Further details on sub-projects are presented below.]
Project Component 2 - US$4.40 million
IH Capacity Building Support
This component supports capacity building in the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Local
Government as summarized below.
II. (A) Road Maintenance Programming (US$1.9m, 7% of total project cost): Support to MPW for:
a) developing and implementing a systematic approach to road maintenance for the sections of the main and
regional road network under Palestinian jurisdiction. This includes: (i) technical assistance and the
employment of consultants to develop and implement a road maintenance management system; (ii) training
for MPW staff; (iii) supporting software; and (iv) supporting hardware including essential equipment
(computers mainly), vehicles, supplies and spares, etc; b) establishing an Environmental Monitoring Unit
(EMU) to prepare guidelines for contractors, train them in good practice and mitigation techniques, and
monitor their performance during construction.
- 32 -



II. (B) Local Government Capacity Building (US$2.5m, 10% of total project cost): This component
has two sub-components as follows: (i) Accounting System Reform; and (ii) SM Investment/Development
Programming.
The Accounting System Reform Sub-component supports the continuation of the work already begun under
MIDP-1 to modernize LG accounting systems throughout WBG. Thus includes: a) the employment of
consultants to help develop and install new accrual-based systems for financial accounting, management
accounting, and the integration of these systems to facilitate analysis, policy-making and planning, billing
and collection, and the development of a citizen data basis; b) training for accounting and system staff of
MLG and municipalities; c) supporting software; d) supporting hardware; and e) essential vehicles,
equipment, supplies and spares.
The SM Investment/Development Programming Sub-component supports the extension of the work also
being undertaken under MIDP- I and B2000 to the six new SMs (Jabalia, Khan Younis (in Gaza)
Tulkarem, Al-Ram, Jericho and Tarqumia (in West Bank)). It includes support for: a) the employment of
consultants to help analyze the operations, financing, structure, needs and future prospects of the SMs, and
the development of a feasible and cost effective 3 year investment/development plan for each SM having
regard to the need to improve local service delivery, recover costs and mobilize local resources; b) training
for SM staff to improve their capacity to plan, manage, finance and maintain LG services and systems; c)
supporting software; and d) supporting hardware; and e) essential vehicles, equipment, supplies and spares.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.40 million
III. Incremental Operating Expense Support.
This component provides essential operating support for MPW and MLG. It is divided into two
sub-components.
HI. (A) Ministry of Public Works (MPW) (US$0.lm): This provides support to MPW for project
implementation including administrative support, monitoring and reporting. It consist of support for: (i)
the employment of consultants; (ii) software, systems and training, essential office equipment (computers,
photocopiers, etc.); and (iii) operating expenses, including: rent, utilities, essential supplies and spares.
II. (B) Ministry of Local Government (MLG) (US$0.3m): This provides support to MLG for project
implementation including administrative support overall project monitoring, accounting, auditing and
reporting. It consists of support for: (i) the employment of consultants to establish an effective project
accounting, monitoring and reporting system; (ii) accounting software and training support; (iii) essential
office equipment (computers, photocopiers, etc.); and (iv) operating expenses, including rent, utilities,
essential supplies and spares.
Description of Infrastructure Sub-Projects (Component 1): Each of the infrastructure sub-projects is
briefly described below.
L (A) (i) Road Projects in the West Bank (US$11.6 million)
1) Northern Entrance to Nablus (US$1.5 million): There are two roads in this project. The first is a 1.0
km dual carriageway that is highly damaged, and the second is a 1.7 km narrow road with a pavement
width of only 3.0 m. The project involves reconstruction of the dual carriageway section, including proper
pedestrian facilities, and provision for water, sewerage and storm drainage, as well as the widening to 6.0
m of the existing single lane road, with 1.0 m shoulders on each side.
-33 -



2) Jenin - Haifa Road (US$2.1 million): The project involves the rehabilitation of pavement and
upgrading of intersections on 10.0 km of this major road that provides a link with Israel. Provision for
water, sewerage and electricity are included, as well as lateral drainage. The project also involves the
installation of traffic control devices, namely pavement markings and traffic signs.
3) Azzun - Masha Road (US$1.1 million): The existing road has a narrow pavement (3.0 m) and no
shoulders. The project involves the rehabilitation and upgrading to a pavement width of 6.0 m, with 1.0 m
shoulders on each side, of 10.0 km section, including earthworks, pavement, drainage systems, markings
and traffic signs, and guardrails and retaining walls, as well as the upgrading of intersections.
4) Sureef - Beit Awwa Road (UJS$3.5 million): This is a regional road with a substandard pavement
width varying between 4.0 and 5.0 m and a heavily damaged pavement. The project includes the
rehabilitation of a section of 30.0 km of that road, including earthworks, pavement, drainage systems,
markings and traffic signs, guardrails and retaining walls, as well as the upgrading of intersections.
5) Nilin - Bordus Road (US$1.5 million): This is a very narrow road, with a carriageway of 3.Om and
heavily damaged pavement and shoulders. The project involves the rehabilitation and upgrading of a
section of 15.0 km connecting many villages, namely Nileen, Budrus, Qibya, Shuqba and Shibtin. The
carriageway will be widened to 6.0m. The work includes rehabilitation of poor pavement sections and
widening of good sections, including earthworks, pavement, drainage systems, markings and traffic signs.
6) Falamia - Qalqalia Road (US$0.7 million): This unpaved rural road, with a carriageway width of 4.5
to 5.0 m connects major towns (Tulkarem and Qalqilia). It is proposed to upgrade a section of 4.0 km to a
paved road with a carriageway of 6.0 m and shoulders on both sides. The works will -include earthworks,
pavement, drainage systems, markings and traffic signs, and guardrails.
7) Sureef - Beit Hummar Road (US$0.6 million): This is a very narrow road, with a carriageway of 3.0
m and heavily damaged pavement and shoulders. The project involves the rehabilitation and upgrading of a
section of 5.4 km between the towns of Sureef and Beit Hummar to a carriageway of 7.0 m, including
earthworks, pavement, drainage systems, markings and traffic signs, and guardrails.
8) Zabda - Barta'a Road (US$0.7 million): This is also a very narrow road, with a carriageway of 3.0 m
and heavily damaged pavement and shoulders where existing. The project involves the rehabilitation and
upgrading of a section of 5.0 km between the villages of Zabda and Barta'a, to a carriageway of 5.0 m,
including earthworks, culverts, pavement, drainage systems, markings and traffic signs.
I. (A) (ii) Road Projects in the Gaza Strip (US$5.3 million)
1) Beit Hanoun - Wadi Gaza Bridge Road (US$2.3 million): This main road in the Gaza Strip
(Highway #4), with heavy traffic, has a 6.0 m carriageway without shoulders, and its pavement is in poor
condition. The project involves the rehabilitation of a 10.0 km section, including the construction of proper
shoulders and the installation of pavement markings and traffic signs.
2) Wadi Gaza Bridge - Rafah Entry Point (US$2.2 million): This is also part of Highway #4, with
heavy traffic. The project involves the rehabilitation of 30.0 out of 60.0 km that are damaged. Its
description is the same as project A.2. 1. above.
- 34 -



3) El Bahar - Soudania Road (US$0.9 million): This major paved road in the city of Gaza is heavily
damaged. The project will rehabilitate a section of 4.0 km, with a carriageway width of 7.0 to 9.0 m, and
2.0 m shoulders on each side, including earthworks, culverts, pavement, drainage systems, and pavement
markings and traffic signs.
I. (A) (iii) Design and Construction Supervision (US$1.2million)
I. (B) Waterworks Projects in the West Bank (US$2.9 million)
I. (B) (i) Works
1) Awarta Water Project (US$1.2 million): Awarta village has no water network. The people of the
village cany water from far areas and also using rain water collected during winter time which implicating
public health problems. The cost of carried water is high (about US$4/mr). The Municipality of Nablus
has agreed to supply the village with water from Oudalah well owned by the Municipality through a 12"
diameter main pipeline passing close to the village. It is estimated that per capita consumption will be
increased from about 20-25 Vc/d to about 60-70 lI/c/d after project implementation. The project involves
construction of a transmission pipeline of 150mm diameter and length of 3.5km and a network of pipes
with diameter and length respectively; 150mm: Ikm, 100mm: 1.5km; 75mm: 3km, and 50mm: 6km. Thus
the total length of network is 15km of pipes. The project also includes construction of a reinforced
concrete on ground tank of 500m capacity and a booster station with a balance tank and a chlorinating
system. This project includes the engineering design and construction of a main pipeline, a water tank and
a water network to serve the village of Awarta, whose 6,000 inhabitants presently have no running water.
2) Bidia Water Project (US$0.5m): Bidia has a very deteriorated water network which was built about 20
years ago. The estimated losses is 40%. The pipes are undersized and do not cope with the existing
demand. New developed area (1000 people) is not served with piped water. People purchase water
(through tanks) about 30,000 m3/year. The estimated cost per m3 though tanks is 15 NIS. Phase II was
submitted for France for finance. Phase II includes a 500 m water tank. The project involves installing of
about 11.5km of pipes of different sizes (200 to 50mm diameter).
3) Kufur Qallil Water Project (US$0.6m): Kufur Qallil village has no water network. The people of the
village carry water from far areas and also using rain water collected during winter time with implicating
public health problems. The cost of carried water is high (about NIS 15/im). The Municipality of Nablus
has agreed to supply the village with water from Oudalah well owned by the Municipality through a 12"
diameter main pipeline passing close to the village. It is estimated that per capita consumption will be
increased from about 20-25 llc/d to about 60-70 VIc/d after project implementation. The project involves
construction of a water network of 150mm, 100, 75mm and 50mm diameter pipes with length of 400m,
650m, 2500m and 4000m respectively. The project also includes construction of a 300m on ground
reinforced concrete tank and a booster station.
4) Faqua 'a Water Network (US$0.6 million): Faqua'a village has no water network. Water is distributed
to the village by tanks with implicating public health problems. Also the people of the village use rain
water collected in cisterns during winter time for domestic purposes which has a high risk of contamination.
The cost of carried water is high (about US$4/mr). PWA has requested from the Israeli to supply the
village with 3OOm /d through Mekkerot. It is estimated that per capita consumption will be increased from
- 35 -



about 20-25 UIc/d to about 60-70 Uc/d after project implementation and the cost of cubic meter to be about
US$0.6. This project includes the construction of a water network and a connection to the Mekkerot outlet
at the border with Israel. Permit from the Israeli authorities has been secured.
L (B) (ii) Design and Construction Supervision (US$0.2 million)
(A summary of projects costs and estimates of ERRs, beneficiaries, employment generation and status of
readiness is presented in the table below.)
- 36 -



Table 1: Component 1, Summary of Sub-Project Quantity, Costs, Rates of Return, Beneficiaries,
Employment Generation and Readiness Status
Description                              Unit   Qua.   Cost   ERR   Benef.   Direct            Status
($m)    %     ('00)   Employ,      of Readiness
(person-
days)
('000)
I.(A) (i) Roads - West Bank
1. Nablus, Northem Entrance               km     2.7    1.5    41       110       15    Ready in 2-3 months
2. Jenin, Haifa Road                      km    10.0    2.1    80        70       20    Ready in 2-3 months
3. Azzun, MashaRoad                       km      10     1.1    35       5        10           Ready
4. Sureef, Beit Awwa Road                 km      30     3.4    56       80       35     Ready in 2-3 months
5. Nilin, Bordus Road                     km      15     1.5    73       15       15    Ready in 2-3 months
6. Falamia, Qalqilia Road                 km      4      0.7    47       35       5      Ready in 2-3 months
7. Sureef, Beit Hummar Road               km      5.4    0.6    28       20       5      Ready in 2-3 months
8. Zabda, Barta'a Road                    km     5.0    0.7    25        15       5            Ready
Sub-total                                 km    82.1   11.6             350      110
I.(A) (ii) Roads- Gaza
1. Beit Hanoun, Wadi Gaza Bridge Road     km      10     2.2    28      35       30            Ready
2. Wadi Gaza Bridge, Rafah Entry Point    km      30     2.2    47       5        30           Ready
3. El Bahar, Soudania Road                km      4      0.9    53       5        15           Ready
Sub-total                                 km      44     5.3             45       75
Sub-total (Roads)                         km   126.1   16.9             395      185
L(A) Ciii) Design & Supervision                   -      1.2             -        -
TOTAL Roads                               kn   126.1   18.1             395      185
I.(B) (i) Water, Waste Water and Sanitation
West Bank Works
1. Awarta Water Project                   km      15     1.2    27       5        10        Ready in 2-3
months
2. Bidia Water Project                    km    11.5    0.5    42        6       7.5           Ready
3. Kufur Qalil Water Project              km     7.5    0.6    27        2        5      Ready in 2-3 months
4. Faqua'a Water Network                  km    10.7    0.6    24        3        7      Ready in 2-3 months
Sub-total (Works)                          km    44.7    2.9             16      29.5
I.(B) (ii) Design and Supervision           -      -     0.2              -        -
TOTAL Water, WasteWater & Sanitation      km    44.7    3.1              16      29.5
TOTAL Component 1                                       21.2            411     214.5
Note: Calculation of Employment Generation is based on the following assumptions:
*   Road Rehabilitation without infrastructure: labor content: 15% of total project cost @ $15 person per day in
West Bank and $10 ppd in Gaza
*   Water pipe laying: labor content: 10% of total project cost ( $15 ppd in West Bank and $10 ppd in Gaza
*   Design & Supervision: labor content: 1.5 - 2% of total project cost @ $40 person per day in West Bank and
$30 ppd in Gaza
*   Totals may not add because of roundings.
*   Costs include contingencies.
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
1. Civil Works:                                                                        0.00
a. Roads                                                  6.30         8.80         15.10
b. Water and Sanitation                                   1.10          1.50         2.60
II. Capacity Building:                                                                 0.00
a. MPW                                                    0.40          1.10         1.50
b. MLG                                                    0.80          1.60         2.40
(a) Accounting Systems Reform
(b) 3-Yr Municipal Investment Plans (6 SMs)
III. Incr. Oper. Expenses:                                 0.30          0.10          0.40
a. MPW                                                                 0.00          0.00
b. MLG                                                                               0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                         8.90        13.10         22.00
Physical Contingencies                                     1.10         1.70          2.80
Price Contingencies                                       0.40          0.80          1.20
Total Project Costs              10.40         15.60        26.00
Total Financing Required               10.40        15.60         26.00
Works                                                        7.40          12.60        20.00
Goods                                                        0.40           0.80         1.20
Services                                                     2.30          2.10          4.40
lncr. Oper. Exp.                                             0.30          0.10          0.40
Total Project Costs     10.40         15.60         26.00
Total Financing Required      10.40         15.60         26.00
(A more ED detailed breakdown is presented in Additional Annex 17).
-38-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Benefits:
Costs:
Net Benefits:
IRR:
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Because of the large number of sub-projects which make up the components on which economic analysis
was performed, it is impractical to present the data in the format of the table above. Instead, the analysis is
summarized in the table and explanation is presented below:
Table 1: Average Economic Rate of Return (Costs in $m)
Project Cost       % of Project Cost      ERR Base Case
Overall MIDP-2                              26.0                 100%
Cost of Quantifiable Benefits               14.0                 54%                    47%
Roads                                       11.8                 46%                    50%
Nablus entrance                             1.0                                         41%
Jenin-Haifa                                 1.4                                         80%
Azzun-Masha                                 0.8                                         35%
Sureef-Beit Awwa                            2.4                                        56%
Nilin-Shuqba                                1.0                                         73%
Falamia-Qalqilia                            0.5                                         47%
Beit Hummar-Sureef                          0.4                                         28%
Zabda-Barta'a                               0.5                                        25%
Beit Hanoun-Wadi Gaza Bridge                1.6                                         28%
- 39 -



To Rafah Entry                              1.5                                        47%
El Badar-Soudania                           0.6                                        53%
Water                                       2.1                 8.3%                  28.9%
Bidia                                       0.4                                        42%
Kufur Qallil                                0.5                                        27%
Faqua'a                                     0.5                                        24%
Awarta                                      0.8                                        27%
1/ Total cost includes contingencies and taxes.
Table 1 above presents the results of the analysis of the economic rate of return of the elements of the
project with quantifiable benefits. These elements, the roads and water supply investments, constitute
about two thirds of the total base project costs (three quarters of total project cost, mainly prices and
quantity contingencies) and provide a high - 46 percent - average internal rate of return. In addition, the
sensitivity analyses indicate that these rates of return are quite robust. An analysis of the switching values
showed that the worst case with regard to roads (Beit Hanoun - Wadi Gaza), initial investment costs would
have to increase by 140 percent to generate a null net present value (NPV), and expected benefits would
have to be reduced by 25 percent to produce the same result. Similarly, in reference to water, the worse
case scenario (Faqua'a), reducing economic benefits by 10 percent and simultaneously increasing costs by
10 percent would nevertheless result in a 18 percent rate of return, well above the threshold rate of 12
percent. These analyses were based on standard Bank methodology. Details are in the project files.
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
-40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Years Ending
Year 1  | Year2  I Year3  I Year4  | Year5  I Year6  |Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investrnent Costs          2.1        6.6       10.7        5.2        1.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          2.2        6.7       10.8        5.3        1.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              2.2        6.7       10.8        5.3        1.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   1.3        2.5        2.7        1.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.4        1.1        1.9        0.9       0.1       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.4       1.1         1.9       0.9        0.1       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.5        3.1        6.2        3.4        0.9      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      2.2        6.7       10.8       5.3        1.0       0.0        0.0
-                                                             .
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5  |Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
The project would become effective in July 2000 and close on December 2004. IDA disbursements should be
completed by end June 2004.
-41-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Procurement
The Credit would finance selected activities requiring the procurement of: (a) works, i.e., the construction
or rehabilitation of roads and water; (b) goods, including computers, telecommunications, office equipment,
vehicles and maintenance equipment for sub-projects; (c) consultancy services for studies, training and
institutional reforms  sub-projects; and (d) incremental operating expenses for MPW  and MLG.
Procurement under the Credit would be carried out in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for "Procurement
under IBRD Loans and Credits", January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999; "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers". January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999. IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for
all procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and, with modifications acceptable to IDA,
in Arabic language, also for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Simplified documents would be
prepared for use under the Credit and apply to National and International Shopping (NS/IS), relatively
low-value works contracts and low-value consulting contracts. The components not financed by IDA
would be procured in accordance with PA regulations or the guidelines of cofmancing institutions. A
General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be advertised in "United Nations Development Business"
(UNDB) not less than eight weeks prior to the publication of the first Specific Procurement Notice (SPN)
and bidders who have expressed an interest would be notified directly by MPW, PWA and/or MLG.
Works: Taking into account the nature of construction, state of the sub-project preparation and the goal of
fostering the development of the emerging local construction industry, several bid packages would be
prepared according to the list of the sub-projects shown in Annex 2. Bid packages with an estimated
contract value above US$3.Om equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures and documents and
advertisements in UNDB and in local newspapers. (With the exception of those works requiring special
construction expertise, contracts of less than US$3.0nm are not expected to attract International Bidders).
Bid evaluations would be submitted on IDA's Standard Bid Evaluation Form: "Procurement of Goods and
Works" - April 1996. Bid packages with an estimated contract value above US$100,000 equivalent, up to
an aggregate amount of approximately US$2.9m equivalent, would be procured using NCB procedures and
documents and advertisements in at least two local newspapers. NCB contracts would be open to bidding
by eligible foreign bidders if they wish to participate. Contracts below an estimated value of US$100,000
equivalent, would be procured using simplified NCB procedures. It would require: (i) advertisements in a
local newspaper and announcements posted in a public place, (ii) simplified bidding documents and
evaluation procedures agreed with IDA, (iii) public bid openings, (iv) and contract awards to the lowest
evaluated bidder. Pre-qualification would be necessary for all contracts procured under ICB and all
contracts above US$1.0m equivalent procured under NCB procedures. For contracts below US$1.0m
equivalent procured under NCB post-qualification will be used. An open pre-qualification process and
explicit qualification criteria would be used. Subject to prior agreement with IDA in each case and
practical considerations, works below an estimated value of US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.1m equivalent may occasionally be implemented, instead, by obtaining quotations from at least three
contractors available in the area. If such contractors are not available, direct contracting with the nearest
available source may be undertaken with prior consent of IDA. Force account construction through PA
personnel and equipment would be used in case where competitive bidding is not feasible, but only with
IDA's prior agreement.
-42 -



Goods: To the possible extent, the procurement of goods would be carried out through bid packages
comprising several lots of similar items. Bid packages with an estimated contract value above US$500,000
equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures and documents, and advertisements in UNDB and in
local newspapers. Bidders would be subject to post-qualification in accordance with IDA's SBD for
"Procurement of Goods" January 1995. Bid evaluations would be submitted on IDA's Standard Bid
Evaluation Form "Procurement of Goods and Works" - April 1996. Bid packages with an estimated
contract value above US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of approximately US$1.0m equivalent,
would be procured using NCB procedures and documents and advertisements in at least two local
newspapers. The procurement of goods and supplies below an estimated value of US$50,000 per contract
or purchase order, up to an aggregate amount of approximately of US$300,000 equivalent, would follow
NS/IS procedures, using requests for quotations which would indicate the description, quantity and
required delivery time of the procured goods. In case of National Shopping, at least three quotations would
be solicited from local suppliers, when these goods are readily available locally at competitive prices; in
case of Intemational Shopping, quotations would be solicited from at least three intemational suppliers in
two different countries. The evaluation of quotations would follow procedures agreed with IDA.
Incidental goods and supplies below a cost of US$5,000 per purchase, up to an aggregate amount of
approximately US$100,000 equivalent would be purchased directly from the nearest available source or, if
available, through the PA Govemment Supply Catalogue maintained by MOF. Under ICB procedures,
bids offering goods manufactured in West Bank/Gaza would be granted a margin of preference of 15%. In
the comparison of bids to establish eligibility for Domestic Preference, the provisions of Appendix 2 of
IDA's Procurement Guidelines would be followed.
Services: For consultants' contracts equal to/or above an estimated value of US$100,000 equivalent, the
selection method would be Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). For consultancies below estimated
contract value of US$100,000 equivalent, the selection method would be Quality-Based- Selection (QBS) or
Least-Cost Selection (LCS) or Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB) or Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS). Consultants' Qualification-Based (CQ) and Single-Source Selection (SS) methods would be used
for all specialized, short-term or low-cost contracts less than US$50,000 with consultants. Furthermore,
all consultancies with an estimated contract value above US$200,000, request for interest would be
advertised in UNDB and in local newspapers.
Prior Review: The first three contracts in each category and each procurement method (works, goods and
services), irrespective of the estimated contract value, would be subject to IDA's prior review, in
accordance with the applicable guidelines. Thereafter, all procurement of works and goods, which is
subject to ICB procedures, would be subject to IDA's prior review. Also, any contract for works with an
estimated contract value above US$500,000 equivalent and any contract for goods with an estimated
contract value above US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review. All direct
contracting, force account, IS/NS and direct purchase would be subject to IDA's prior review. Contracts
with individual consultants in excess of US$50,000 equivalent and with consulting firms in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent, as well as all single-source contracts, and first RFP of each consultancy contract
would be subject to prior review. The prior review process would cover about 80% of total works goods
and services contracts, which would be reasonably achievable under the circumstances. All other contracts
would be subject to post-review on a random basis during supervision missions and procurement audits.
Procurement Responsibilities: The MPW would be responsible for all procurement activities related to
Components "1(a)" (Infrastructure Rehabilitation Works) and "2(a)" (MPW Capacity Building) and 3(a)
(MPW Incremental Operating Expenses). PWA would be responsible for all procurement under
component "1(b)" (water, wastewater and sanitation). MLG's Capacity Building Unit (CBU) would be
-43 -



responsible for all procurement activities related to Components "2(b)" (MLG Capacity Building Support)
and "3(b)" (MLG Incremental Operating Expenses) of the Project. The initial Procurement Plan is shown
in Table [BI]. It would be updated periodically and jointly by MPW, PWA and MLG who would also
prepare the standard bidding documents to be used for all sub-projects.  Each unit would retain
responsibilities for advertising bids, issuing bidding documents, opening and evaluating bids and awarding
contracts with regard to its assigned components. The procurement skills of MPW, PWA and MLG staff
would be upgraded through a training program.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           2.90           0.10           16.80         19.80
(0.00)         (2.40)         (0. 1 0)      (0.00)         (2.50)
2. Goods                            0.00            1.00          0.40           0.00           1.40
(0.00)         (0.80)         (0.40)         (0 00)        (1.20)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           4.00           0.40           4.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (3.50)         (0.00)        (3.50)
4. Incr. Oper. Expenses             0.00           0.00           0.40           0.00           0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)                        (0.00)        (0.30)
Total                            0.00           3.90           4.90           17.20         26.00
(0.00)         (3.20)         (4.30)         (0.00)        (7.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Other (Specify). All costs include
contingencies
X Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national and international shopping, direct
contracting, force account, simplified NCB, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-44 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
.,.orft- Value                                  C6ntr40s $I' *CttO
ThrsbQld~  f      Procisovemnlt            pirRv
hx~eiidtuegf (>t~r         (U$$ thoss).  I             L :hoX
1. Works                       >= 3000                     ICB                      All
>=100                    NCB              First three packages & all
subsequent contracts larger
than US$0.5m
< 100               NCB/Simplified          First three packages
<= 50            Direct Contracting/Force          All
Account
2. Goods                        >= 500                     ICB                      All
> 50                    NCB              First three packages & all
subsequent contracts larger
than US$0.1m
< 50                    NS/IS                     All
< 5                Direct Purchase                All
3. Services                     >= 100                    QCBS                      All
> or < 50          QBSALCS/FBS/QCBS   First RFP and then all TOR
& Cost estimate
_________________   <50                     CQ/SS                      All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$6.00m (IDA)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
of MIDP-2 procurement activities that are subject to post review. This should not be confused with the
proposed procurement audit on a random basis, for MIDP-1 to be performed in conjunction with a
financial audit by a qualified accounting firm.
-45 -



Table B1- Procurement Plan (First Year)
Est.                              Estimated Schedule (month/year) |
# of    Cost   Proc.    Review
Description       Type   slices/   (US$  Method (Advance/Pr
items/  '000)            ior/Post)
sub-
packages
Pre-  Invite.   Bid   Contract Contract
Wqua. to Bid  Opening  Award   Comp.
Works
a) Roads
* Design package I       CF       5       0.01   QCBS       Prior      -    8/00    9/00    10/00    1/01
(WB)
* Azzun-Masha Road       CW       2        1.1    NCB       Prior     8/00  9/00    10/00    11/00   12/01
*  Sureef-Beit Umar Road  CW       1      0.6    NCB        Prior      -    8/00    9100    10/00    9/01
* Al Bahar-Sudania Road  CW       1       0.9    NCB        Prior      -    8/00    9/00    10/00    7/01
b) Water
*  Kufur Qallil Water    CW        1      0.5    NCB        Prior      -    8/00    9/00    10/00    8/01
Project__ _ _                                                                   _ _ _ _  __ _ _   _ _ _ _
Capacity Building
* 3 Year investment Plan  CF      2       0.2    CQ/        Prior     8/00  12/00    2/01    3/01    12/01
(1 package)                                   QCBS
* Roads Maint. Mgt. Sys.  CF      I       0.8   QCBS        Prior     8/00  9/00    11/00    12/00    2/03
* CW for civil works, CF for consulting firns.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-46 -



Disbursement
Allocation of other (specify) proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The project funds are expected to be disbursed over a period of four years beginning July 1, 2000 and end
ing June 30, 2004. The closing date for the credit would be December 31, 2004. It is estimated that MPW
would be able to disburse at average of US$0.08m per month during the first year of the project. All IDA
funded disbursements towards civil works are expected to be completed within two years from day of
project effectiveness.
SpecialAccounts: To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, MPW, PWA and MLG would
establish a Special Account under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. An initial deposit of the US$
0.5m will be made into MPW Special Account SA-1); US$0.05m into the PWA special account (SA-2);
and US$0. Im into the MLG Special Account (SA-3) from the IDA credit. MPW, PWA and MLG would
manage their respective SAs and submit replenishment applications on a monthly basis.
Operating Expenses: These project-related expenses would include salaries, office rent, utilities, vehicle
operating costs, stationery, consumables, printing, translation services, publications, audit fees, Bank
charges, communication services and travel expenses. Repair and replacement costs for office equipment
and vehicles would also be covered.
Table C: Allocation of Other (Specify) Proceeds
1. Works                                                                  85%
a) MPW                                    2.00                           it
b) PWA                                    0.50                           it
2. Goods including Software                                     100% of foreign expenditures
and 85% of local expenditures
a) MPW                                    0.60
b) MLG                                    0.60
3. Consultant Services, TA, Studies                             100% of foreign expenditures
and Training                                                   and 85% of local expenditures
a) MPW                                    1.80                           to
b) MLG                                    1.50                           It
4. Consultant Services, PWA                 0.20                100% of foreign expenditures
and 85% of local expenditures
5. Incremental Operating Expenses                                          85%
a) MPW                                    0.10
b) MLG                                    0.20
Total Project Costs                          7.50
Total                                       7.50
-47 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
*   All contracts for works below US$500,000
*   All contracts for goods below US$100,000
*   All consultancy contracts below US$100,000 for Consulting Firms and US$50,000 for Individual
Consultants, except single-source contracts
*   Local training, Seminars and workshops
(Note on Disbursement Percentage for local expenditures: If a contract has been executed "excluding
VAT" then IDA would consider disbursing 100% of eligible expenditures.)
Special account:
As noted above, three SAs are proposed, one for each of the main implementing agency as follows:
Agency  Acct.     Total Budget  IDA Share   Proposed SA              Comment
(US$m)      (US$m)    limit (US$m)
MPW    SA-I          20.1          4.5         0.5       About 3-4 months project expenditure
assuming a 2-3 yr. disb. period
PWA    SA-2          3.1           0.7         0.05
MLG    SA-3           2.8         2.3          0.1
TOTAL        26.0         7.5           -
Annex 6 (a)
Assessment of Financial Management System
The implementing agencies (MLG, MPW and PWA) are already established. Each has a role to play in the
financial management of the project but the key responsibility of overall project financial administration,
including accounting, monitoring, reporting, lies with MLG. Within MLG the PAU has the specific
responsibility. The financial management systems (FMS) of each implementing agency was assessed
according to IDA guidelines (LIH, Annex 2) for the purpose of determining compliance with IDA minimum
requirements OB/PB310.02 and the ability to generate reliable quarterly project management reports
(PMRs). The assessment concluded that the FMS at all agencies are adequate for presenting the Project to
the Board. A note on each implementing agency is presented below. The full FMS assessment report for
each agency has been placed on the project files.
MLG
The Project Accounting Unit (PAU) at MLG will play a key role in the financial management of the project
being the accounting and reporting coordinator with other implementing agencies, MPW and PWA. The
MLG is already participating in the MIDP-1, which includes a technical assistance component to improve
the financial management system at the ministry and a separate Project Accounting Unit (PAU) was
-48 -



established to undertake this responsibility. The PAU is well structured and staffed. It has computerized
accounting system named (Audit) developed by local software company. The system can accommodate
several on-going projects and has good security log-in system. It also has flexible reporting tools which,
with minor modification, allow generation of PMRs and with sitting proper chart of accounts for this
purpose. The system also facilitate proper budgeting as it links budgeting with accounting and shows
movements on budget lines. Budgeting system is in place and is separate from the government budgeting
system. The PAU is adequately staffed after hiring additional two qualified accountants. There are
properly documented accounting procedural manual, clear segregation of duties among all incompatible
functions. Dual check signatory is in place. The FMS at the MLG was assessed by an external consulting
firm. The assessment was conducted according to TOR acceptable to IDA. The assessment had identified
several weaknesses and a remedial action plan was agreed with MLG to ratify these weaknesses. However,
MLG accounting department will not account for or manage any funds for the Project; hence the PAU will
undertake this responsibility. Financial management of the project regarding MLG portion will be done
through PAU only. MLG is subject to auditing from Central Auditing Bureau besides its internal audit
department. The MIDP- 1 is subject to external auditing by qualified auditors acceptable to IDA. MIDP-2
accounts will be audited by private independent auditor acceptable to IDA with TORs acceptable to IDA.
The audit report should be submitted to IDA within six months after fiscal year end, this includes last year
of project implementation. The PAU will be overall coordinator to the Project. PWA and MPW will
submit their quarterly PMRs to PAU for consolidation. PAU will be responsible for the consolidation and
submission of the consolidated reports to IDA. Also, it is MLG responsibility to appoint private auditors
to the Project with terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
PWA
The FMS at the PWA was assessed in 1999 by qualified external consultant with TOR acceptable to IDA
for the on-going project, Southern Area Water and Sanitation Project ("SAWSIP"),- a US$21.0 million
credit. All significant deficiencies identified in the said assessment were ratified by PWA. Separate
computerized accounting system and chart of accounts (COA) are set up for the project to allow automatic
generation of PMiRs. SAWSIP contains legal covenant to submit quarterly PMRs to IDA starting July 1,
2000. During the supervision mission made in April 2000, the financial management specialist assigned to
the project reviewed the progress in the action plan and reviewed the set up of the COA and reporting
capability of the system. It is concluded that the project is able to meet the legal covenant and submit
quarterly PMRs to IDA starting July 1, 2000. The component of PWA in MIDP-2 is relatively small
compared to SAWSIP. To account for MIDP-2 the PWA will set up separate chart of accounts and
separate accounting records within the PWA main accounting department. Generation of PMRs is
available from beginning of the Project. However, PMR will be requested effective July 1. 2001. PMRs
prepared by PWA will be submitted to IDA through PAU after being reviewed and consolidated by PAU.
Also, PAU has supervisory role in the accounting and financial management of the project over PWA (and
MPW) and will be conducting spot checks on the accounts in PWA records related to the Project.
PWA has full time internal auditor, subject to external auditing by the Central Audit Bureau and also,
subject to external auditing by qualified private auditors acceptable to IDA. The TORs for the auditors
appointment for both SAWSIP and PWA in general (being revenue earning entity) are acceptable to IDA.
The annual audit reports for the Special Account, SOE and project accounts will be audited by private
auditor acceptable to IDA, who will be appointed by MLG. The audit reports for the project and the entity
will be submitted not later than six months from end of fiscal year including the last year of the project
implementation. Audit cost for the Special Account and the project accounts will be eligible expenditures.
Audit costs for the entity accounts are the responsibility of PWA and will not be eligible expenditure under
the project. Detailed FMS assessment is included in the Project's permanent files.
-49 -



MPW
MPW will manage 78% of the total project's fund ($20 million). An assessment of the FMS at MPW was
conducted and documented by a financial management specialist and filed in the Project's permanent files.
The assessment concluded that FMS at MLG meets IDA minimum requirements. The accounting system is
semi-automated and in process of full automation. There are up-to-date accounting manual covering
accounting policies and procedures. Budgeting system is basically the government system promulgated by
Ministry of Finance. MPW has developed a separate budgeting system suitable for roads project
management which enable the ministry to better plan and monitor execution of major road maintenance and
construction projects. The new budgeting system is complementary to the governmental budgetary as it
shows cost items by project component and sub-component; also it allows for monitoring physical progress
of the projects. Main strength of the new budgetary system is that it is linked to accounting system which
enables simultaneous reliable comparative reports between budgeted and actual costs for any account or
cost element. Also, MPW has developed efficient internal auditing system as being an integral part of the
accounting cycle and also performing independent verification of transactions. The accounting department
employs eight qualified staff supported by qualified computer staff. It is agreed that separate chart of
accounts will be created and installed in the accounting system to allow automatic generation of PMRs.
The mechanism to set up the chart of accounts is explained and documented by MLG accounting
department. According to our assessment, there will be no need to set up separate PIU to manage the
accounting of the project and the finance department will assume the accounting and reporting
responsibility. Separate Special Account will be opened for the MPW portion at a commercial bank and
will be solely managed by MPW. The MPW will prepare its PMRs and submit them to MLG for
consolidation and submission to IDA. MPW will prepare their own WA and submit them to IDA for fund
transfer to the Special Account. The Project's account and Special Account will be audited annually by
independent private auditor acceptable to IDA with TOR acceptable to IDA. The Auditor will be appointed
by MLG (preferably the same auditor for the project accounts for all implementing agencies). The audit
report should be submitted to IDA within six months after year end. Also, all transactions are subject to
internal auditing and subsequent auditing by the Central Audit Bureau.
Flow of Funds: Each implementing agency will establish its own individual special account at a
commercial bank according to IDA's terms and conditions. Each implementing agency will be responsible
for management of its own Special Account, including preparation of application for withdrawal,
reconciliation of the account to IDA's records, cooperate with IDA's supervision missions and coordinate
with external auditors. There will be no budgetary allocation to the project from the PA as the contribution
of the PA is confined to waiver of VAT from the Project. Disbursement will be on traditional disbursement
method using SOEs and summary sheet with full supporting documents. Each implementing agency will
maintain all supporting documents for year-end auditing and supervision missions reviews. All documents
should be kept for at least one year after the completion of the project.
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes:
* Each implementing agency would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for
expenditures on activities directly managed by that agency.
* Each implementing agency would maintain supporting documentation for expenditures on activities
managed by them. Books of accounts will be maintained on double-entry bookkeeping principles, for
their activities under the project. Each implementing agency would provide a summary statement of
- 50 -



expenditure monthly based on the books of accounts, along with other information and documents, to
enable proper accounting for these expenditures.
* Implementing agencies would maintain separate books and records in respect of transactions for
activities under the project. They should not be commingled with transactions not related to the
project. Project records should be kept in auditable condition all the time.
* Although each implementing agency will performn its own accounting, PAU at MLG will play
supervisory role in the accounting and financial management in the Project. It will be responsible for
accounting coordination and consolidation of quarterly PMRs and submit them to IDA. Also, PAU
will be responsible to appoint auditors for the Project according to TOR acceptable to IDA. Both
MPW and PWA are requested to cooperate with PAU to facilitate this role.
* Expenditures incurred by each implementing agency would be audited by the private independent
auditors (Certified Public Accountants) for the Project accounts. PWA entity accounts would be
audited also.
* This FMS at each implementing agency would be reviewed by supervision missions and be annually
reviewed by the external auditors to ensure consistent and efficient application of the system.
Internal Controls
Current policies and procedures have been already set in all implementing agencies to provide reasonable
assurance of (a) a proper authorization of transactions; (b) access to and use of assets and records; and (c)
separation of custody of cash from authorization and record keeping, and separation of authorization from
record keeping.
Specifically, the financial management system at each implementing agency includes the following internal
control mechanisms:
* Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets
and targets.
*  Adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which would
govern financial management of and accounting for the project (as described earlier). These policies
and procedures are included in the Manual of Financial Accounting Procedures.
* At the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring
standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc. These policies
and procedures are given in the existing Manual of TS and would be reviewed and updated
periodically.
Financial Management Reports
Quarterly: Financial management reports for the project would be generated from the computerized
financial management system at each implementing agency starting January 1, 2001. These reports would
be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details) and would be used for project
management by each implementing agency. The reports would include: (i) a comparison of budgeted and
actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including sources and application of funds (by
- 51 -



components, expenditure categories and Ministry offices), and on physical parameters and unit rates for
selected key items; (ii) expenditures by disbursement categories; and (iii) forecasts for the next 2 quarters.
Formats of the reports are given in the Manual.
Annually: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to IDA. PFS would include:
(i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from various
sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project. This would also include appropriate
schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories, (ii) a Special Account
Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the IDA Credit made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS would be submitted to IDA not later than 6 months after
the end of the Fiscal Year (i.e., not later than June 30 for the fiscal year ended on December 31 of each
year). This is required from every implementing agency.
Auditing Arrangements
Each implementing agency would engage a firm of Certified Public Accountants, who would be the Project
Auditors, would audit the accounts and financial statements of the project. The annual project financial
statements audited by the firm of Certified Public Accountants would be submitted to IDA within 6 months
of the close of the fiscal year. The Terms of Reference and qualifications of the firm of Certified Public
Accountants are included in the Financial Accounting Manual of Procedures and have been reviewed by
IDA. The cost of the audit by the firm of Certified Public Accountants would not be eligible for financing
from the IDA Credit. The Bank's Guidelines for selection of consultants would apply to the engagement of
the firm of Certified Public Accountants.
The audit by the Project Auditor would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all
sources and uses of funds, and expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies); The audit will be
carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The Terns of Reference of the
auditors includes both audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the operation of the financial
management system per se, including review of internal control mechanisms. All sub-area offices would
provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records, and information required by the
auditor for the purposes of the audit. The audit would also cover any cost-based consultancy or other
contracts for which no supporting documentation is provided to the related implementing agency. The
Project Auditor would issue management letter to the implementing agency, to bring to management's
attention any issues, which may be required to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls, and
would also facilitate proper completion of the project implementation.
The Project Auditor would be appointed before the start of the project. The firrn would preferably be
appointed for the duration of the Project. If the auditor rendered unsatisfactory performance, the contract
would be terminated. It is acceptable to have the same audit firm for more than one implementing agency or
even all implementing agencies.
Staffing
Key Professional Staff. Currently, MPW and PWA are fully staffed and ready to assume their
responsibility to run their portion of the project. PAU needs to hire two qualified accountants prior to
negotiation.
- 52 -



Areas for Improvement
At the MPW, the semi-automated financial management system is working properly but the implementation
of the fully computerized accounting system will provide for an efficient, more accurate accounting of
project transactions. Some of the areas of improvement for all implementing agencies, including MPW are:
(i) training of professional staff and the Ministry offices in financial planning and management, operation
of 'system-based' internal controls, financial policies, etc., (ii) training of financial staff in basic computer
operations (spreadsheets, word processors, databases, operation of the computerized financial management
system, etc.); (iii) ensuring better linkages between physical and financial activities, including expanding
the items for which physical data is captured in the financial management system (e.g., number of
terminations, etc); (iv) developing better linkages between physical and financial functions in each
implementing agency, especially since these functions are closely related (on aspects such as internal
controls over projects, etc.); and (v) development and implementation of internal service standards for all
finance and accounting functions. These as well as other improvements would be addressed during project
implementation on a continual basis.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
Financial Management System: The design of the Financial Management System at MPW is expected to
be completed by September 30, 2000. PWA will complete set-up of separate accounting records and chart
of accounts for the project by September 30, 2000.
Appointment of Auditors: Draft Terms of Reference for financial audit of the project have been prepared;
process of recruitment of a firm of Certified Public Accountants as project auditors for the first year will
start on May 15, 2000. The auditors are expected to be appointed by September 30, 2000.
Recruitment of Key Staff. The process for recruitment of two additional key financial staff at PAU will
be completed before negotiation (selection in progress).
Risks
The main risk relating to financial management aspects is the unsatisfactory cooperation between PAU at
MLG and other implementing agencies regarding supervisory role of the PAU at MLG. This risk is
considered as manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these are
highlighted here in view of their potential for adversely affecting project performance. These aspects will
be monitored closely as part of project supervision.
The supervisory role of MLG were overemphasized during negotiation and full cooperation will be
requested from all parties. Also, MLG will be committed to assist other implementing agencies to fulfill
their FMS responsibilities when they seek its assistance.
- 53 -



Action Plan
This is presented below.
Action                           Responsible Entity           Completion Date
1.     Recruit two accounting staff               MLG                        Before Effectiveness
Scheduled for July 1,2000.
2.     Open Special Accounts                       MPW, PWA, MLG              Before Effectiveness
3.     Appoint private auditors                   MPW, PWA, MLG               Before Effectiveness
4.     Upgrade computerized accounting system.    MPW and Consultant          September 30, 2000
5.     Create separate project-specific, accounting  MPW, PWA and PAU         September 30, 2000
records and chart of accounts
6.     Test PMRs using data of 2000 Quarter 4     MPW, PWA, MLG               December 31, 2000
7.      First PMR generation                      MPW, PWA, MLG               July 1, 2001
-54 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Projezt Sch#cttde Planned                                        :tual                     _
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       13
First Bank mission (identification)              02/01/99                     02/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                      02/14/2000                    03/06/2000
Negotations                                      02/21/2000                   05/07/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/01/2000
Prepared by:
Kingsley Robotham
Preparation assistance:
Claude Archambault, Majed El Bayya, Ibrahim Dajani and Khalida Qutob.
Peer Reviewer: Fitz Ford
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
IName                                    Speciality
1. Kingsley Robotham              Principal Urban Planner
2. Claude Archambault             Transport Engineer
3. Majed El-Bayya                 Water & Sanitation Engineer
4. Kanthan Shankar                Environmental Engineer
5. Ibrahim Dajani                 Environmental Engineer
6. Ayman Abu Haija                Financial Management Specialist
7. Hisham Labadi                  Roads Engineer
8. Khalida Qutob                  Program Assistant
9. Terni Michelle Wells           Program Assistant
10. Marie Ange Le                 Operations Analyst
11. Alexandra C. Bezeredi         Board Operations Officer
- 55 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. MIDP- 1, MLG Capacity Building Restructuring Plan.
2. TOR for Road Maintenance Management System Consultancy.
3. TOR for SM Capacity Building Consultancy.
4. Details of Economic Analysis.
5. Financial Management Review.
6. MPW Procurement Audit.
7. MPW: Various documents on road sector issues, work program and MPW organization and staffing.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. SARs: MIDP-1, ERP-1, ERP-2 and B2000
2. ICR's: ERP- l and ERP-2
3. Draft Transport Sector Study
4. MIDP- 1 Capacity Building Component Restructuring Plan
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 56 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
GZ-SF-53985   1999 PLO FOR BENEFIT OF        BETHLEHEM 2000                                    25.00      0.00       0.00      20.75      6.04       0.00
GZ-SF-58684   1999 PALEST                    COMMUNITY DEV. II                                  8.00      0.00       000        6.50      1.50       0.00
GZ-SF-40503   1998 PLOFORTHEBENEFITOF   GAZAINDUSTRIALEST.                                     11.00      0.00       1.00       9.04      2.75       0.00
GZ-SF-47067    1998 TH                       PALESTINIAN NGO PROJ                              14.55      0.00       0.00      10.76      -0.99      1 48
GZ-SF40505   1997 GOVERNMENT                 WATER&SAN.SERV.IGAZA                              25.00      0.00       0.00       7.46      7.09       0.00
GZ-SF-43338    1997 WELFAREASSOCIATION       HOUSING                                           25.00      0.00       0.00      24.95      725        0.00
GZ-SF-47065    1997 PLO (FOR BENEFIT OF      MICROENTERPRISES-IFC                               5.00      0.00       0.00       4.29      2.09       0.79
GZ-SF47110   1997 PALES                      COMMUNITYDEVELOPMNT                               10.00      0.00       0.00       0.32      0.66       0.00
GZ-SF471 11   1997 PALESTINLAN AUTHORITY    LEGAL DEVELOPMENT                                   5.50      0.00       0.00       4.43      3.06       0.00
GZ-SF49708   1997 PECDAR                     PAL.EXPAT.PROF.PROGRAM                             3.00      0.00       0.00       2.85       1.05      0.00
GZ-SF-43339   1996 PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY    MUNICIPAL DEV.                                     40.00      0.00       0.00       9 54      2.86       0.00
PLOIPALESTINIAN
AUTHORrfY
Total:     172.05        0.00        1.00      100.89    33.36       2.27
- 57 -



WEST BANK AND GAZA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1994               APIB                            0.00    0.00    3.73    0.00    0.00    0.00      3.73    0.00
1997               Arab Bank                      0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30       0.00    0.00
1997               ComBank Palestin                0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23      0.00    0.00
1997               Jordan National                 0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80      0.00    0.00
1997               PIECO                           8.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00
1997               SEF Arab Concret                0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.47    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Nabahin                     0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               PTF                             0.00    0.00    11.90    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.38    0.00
1998               PTF-Mgt Co.                     0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.04    0.00
1998               SEF Al-Ayyam                    1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.80    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Pharmacare                 0.41     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.41    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               PMhHC                           0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               PTIC                            8.00    0.00     1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Cold Storage                0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        19.71    7.50   22.18    0.00    3.18    1.33    7.15    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 58 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
WEST BANK AND GAZA: SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
West   M. East   Lower-                                        10/13/9
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Bank   & North   mtddle-
& Gaza     Africa   Income       Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                         24        283      2.285                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               2,060     1.230
GNP (Alas method, USS billions)                         ..       583      2.818
Average anrual growth. 1991-97
Population (%)                                          5.6        2.3       12
Labor force (%)                                         6.3        3.2       13       GNP                              Gross
per    H     K-                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest Year available. 1994-97)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty M% of popelation below natronaf poverty tfine    24
urban population `% oatotatoopulation)                   70         57        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         70        67         69
Infant mortality (pet /O00 live biths)                   28        48         36
Chid malnutrition fSo of children under )                                ..                     Access to safe water
Access to, safe water (% ot popuatlon)                   90         71        84
llltteracy (% o population age 184)                      16        39         19
Gross ptinary enrollment (% of school-age poptlaton)     91         97       111        -      WestBankandGaza
Male                                                   91       102        116              Lower-middle-income group
Femate                                                 92        91        113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS an4 LONG-TERM TRENDS
1985     1905       1996      1997
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                             1.0      3.3        3.4       3,3
Gross domestic investmentGDP                  28.6     3864       34.1      34.1                      Trade
Exports of goods and serviee4/GDP             30.5     17,0       17.5      175 
Gross domestl savings/GbP                    -31,1     -8.0      -17,7     -17,7
Gross fational avings/GOP                      2.5     1S.9       9S.        9.4
Current accountt balancetGOP                 -11.0    .17.65     -24.6     -24,6      Domestic   ,
Interest paymentsiGOP                                                                 Savings        \             Investment
Trotal debtlGOP                                                                       Savng
Total debt service/exports
Present value of debt/GOP
Present value of debt/exports                   ..
Indebtedness
1955.94     1*03     19S6       1997   199S42
(average annal grogwthj
GDP                                   7.3     -5.2      0.-8 -08                         -     West Bank and Gaza
GNP per capita                        1.1    -9.9      -8.2       -3.7        ..               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         2.7    -19,6     14.4       -0.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1985     1995       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   19.7     14.5       16.3      15.9
Industry                                      24.9     26.8       24.4      24.2      20
Construction                                16.9       9.7       9.4        8.8     10
Services                                      55.4     58.6       59.3      60.0      o          _      _ _ _!
Private consumption                          118.2     94.1       95.8      98.4    10  9 2 9      3    94              97
General government consumption                12.9     13.9       22.0      19.4                -GDI           5*GDP
Imports of goods and services                 90.2     61.4       69.3      69.3
(average annual growth)                    1985-94     1995      1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%l
Agriculture                                   13.9     -8.5       11.9      -0.8     4
Manufacturing                                  9.7     31.0      -12.4       4.2
Construction                                   9.2      8.3       -3.8      -4.5    20
Private services                              10.5    -12.7       -8.0       3.0      o - 
Public services                                4.7      3.6       17.9       3.0             92          94         9    97
Private consumption                            4.3     -0.6       10.6       2.1    -20
General government consumption                 7.1    -24.4       56.4     -12.4
Gross domestic investment                      0.2     11.6       -4.5      -0.8    -40
Imports of goods and services                  8.4    -16.9       24.3      -0.8              -     Exports     0  Imports
Gross national product                         5.3     -4.4       -2.6       2.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv fin bold) comDared with its income-orouo averaae. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 59 -



West Bank and Gaza
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              11985     1995       1996      1997      Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                            30
Consumer prices                               289.5     10.1       11.0       7.6     20
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..    12.6        12.3       7.6     1 D
Government finance                                                                         x                                  7
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o            93    94   95   9S   97
Current revenue                                11.0     15.6       20.0      24.7    -10
Current budget balance                          2.0     -2.0       -2.8      -1.1             -G OP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        -0.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1985     1995       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            272       414       450         ..    2,500
n.a.
n.a.                                                                                2.000
Manufactures                                   ..       ..         ..        ..    .500
Total imports (cif)                            668    1,784       2,123
Food
Fuel and energy                                                                     s5:                         _
Capital goods                                                                          o                  94   a _o 9
Export price index (1995=100)                     .91   92   93   94   95  93   97
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..         E. ..                        mExports      U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1985      1995      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  305       558       598       585       0
Imports of goods and services                  750    2,014       2,369     2,317          91              94
Resource balance                              -446   -1,456      -1,770    -1,732
II
Net income                                     227       534       469       632      10
Net current transfers                          108      349        461       276      15                            I I
Current account balance                       -110      -574      -841       -824     20
Financing items (net)                                     5. .. .               .     2
Changes in net reserves                          .30
Memo:
Required reserves with PMA (USS millions)         .      44        184       239
Conversion rate (DEC, locaf/US$)                1.2      3.0        3.2       3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1985     1995       1996      1997
(USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       ..         ..         .
IBRD
IDA                                            ..      23         50       103
Total debt service
IBRD
IDA
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..    441         548       541
Official creditors                             ..      21         27        54
Private creditors                              ..        .
Foreign direct investment                      ..
Portfolio equity                               ..        .
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..      20         85        69
Disbursements                                  ..      21         27        53
Principal repayments                           ..       0          0         0
Net flows                                      ..      21         27        53
Interest payments                              ..       0          0         0
Net transfers                                  ..      21         27        53
World Bank Resident Mission: West Bank and Gaza                                                                         10113/98
- 60 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Extract from
Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MJDP-1)
Capacity Building Component
Restructuring Plan
I.    Introduction
The Ministry of Local Government (MLG) and the Bank have been concerned about the pace of
implementation of the Capacity Building Component of the project for some time. It was apparent that
unless the component was restructured it would not achieve its objectives of a reformed Local Government
system. While two of the three planned Technical Committees (TCs: legal and institutional, and fiscal and
financial had been functioning for about two years and had produced a significant amount of work, the rate
of output had not been able to keep pace with the original time table; (the third TC (managerial and
technical) had been placed on hold pending a resolution of the issues relating to the other two). On
examination, it became clear that the MLG Capacity Building Unit (CBU) which was supposed to have
provided substantive analytic and other support to the program, had not been adequately staffed. In
addition, work at the level of the selected municipalities (SMs) has been progressing reasonably well, but
the SMs needed support from and guidance by the MLG-CBU which had not been forthcoming also
because of its staffing limitations.
While the problems were known, it has taken a while to reach a consensus on a restructuring program.
This program had to address the staffing problems effectively while maximizing Palestinian participation
both now and in the future. It also had to be consistent with MLGs own structure, operations and policies
and plans for the future. Further, the substantive program of work to be undertaken by the TCs needed to
be revised to take into account what was already done and changes in the Palestinian circumstances since
the original conception of the program, and a new timetable established.
Consequently, the program is being revised to restructure and re-staff the MLG-CBU and establish a new,
coherent framework for reform, integrating and coordinating the work of the operational TC's; and
recruiting competent consultants to execute essential studies.
These revisions are based on the outcomes of a Policy Workshop held on April 28-29 at the World Bank
Resident Mission Office in al Ramn, Jerusalem. This workshop was opened by the Minister of LG, Dr. S.
Erekat, and chaired by the Deputy Minister, Dr. H. Araj. It was attended by senior representatives of
MOF (Dep. Minister Dr. A. Alawneh), Ministry of Justice, the Legislative Council and a wide
cross-section of Municipalities (including the SMS involved in MIDP-1, Bethlehem 2000, and the proposed
Second Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP-2)). A number of Donor Agencies also
participated (including USAID, UNDP and the Dutch). The Bank was represented by the Team Leader
(Robotham) and the local project team as well as the visiting LG Finance Specialist Team Member from
Washington (Fitz Ford).
At the Bank's initiative, Professor Roy Bahl of Georgia State University (a world acknowledged expert on
public finance) and Mr. Richard Winnie, a legal expert from Alemeda County, California, also attended
and provided advice. Lively, wide ranging and highly productive discussions were held over a two day
-61 -



period, and course of action for the future was agreed. Subsequent discussions were held with MLG Dep.
Minister Dr. Araj on May 6, 1999 to confirm this course of action, and to develop a Restructuring Plan.
This note sets out what has been agreed. The Restructuring Plan focuses on the following issues:
*   The Framework for Reform
*   The CBU
*   The New Project Accounting & MIS Units
*   The Budget
H. The Framework for Reform
The April workshop focused on the need to develop a suitable framework for guiding the LG reform effort.
Such a framnework was outlined with the assistance of Prof. Bahl. This outline is set out below, and a
responsibility matrix and proposed work program are presented in Annexes 1 & 2 of this document.
These will be used over the next 12 months as the basis for preparing a "White Paper" setting out
MLGlMOF's proposed policies and plans for reform.
The White Paper would set out to answer the question: What kind of LG system does Palestine want now
and for the future and what is efficient and practicable? It would be discussed at conferences of key
stakeholders, suitably amended and then presented to the PA and the Legislature for further review and
approval. The Paper would then form the basis for next stage of the process: the drafting new legislation
for the LG system.
Four main phases over a 27 month period are anticipated as follows:
Phase                                                 Duration                  Period
1.    Preparatory Organizational                      3 months               Dec. 99 - Feb. 00
2.    Preparation, Review and Approval of White Paper  12 months             Feb. 00 - Feb. 01
3.    Legal Drafting                                  9 months               Dec. 00 - Aug. 01
4.    Legislative Review and Approval                 3 months               Aug. 01 - Nov. 01
A. The "White Paper"
Key Elements: A summary of the key items that need to be addressed in White Paper is presented below.
They include the following:
*   Assignment of Functions
*   Taxation
*   User Charges and Cost Recovery
*   Transfers and Subsidies
*   National Pool of Funds and the Allocation Mechanism
*   Budgets and Budget Constraints
*   Building a Flexible and Dynamic System
*   Supporting Analytic Studies
-62 -



Each is briefly outlined below, together with a note on what needs to be done operationally.
1. Assignment of Functions
* Functions must be clearly assigned to each level and class of local government.
* Some functions may be required or mandated by the central government, others may be at the option of
the local government. These functions have expenditure responsibility. As a consequence, revenues will
be assigned to every function to ensure that they can be carried out. These revenues may be in the form
of authority to levy taxes or user changes or fees, or some form of transfer from the central
government.
* Some mandated functions may be central government responsibilities for which local governments are
the executing agencies. In these cases the central government sets the standards for the delivery of the
services or functions. Direct payment by the central government is usually part of this arrangement.
2. Taxation
* Powers: It is important that local government have some taxing powers, not only so that they are able
to carry out particular functions, but also in order that they may be held accountable for their
performance by their citizens. These powers may vary from the determination of the tax - this is often
associated with optional services - to determination of the tax rate for a tax that is otherwise
formulated by the central government and assigned to the local government.
* Assignment Strategy: Some taxes should clearly not be assigned to local governments. These include
corporate income taxes, VAT and foreign trade. The most desirable form of revenues for the functions
assigned to local governments are user charges for the services they provide.
* Type of Tax: Taxes need to be considered carefully as well. The property tax is often considered to be
an ideal local government tax, but it is very difficult to administer; alternatives such as land taxes and
development levies will be considered. Other taxes to be examined are motor vehicles, business licenses
and income taxes. A local income tax may be readily levied and inexpensively administered as a
surcharge on the national income tax.
3. User Charges and Cost Recovery
*   To the maximum extent possible, each service should be associated with a user charge that is able to
recover the cost of that service.
4. Transfers and Subsidies
* When the cost of delivering that service at a standard that the central government desires for all the
people makes it difficult for the poor to afford, there is a case for the central government to provide a
transfer to subsidize the poor.
*   It is important that the form of the subsidy does not lessen incentives to be efficient in service delivery.
* Form of Transfers: Transfers by the central government also may be in the form of grants or shared
- 63 -



taxes. The transfer system will be based on a careful assessment of the policy outcomes that the
Palestinian government wants to achieve.
5. The National Pool of Funds and the Allocation Mechanism
The following will need to be decided:
* The size and source of the pool or pools that are to be divided.
* The primary concern will be to decide whether a particular pool will be based on a shared designated
tax or taxes, general revenues or cost reimbursement.
* Because every option has implications for macro-economic management the choices will have to be
carefully considered.
* As predictability is an important objective of the system to be instituted, it is important that ad hoc
determination is avoided to the extent possible.
* In addition, the method for dividing the pool(s) will be recommended. The options to be considered
include relating a portion to the jurisdiction of origin, applying a formula or using cost reimbursement.
An important principle that will be followed in deciding on tax and transfer systems is to keep the
methodology and administration as simple as possible. It is recognized that precision is unlikely and
seeking such precision often adds unmanageable complexity.
* A system of classification will be needed in order to permit differential treatment of local governments,
both within and between levels, based on their exhibited characteristics and capabilities. In other
words, the system has to allow municipalities which demonstrate the ability to perform better to have
more autonomy, responsibility and authority compared to weaker municipalities, and provision has to
be made to provide more assistance to weaker local governments.
6. Budgets and Budget Constraint
* Hard Budget Constraint: The intergovernmental fiscal system will impose a hard budget constraint
on local governments. Local governments will not be allowed to operate unfinanced budget deficits, and
the central government will not bail out local governments that run such deficits.
*   Borrowing: Local governments will be allowed to borrow under well-defined rules that ensure that
macro stability is not jeopardized. Borrowing will primarily be for investments in order to match
financing to revenue streams.
* Safeguards: The system will include safeguards to ensure that both the central and the local
government will follow the rules established.
* Fit: Because municipal finance and intergovernmental fiscal relations constitute a system, it will be
ensured that all the parts fit and work together to achieve the overall policy objectives of the
government.
-64 -



7. Building a Flexible and Dynamic System
* An intergovernmental fiscal system is always in transition. As a result, an institutionalized arrangement
will be made to regularly review the structure, details and operations of the system. To facilitate
revision, the details of the system will not be enshrined in the Constitution, although its principles may
be.
8. Supporting Analytic Studies
A number of studies will be undertaken to support the above, including the following major analyses (See
attached TORs):
* User Charges and Taxes Study: Analysis of the structure and performance current system and options
for the future.
* Intergovernmental Transfers and LG Investment Financing Study: Analysis of the present systems and
their performance and options for the future
B. Drafting the Laws
Once the White Paper has been substantially agreed the next stage would be the drafting of laws. The
objective of the drafting is to codify the agreements in the White Paper in language that the parties to the
agreement understand.
Process: The following schema is proposed:
3 The drafters will first set out: a) what in the current arrangements between central and local
governments will continue unchanged; and then b) what will be new agreements.
e The assignment of responsibilities will be specified along with the associated rights created.
* When the transcription of the understandings are confirned by the parties concerned, the laws will then
be drafted.
*   The basic laws to be drafted will be kept simple and clear, and will be consistent with other laws to
create a system that is a consistent, practical vision.
*   Responsibilities for implementation of all requirements under the laws will be assigned.
Basic Components of the Laws: Seven components will compose the basic body of the laws.
1. Structure ofLG System
This will describe the structure of local government institutions, establishing geographic boundaries;
internal legislative and broad administrative structures; functions, distinguishing mandatory from
discretionary; rights of all elements within the system; and the relationships possible between local
governments.
- 65 -



2. The Local Fiscal System
This will describe the budget process, setting out principles; identifying sources of revenues; addressing
questions of equity; borrowing; reporting fiscal information and auditing.
3. Annual Budget
This describes the annual budget process which commits the government to specific expenditures and
revenue targets and sources for the year. It must be consistent with the fiscal system.
4. Taxes and Fees
This sets out local taxes and fees, and must be consistent with the assignment of functions.
5. Planning and Development
This sets out the arrangements concerning local planning, zoning and development, including
development controls, and must be consistent with the law on local taxes and fees, among others.
6. Local Courts
This sets out the structure, jurisdiction and functioning of local courts.
7. Employment:
This sets out the duties, rights, responsibilities and obligations of the local public employees.
The attached diagrams and tables indicate the organizational arrangements and responsibilities under the
program, including the structure of the CBU and the PAU.
-66 -



M IDP-1, Restructuring Program, Responsibility Matrix
Phase   Activitv                                                                R esDosibilitv
MLG   NCC  FF  CL  AF  AC  DR
1.00     Preparatory Organizational: Establish New Committee
Organizational Arrangements
1.1      Establish National Coordinating Committee (NCC)               E
1.2     Establish Technical Sub-Committee                              E
1.3     Prepare first NCC meeting                                      E
1.4     PreDare first TSC meeting                                      S      E      _
1.5     Hold first CTC meeting                                         S      E
1.6     Hold first TSC meetine                                         S      S    E   E   E    E    E
1.7      Recruit consultants for Fiscal and Financial studies
1.7.1       Invite proDosals                                           E
1.7.2      Review DroDosals                                            E
1.7.3      Award contract                                              E
2.00     Prepare W hite Paper
2.1      Fiscal and Financial Analytic Work
2.1.1    Undertake Supporting Fiscal and Financial Studies
(Consultants)
2.1.1.1     a) User charge and taxes                                   E     RA    P   N   N   N    N
2.1.1.2     b) Inter-Governmental Transfers and financing LG           E     RA    P   N   N    N    N
investment
2.1.2    Analyze functions                                             N     RA    E   N   P   N    N
2.1.3    Analyze costs of deliverv                                     N     RA    E   N   N    N    N
2.1.4    Classify functions according to most appropriate type of     RA    RA    E   P   N   N    N
revenue source
2.1.5    Analvze Potential transfer systems                            N     RA    E   N   N   N    N
2.1.6    DeveloD DroDosals for subsidies. shared taxes & grants        N     RA    E   N   N   N    N
2.1.7    Develon parameters for local govt. borrowing                  N     RA    E   N   N   N    N
2.1.8    Consult and agree on assignment of functions and             RA      E    S   P   P   P   p
expenditure & revenue responsibility                          -_
2.1.9    Review finance & financial analytic work                      P      E    S   P   p   p   P
2.20     Classification and Accountability
2.2.1    Agree classification system & operating rules for various    RA    RA    S   E   S   N    P
classes & levels of LG
2.2.2    Devise and agree accountability systems, incl. Monitoring,   RA    RA    P   P   P   E    P
evaluation, reporting & sanctions
2.3      White Paper and National W orkshop                            -      -              =    =
2.3.1    Assemble White Paper                                          S      E    P   P   P   P    P
2.3.2    Arrange W orkshops                                            E      E    S   S   S   S    S
2.3.3    Hold W orkshops to Review White Paper                         E      E    P   P   P   P    P
2.3.4    Amend White Paper on basis of discussion above               RA      E    P   P   P   P   P
2.4      White Paper and PA and Legislative Approval
2.4.1    Submit White Paper to PA and Legislature                      E      N    N   N   N   N   N
2.4.2    PA and Legislature Review and Approval                        S      S    S   S   S   S   S
3.00     Laws and Regulations
3.1      Draft Structure of LG svstem                                 RA     RA    R   N   N   N    E
3.2      Draft Budget Drocess                                         RA    RA    R   N   N   N    E
3.3      Draft Components of the Annual Budget                        RA    RA    R   N   N    N    E
3.4      Draft Local taxes and fees consistent with the above         RA    RA    R   N   N   N    E
3.5      Draft Planning, development and development procedures       RA    RA    R   N   N   N    E
and standards
3.6      Draft Structure, functions and iurisdictions of local courts  RA    RA    R   R   R   N    E
3.7      Draft Rights, duties, powers and obligations of local        RA    RA    N   N   R   N    E
emplovees                                                    R
3.8      Draft Accompanving regulations and bylaws                    RA    RA    R   R   R   R   E
3.9      Review Legal framework and draft laws and bvlaws             RA    RA    R   R   R   R    E
3.10     Amend Legal framework and draft laws as appropriate          RA    RA    I   R   R   I    E
4.00     PA and Legislative Approval
4.1      Submit Laws to PA and legislature                         1E            S       s   S   S   S    S
4.2      Review and aDDrove law                        ,               N      S  |s   S   s   S |S
4.3      End                                                           _   1               [
Key: A = approve; E = execute; N = notified; P = participate; R  review; RA = review & approve; S = support.
67 -



MIDP-1
Capacity Building Program
Oganization Chart
Inter-Governmental Reform Program
MM                   68 -     T-v 
- 68 -



MJIDP-1
Capacity Building Program
Organogram
Selected Municipalities' Program
69 -



MIDI-1 Capacity Building Program
Restructuring Plan
Organogram
Capacity Building Unit(CBU), Project Accounting Unit (PAU) and
MIS Unit (MISU)
Deputy Minister
MLG
:   I         :
Director General
Recruited ittemafionally as a group
- _
CBU
Director
Finance Expert    I                PAU                             MISU
Director                         Director
|Management Expert| I
eSystmsAccountnt                  SystemsEngineer
| MIS Expert | |                 lll
Project Accountant                 SupportStaff
(1) 
F  Support Staff  7
1Project Accou-ntant
(2)
-Spport Staff
- 70 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Organogram, Implementation Responsibilities and Work Plan
12 (a) MIDP-2 Organogram
< ~~~~~~~~Lending
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----------------------___                   mlmnigAece
, ~~~ Imlmetn Agece
tSonitoring
~~~~~~~~Implementation
-71-



2 (b) MIDP-2 Responsibilities Matrix: The following table outlines the roles and responsib lities of the key agencies involved in the project.
Component                                                                                          Responsibility
MPW               PWA               MLG
A.  Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1. Regional Roads
*  Identification                                                                   E                                 N/C
*  Preparation                                                                      E                                  N
*  Implementation                                                                   E          .                       N
2. Municipal and Village Water & Sanitation
*  Identification                                                                                     E               N/C
*  Preparation                                                                                        E                N
*  Implementation                                                                    _                E                N
B. Capacity Building
1. MPW
*  Identification                                                                   E                                  N
*  Preparation                                                                      E                                  N
*  Implementation                                                                   E                                   N
2. MLG/SM
*  Identification                                                                                                       E
*  Preparation                                                                                                          E
*  Implementation                                                                                                       E
C. Incremental Operating Expense Support
1. MPW Component
*  Monitoring                                                                       E                                 N/CL
*  Reporting                                                                        E                                 N/CL
* Accounting & Fin. Admin
* Opening Special Account                                                        E                                   N
* Management of Special Accounts                                                 E                                   N
* Certification                                                                  E                                   N
* Payment                                                                        E                                   N
* Preparation of Withdrawal Applications & Submission to IDA                     E                                   N
* Maintaining Project Accounts                                                   E                                   N
* Preparing PMRs for submission to MLG                                           E                                   N
* Submission of PMRs to MLG for consilidation on a quarterly basis               E                                   N
2. PWA Component
*  Monitoring                                                                                         E               N/CL
*  Reporting                                                                                          E               N/CL
* Accounting & Fin. Admin.
* Opening Special Account                                                                          E                 N
* Managernent of Special Accounts                                                                  E                 N
* Certification                                                                                    E                 N
* Payment                                                                                          E                 N
* Preparation of Withdrawal Applications & Submission to IDA                                       E                 N
* Maintaining Project Accounts                                                                     E                 N
* Preparing PMRs for submission to MLG                                                             E                 N
* Submission of PMRs to MLG for consilidation on a quarterly basis                                 E                 N
3. MLG Component
*  Monitoring                                                                                                           H
*  Reporting                                                                                                            E
*  Accounting & Fin. Admin.
* Opening Special Account
* Management of Special Accounts                                                                                     E
* Certification                                                                                                      E
* Payment                                                                                                            E
* Preparation of Withdrawal Applications                                                                             E
* Mamtaining Project Accounts                                                                                        E
* Preparing PMRs                                                                                                     E
4. Overall Project
*  Financial Monitoring                                                           N/CL              N/CL                E
*  Reporting, including quarterly PMRs & Reports on physical progress             N/CL              N/CL                E
*  Accounting & Fin. Admin.
* Consolidating & Maintaining overall Project Accounts                           N                 N                 E
* Consolidation of PMRs for submission to IDA on a quarterly basis               N                 N                 E
* Appointrnent of Auditors                                                       N                 N                 E
* Commission of annual audits                                                    N                 N                 E
* Submission of annual audits to IDA on a timely basis                           N                 N                 E
ote: E=Main Exncuting Responsiliy; NWs Not*ed & Supplied by Agency with rloevant projea infonnation; C=consun with and Is confted by executing agency; CL=CobbNrates wn and sppolts agencywlh execut ng
responsibility.
- 72.-



12 (c) Work Plan
_                                                               __~~,~
_                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~De  aJn
Prol Est.    Bank       Prep.   Bank NO            f  Rec prop, Review &       k
d Loc.          Sec.            Description           Dist.    Value      Financ.    Design   on TOR &               prep.   prep Eval   N.O
(USS$)    (USSm)        TOR       S.List    prop.    preiod       Rep
__________       = WB Projects                      =
1 Qalqilia       R   Azzun-Masha Road (I)            WB        0.550       0.450             _                   _           _
2 Qalqilia       R   Azzun-Masha Road (II)           WB        0.550       0.450
3 Hebron         R   Sureef-Beit Awwa Road (I)       WB        1.750                   Jun-00     Jul-00    Jul-00   Aug-00    Sep-00 Sep-00
4 Hebron         R   Sureef-Beit Awwa Road (II)      WB        1.750                   Jun-00     Jul-00    Jul-00   Aug-00    Sep-00 Sep-00
5 Jenin          R   Zabda-Barta'a Road              WB        0.700                   Jun-00     Jul-00    Jul-00   Aug-00    Sep-00 Sep-00
6 Jenin          R   lenin-Haifa Road                WB        2.100                   Jul-00    Aug-00   Sep-00    Oct-00    Nov-00 Nov-00
7 Oalgilia       R   Falamia-Qalqalia Road           WB        0.700                    Jul-00    Aug-00   Sep-00    Oct-00    Nov-00 Nov-00
8 Hebron         R   Sureef-Beit Hummar Road         WB        0.600       0.500 
9 Nablus         R   Northen Entrance to Nablus      WB      I1 500                     Jul-00    Aug-00   Sep-O     Oct-00    Nov-00 Nov-00
10 Ramal/Bira    R   Nilin-Budrus Road                WB        1.500                   Jul-00    Aug-00   Sep-00    Oct-00    Nov-00 Nov-00
Total Road Projects                      11.700      1.400
1 Nablus         W    Kufr Qallil Water Project      WB        0.600       0.500
2 Nablus         W    Awarta Water Project           WB  T      .100
3 Salfeet        W    Bidia Water Project            WB        0.500
4 Jenin          W    Faqua Water Project            Ws        0.600
Total Water Projects                     2.800       0.500
Sub Total West Bank Projects            14.500       1.900_
Gaza Strip                                                                    _        _                _ _
1 Jabalia        R   Al Bahaer-Sudania Road          GZ        0900        0.700
2 Gaza Strip     R   Beit Hanoun-Wadi Gaza Road      GZ        2.200                           _            Jul-00    Aug-00    Sep-00 Sep-00
3  Gaza Strip    R   Wadi Gaza-Rafah Road            GZ        2.200                                        Jul-00   Aug-00    Sep-00 Sep-00
Works Sub Total Gaza                     5.300       0.700
Design & Supervision                   _           _____
1 WBG           TA  Roads Desipn                     WB/G    t.200         0.700                            Jul-00    AuP-OI    Sepo-00 SeP-00
2 West Bank   TA  Water Projects design              WB   I   0.200   |  0.200   J                          Jul-01    Aug-01    Sep-01  Sep-01
_               ~~~~~~Design sub total                     1.400   |0.900_
1 WBG           TA  Road Maintenance Program         WBIG      1.400       1.300        Jul-00    Au -00   Sep-00    Nov-00    Dec-00 Dec-00
2 WBG            G   hardware & Equipment            WB/G    0.500    0.300
_           _   ~~~~~MPW Sub Total Capacity Building   |1.900   |1.600__
1 WBG           TA  Unified Accounting System        WB/G |   0.600        0.500
3 Year Investment Plans for             1i700        1500
2 WBG           TA  municipalities                   WB/G                              Au -00    Dec-00   Dec-00    Feb-01    Mar-O1  Mar-01
3 WBG            G   Equipment                       WB/G    0.200         0.100
MLG Sub Total Capacity Building          2.500       2.100
_Sub Total Capacity Building              4.400       3.700                            _      .
1  _______O&M  O&M for PWA                           WB/G    0.100         0.100       _               _
2              O&M  O&M for MLG                      WB/G    0.300         0.200
Sub Total O&M                            0.400       0.300
Total Program                  WB/G    26.000        7.5DO
- 73 -



_                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Desicin                  Biddinac      _
Pe     Prprn           Rve   Cn.Prep              Dsg Prepbi   Req Rnk Banks
_   Loc.        Sec.              Description            prelin.   dsin    devin    Aw ard w      cos       Design    Pe p      bid            Banh
dsg design  d        ein Aad            does.     comts.      does    N-bidt         N.0
_WB Projects                                                                                   I
1  Qalqilia      R   Azzun-Masha Road (I)                            Apr-00  May-00               May-OO    May-OO   May-00           Jul-00   Aug-00
2  Qaicilia      R   Azzun-Masha Road (11)                           Apr-00  May-00               May-00    May-00   May-00          Jul-00   Aug-00
3  Hebron        R   Sureef-Beit Awwa Road (l)             Oct-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Sep-O0    Nov-00    Nov-00   Nov-00            Jan-01   Jan-00
4  Hebron        R   Sureef-Beit Awwa Road (ll)            Oct-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Sep-00    Nov-00    Nov-00   Nov-00            Jan-01   Jan-00
5  Jenin         R   Zabda-Barta'a Road                    Oct-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Sep-00    Nov-00    Nov-00   Nov-00            Jan-01   Jan-00
6  Jenin         R   Jenin-Haifa Road                      Nov-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Nov-00    Nov-00    Nov-00    Jan-01           May-01   May-01
7  Qalqilia      R   Falamia-Qalqalia Road                 Nov-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Nov-00    Nov-00    Nov-00    Jan-01          May-01   May-01
8  Hebron        R   Sureef-Beit Hummar Road                         Apr-O   Ma  Ma-00            Ma       y--00    0  MaY00          Jul-00   Au -00
9  Nablus        R   Northen Entrance to Nablus            Nov-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Nov-00    Nov-00    Nov-00   Nov-00            Nov-01   Nov-01
10  Ramal/Bira   R   Nilin-Budrus Road                     Nov-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Nov-00    Nov-00    Nov-00   Nov-00            May-02   May-02
Total Road Projects
1  Nablus        w    Kufr Qallil Water Project                                                                          Jul-00       Jul-00    Jul-00
2  Nablus        W    Awarta Water Project                                                     I_                    I T_=_Jul-01     Jul-01    Jul-01
3  iSalfeet      W   |Bidia Water Project                                                       _          _____T___=Jul-01           Jul-01    Jul-01
4  IJenin        W    Faqua Water Project                                                                  _             Jul-01       Jul-01    Jul-01
I          0        Total Water Projects
Sub Total West Bank Projects                                      _
Gaza Strip
1  Jabalia       R   Al Bahaer-Sudania Road                                                                                           Jul-00    Jul-00
2  Gaza Strip    R   Beit Hanoun-Wadi Gaza Road            Oct-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Sep-00    Nov-00    Nov-00   Nov-00            Dec-00   Dec-00
3  lGaza Strip    R   Wadi Gaza-Rafah Road                 Oct 00   Nov-00   Nov-00   SeP-00    Nov-00    Nov-00   Nov-00            Dec-01   Dec-01
Works Sub Total Gaza
Design & Supervisioss                                                                                     ____L_I_=_
1  WBG           TA   Roads Design                         Oct-00   Nov-00   Nov-00   Sep-00    Nov-00    Nov-00   Nov-00
2  Went Bank   TA   Water Projects design                  Oct01   Nov -01   Nov-01                Nov-01    Nov-01   Novt01
________    =     >Design sub total                                                                          ___
_                 Capac~Buity R;ls                    .          _                   _                           .dd            _-
1  WBG           TA   Road Maintenance Program                                          Jan-01
2  WBG           0G  hardware & Equipment                                                        _                      Mar-01       Mar-01   Mar-01
MPW Sub Total Capacity Building                                    =_=
1  WBG           TA   Unified Accounting System                                         Feb-01                                  _ _=
3 Year Investment Plans for
2  WBG           TA   municipalities                                                    Mar-01
3  WBG           G   Equipment                                        _                                                 Feb-01
_MLG Sub Total Capacity Building                                    _                                           _
Sub Total Capacity Building
1               O&M  O&M for PWA
2               O&M  O&M for MLG                           -          -
Sub Total O&M
Total Program
- 74 -



__B                                                                                                              _dina  _mple I
Identify CO    Invite to    Bidding                                 eB. Bid   Bank    Award    Comp.
Loc.         Sec.             Description             S.List &       Bid        Period    Bid open.  & prep.   N.O.    Cont.       work
Bank N.O                                        Rep.
_ __________       WB Projects
1  Qalqilia      R   Azzun-Masha Road (1)                               Aug-00 30 davs         Sep-00     Oct-00   Oct-00    Oct-00    Feb-02
2  Qalqilia      R   Azzun-Masha Road (II)                              Aug-00 30 days         Sep-00     Oct-00   Oct-00    Oct-00   Feb-02
3  Hebron         R   Sureef-Beit Awwa Road (I)              Jan-01     Feb-01 30 days         Mar-01                        Apr-01    Apr-0
4  Hebron        R   Sureef-Beit Awwa Road (11)              Jan-01      Feb-01 30 days        Mar-01  _Apr-l   Apr-03
5  Jenin         R   Zabda-Barta'a Road                                 Feb-01 30 davs         Mar-01               =        Apr-01    Aor02
6  Jenin         R   Jenin-Haifa Road                        May-01      Jul-01 30 davs        Aua-01                        Sep-01    Feb-03
7  Qa ilia       R   Falamia-Qalqalia Road                               Jul-01 30 days        Au -01                        Sep-01   Aug-02
B  Hebron        R   Sureef-Beit Hummar Road                            Aua-00 30 da s         Sep-00    Oct-00   Oct-00    Oct-00   Feb-02
9  Nablus        R   Northen Entrance to Nablus              Dec-01      Jan-02 30 days        Mar-02                        Apr-02   Dec-03
10 Ramal/Bira    R   Nilin-Budrus Road                        Jun-02      Jul-02 30 davs       Aug-02                        Sep-02    Oct-03
Total Road Projects                                                                                    _
1  Nablus        W    Kufr Qallil Water Project               Jul-00    Aug-00 30 days         Sep-00    Aua-00  AuP-00    Oct-00   Aug-01
2  Nablus        w    Awarta Water Project                    Jul-01    Aug-01 30 days         Sep-01    Aug-00  Aug-00    Oct-01   Aug-O
3  Salfeet       w W    Bidia Water Project                   Jul-01    Aug-01 30 days         Sep-01    Aug-00  Aug-00 Oct-01    Aug-02
4  Jenin         W    Faqua Water Project                     Jul-01    Aug-01 30 days         Sep-01    Aug-00  Aug-00    Oct-01   Aug-02
Total Water Projects
Sub Total West Bank Projects                  _          _=_=
Gaza Strip                                                                       _        L_I
1  Jabalia       R   Al Bahaer-Sudania Road                   Jul-O0     Jul-00 30 days        Aug-O0      Jul-00   Jul-00   Sep-00    Jul-O0
2  Gaza Strip    R   Beit Hanoun-Wadi Gaza Road              Dec-00     Dec-00 30 davs         Jan-01                        Feb-01    Feb-02
3  Gaza StriP     R   Wadi Gaza-Rafah Road                   Dec-01     Dec-01 30 davs         Jan-02                        Feb-02    Feb-03
Works Sub Total Gaza                                                                   _        _         _
,Design & Supervision                     _            _                                      =_=
1  WBG           TA   Roads Design                                                                                  =                  Jan-03
2  West Bank    TA   Water Projects design                                                                                             Jan 03
Design sub total
_            _.  _                                                           .~J
1  WBG           TA   Road Maintenance Program                                                                                         Feb-03
2  WBG           G   hardware & Equipment                    Mar-Ol    Mar-01 30 davs          Apr-0l                       May- 1    Feb-02
_MPW Sub Total Capacity Building                                                                                        I =  =
1 WBG            TA   Unified Accounting System                                                 =                   =         =        Dec-03
3 Year Investment Plans for
2  WBG           TA   municipalities                                    ___                                                            Dec-03
3  WBG           G   Equipm ent                                         Mar-01 30 days         Apr-O1                       May-O1    Feb-02
MLG Sub Total Capacity Building                                          = _________
_Sub Total Capacity Building    =    =    =
1               O&M  O&M for PWA                                                 _              =_=_                                   Dec-04
2               O&M  O&M for MLG                                                                                    _                  Dec-04
Sub Total O&M
Total Program
- 75 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(MIDP-2)
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
between
THE MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
and each of the
MUNICIPALITIES OF
JABALIA, KHAN YOUNIS, TULKAREM, AL-RAM, JERICHO AND TARQUMIA
(TIE PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITIES)
MIDP-2 PROJECT
PM IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT  dated --------------------, 2000, between the Ministry of Local Government (MLG)
and, each of the Municipalities of Jabalia, Khan Younis, Tulkarem, Al-Ram, Jericho and Tarqumia (the
Participating Municipalities).
WHEREAS,  the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) has entered, for the benefit of the PA,
into a trust fund credit agreement with the International Development Association (as Administrator of
the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) (IDA) dated November 2, 1998 (the Credit Agreement); and
WHEREAS, the Credit Agreement provides in its section 6.01 (e) & 6.02 and Schedule 4.A.1 for
the obligation of the PLO to cause MLG to enter with the Participating Municipalities into an
Implementation Agreement (as this term is defined in the Credit Agreement) for purposes of ensuring
effective implementation of part C. 1 of the MIDP-2 Project (the Project).
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1.   The terms used in this Agreement shall have the same meaning ascribed to them in the Credit
Agreement.
2.   The Participating Municipalities, in consultation with MLG, shall be responsible for procuring
goods, consultant services, studies, training and incurring incremental expenditure under part
C.1. of the Project. The responsibilities of each of the Participating Municipalities and MLG are
- 76 -



outlined in the table annexed to this Agreement (as Annex 1) and considered part and parcel
hereof.
3.   The Participating Municipalities shall carry out part Cl of the Project relative to the
Participating Municipalities in accordance with the table annexed hereto as Annex 1 and
considered part and parcel hereof.
4.   The Participating Municipalities shall assist MLG  in a timely and effective manner, in
undertaking its monitoring and reporting obligations under part D.1. of the Project, and shall
participate with MLG, the MPW and PWA in the mid-term review provided for under Schedule
4.B. of the Credit Agreement.
5.   PA, through MLG shall, on an annual basis, review the Participating Municipalities' performance
under this Agreement and shall, if need be, introduce modifications to this Agreement with IDA's
prior written approval.
IN WITNESS VVHEREOF, the parties hereto set their hands this           day of
2000.
MUNICIPALITY OF JABALIA
MUNICIPALITY OF KHAN YOUNIS
MUNICIPALITY OF TULKAREM
MUNICIPALITY OF AL-RAM
MUNICIPALITY OF JERICHO
MUNICIPALITY OF TARQUMIA
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
-77 -



MIDP-2 Project - West Bank and Gaza
Responsibility Matrix
Project Component: C.1 (Schedule 2, Trust Fund Credit Agreement)
Summary Description: Capacity Building at the PM Level
Activity                                                      Responsibility
MLG             PMs
Sector Policy, Priorities, Budgets and Managemcnt: LG Sector
I      Establish National and Regional Capacity Building Objectives and Priorities                    E               N
2      Prepare National and Regional Programs, Plans and Budgets                                      E               N
3      Make National and Regional Budget Allocations                                                  E               N
4      Review Achievement of National and Regional Programs, Plans and Budgets                        E               N
Working Group Operations
I     Establish Working Groups                                                                        N               E
2      Finalize TORs for Operations of working Groups                                                 N                E
3      Establish Detailed Schedule for Work of Working Groups                                         N                E
4      Establish Operating Budget for Work of Working Groups                                                           E
5      Review Outputs of Working Groups and Develop a Detailed Program and Budget for                 R                E
Implementation
6      Implement Recommendations of Working Groups                                                   R, A              E
Capacity Building Studies and Training at PM Level
1      Finalize TORs for Institutional, Financial, Managerial and other Studies and Training          N               E
Develop Detailed Budget and Program for Studies, including Workshops                           N               E
2      Invite Proposals for Institutional, Financial and Managerial Studies                           N                E
3      Review Proposals for Institutional, Financial and Managerial Studies and Recommend Award       N                E
4      Award Contracts for Institutional, Financial and Managerial Studies                           R, A              E
5      Review progress of Institutional, Financial and Managerial Studies                            R, A              E
6      Review Reports on Institutional, Financial and Managerial Studies                             R, A              E
7      Hold Workshops on Findings of Studies and to Agree on Actions                                  N                E
8      Develop Detailed Implementation Program and Budget for Findings of Studies                     N                E
9      Implement Findings of Institutional, Financial and Managerial Studies, Including Any Necessary  R, A            E
Programs of Training
Project Finance and Accounting
-78 -



I     Preparation of Certificates and Claims                                                      N               E
2      Review of Claims and Payment Authorization                                                 E               N
3     Authorizing Cost Variations: >+/- 10% on individual Sub-components                          E               N
4      Payment                                                                                     E              N
5     Accounting                                                                                   E              N
6      Technical, Financial and Progress Reporting (Monthly, Quarterly and Annual)                 E              N
Responsibility Codes: A = Approves; E = Executes; N = Is Notified; R = Reviews
- 79 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Palestinian National Authority                                      AU 1J f11
Ministry of Public Works                                          -   a,t 5DJI,
Minister's Office                                                    n    A
Letter of Road Maintenance Policy
May 1, 2000
Mr Joseph Saba
Country Director
West Bank and Gaza Office
Middle East and North Afica Region
Subiect: Letter of Sector Policy for Road Maintenance in the
West Bank and Gaza
The Ministry of Public Works is the agency ofthe Palestinian National Authority responsible for the
roads sector. This includes responsibility for the overall planning, development, management and
maintenance of roads in the Palestinian territories. This letter addresses one part of a broader
transport sector policy that the Ministry is developing through an on-going Bank-supported sector
study. The latter should lead to the establishment of a comprehensive tansport development strategy
and plan within the next two years.
General Statement on Road Maintenance Policy
The Palestinian National Authority recognizes that the economic efficiency of all roads, whether
national, regional or local, hinges on the timely execution of routine and periodic maintenance works.
It also recogizes that financing essential maintenance works requires an adequate and steady flow of
funds. A rational road maintenance program will help in improving transport services, increasing
accessibility, and reducing tansportation costs, while improving the quality of life of the population
and helping create an enabling environment for private investment.
One of the major responsibilities the Ministry of Public Works is to maintain the national road
network, including the major arterials and the regional road network serving municipalities and
villages in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. The Ministry of Local Government shares with the
municipalities the responsibility for maintaining other road networks within municipal and village
boundaries.
The Ministry of Public Works intends to effectively discharge its responsibilities, and to coordinate
very closely with other ministries and agencies, particularly the Ministries of Finance and of
Transport and PECDAR, to ensure the sector's efficient management development. With this
objective in mind, the Ministry has identified a number of road maintenance issues that it will address
over the next two-three years. These issues and the ministry's proposed strategy and targets are set out
below.
Major Road Maintenance Issues
Role of the Ministry of Public Works. As noed above, the Ministry of Public Works is the Agency of
the Palestinian National Authority responsible for the road sector. However, there is still a need to
clarify the roles of the various other ministries and govermmental agencies involved in road
maintenace and to develop a strategic framework to address the problems in the most efficient and
cost-effective way possible.
Road Maintenance Funding Mechanism. There is a need to preserve existing road assets by ensuring
a proper level of maintenance and to reduce the aumulated backlog of roads in poor conditions due
{ to the absence of proper maintenance during the past 30 years. To that effect, a funding mechanism
- 80 -



Palestinian National Authority                                                           U U I  tl
Ministry of Public Works                                             a~ juYl ;5jJ
Minister's Office                                                  iJj     &
must be put in place to seme the required stable and adequate flow of find. However, before such a
mechanism as a Rsad Fund caa be established, an inim program has to be developed to obtain
adequat trausf i tom rthe Minstry of Fnmance to at least preserve the current agsss.
Planning and Programmnng Tbere is a need to strengtben the pLming and programming capabiity
of the Ministry of Public Works, so tbat mventory and classificatian of the road nework,
establishment of pnormies, budgeig needs and allocation of hads, and technical expertise can be
updated on a continuous basis, aRd to unprove the disausment and accounting processes This
would permit the Mnisy to take camol of its operaons and cordinste its actvities with other
Ministries and govemmental agenie.
Execution of tde Mainrenance Workr. The Miistry of Public Wods owns and operates a lxge fBet
of mairremance equipment, and iLs staf is p3thordc. TM   leads, when funding for mtimas is
available, to most manenance work being done by force accou, evn if its relative inefficiekcy is
well documented. There is a need to inodue mere contacting out for maint_ance works,
including design and srvio byp       consulig group.
Proposed Strateg to Attain a Proper Level of Road Maintenance
Without anticipating on the recommendan  of bansport s=agy study referred to above, the
Miistry of Public Works proposes to deg with these issues in a satiscwtry manner wibin the nea
five years. To that efect, it iends to use a three-pronged appcoach to inprove the qualiy cfthe
road nerwork under its jurisdiction:
(i) ;t will rationalize its own opemaios and reduce its unit ca  of doing business by reIaczg
force account wih contracts -for mos  outie and perodic _imnance.  It wi  caine,
replacing Force Account withL contacts unil all main race werks are contracted
(ii) it will strengthfe its p7aning and managerial capacity by focusing on the trainiag of its staf
and on transfer of knawledgebeih nei,ibormg counries mi  e fst place, and with major road
research organizations and other major sources of information;
(ii) it will engage in discussions with the Ministry of Finace to secure a stable budget and to
manage its network on a commercial basis, whereby road usum are charged a fee for the use of
the roads, in addition to the genal taxes that are transfenred to the Treasur
Proposed Action Plan in the Short Term
The Ministry will take the  ad as the mam agency responsible for read development, imp
and maintenance, while coo     g its activiies with other mins      and agencies. The
actions to be taken m the coming six to nine months am as follows.
-81 -



Palestinian National Authority                       tAta. WS ze;jW n."
Ministry of Public Works                                      L-,Lu jiPl  ;jjj
Minister's Office                                                  JLJ 
#  Action                                                            Target
Com#etioa
Date
I  Road Fund. To e          proper fuathng of maintenane works on the  July 1, 2000
national network, the  fiis*y will iniae taks With the Ministry of
Finance on the etablisbzu=z of a Read Fund and on the umerim measures
to put mplace before the Fund is opsatnl. It is fresenza  rchawges
on gasoline and diesel fuels, tires, and vehicle liceses, will cofriutbe to
this fimd, in addition toisting tares-that ar xnsedto>ie-Treasury.
2  Road Maintenance Management.   Throw~i internayiaally recruited  Set. 1, 2000
consultants, the yMistry wil3 lauach a stndy aimed at devegopiag a Roads
Maitenanmce Managemet Pha tat will also be of bae&it to ie Ministry
of Local Government aud to muapaltes.  The results ofthis study
should lead the Minstry to COEMIt itself to a 5-year road -aente e
master plan, with yearly decaded eseaEseS to be defied each year of
the program.
3  POCurAement,  It wil inode so     pocurement guideliaes for all  July 1, 2001
works and flr the acqu=moa of goods and services.   e Palestiai
Procurement Law for Govemmena Works has been approved by the
LegLslative council and simged by President Arafat
4  Environmental Managewt  It wik ia =ate nn the use of appropriate  July 1,2001
environmental miatao  measres i all of its works, with the sqpprt of
the Ministry of Environmima Afias.
5  Internal ManagemerL The Nkmsay oofirms its contento deve-lp  January 1,2002
and support ts pram         fimcions. It will enlist the colaboion of
other mnist-c, and g      -      agencies to supp    is efforts m
establishing an efficiet and s e      arganion resposib  for
aintnaing national and regional roads&
6  Replacemera of Forc Accowant by Confraas. IteMinisry wi put in  Januay 1, 2002
place measures to improve the productivity and qualty of    ic
wor-ks by commercialiig the opezous of as existig eqape       t
(i.e charging a fee to roads maierce units, muni    tiep , or even
private  contractors,  for its usage),, and by c  g    out most
maintenance operatons, im-Axding  periodic and roue       c.
Commercializing the operations of i*e exiszng fleet of eqmprent need
regulations before it can be approved.  lowever, the Ministry will stat
discussing the ue with the concenedistions. The Miesywill aso
a=expt to put n place an vcentve pacage compnsmg tragig programs,
bonuses and early reiement so that exhadant pesonel can fd work
outside of the Ministy, possibly ia the public works easeixises that
should develop in that new faework.
7  Overall System Planning The Miistry will in irat the use oftbe Roads  January  1,
Manltenance Management System t-o program its acivties, and will  2002
update cm a pernasiat basis the inveory and fimntial c dassi&ar4  of
2   fithe road network under ts jurisdiction.
82-



Palestinian National Authority                                     I&.W eXb  };t.l   f
Ministry of Publc Works                                            4 kav JUL' ;;j j
Minister's Office                            _AC.
8 Tnriffc SafCy. kI WilliI SOUom all Its qwatias cwpiecknws to Janumy 1, 2002
make the natil and regwmai Eoad neworks a safer pace, both for
pedestrim  and for vehice conductors and passcngs, by aherig to
proven design smdars for bodi project prepaation and execuim.
In closing, I wish to airm the Mhiszys commknent to workig closely with the World Bank and
other donors m ensuing tbat the above smed objecaves and tazgets are achieved
Signed
Mr. Azzam- -Ah
Minister
Ministry of Public Works
-83 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
Social Assessment Summary
Executive Summary
The Second Municipal Infrastructure Development Project is designed to help improve infrastructure
services including roads, water, wastewater and drainage to and within villages and municipalities in the
West Bank and Gaza, in addition to preserve existing infrastructure assets.
1/ This assessment covers one sub-project which was subsequently dropped from consideration (Jenin villages) because it will
be financed by other donors. it excludes two projects (Bidia and Kufur Qallil) which were added recently. Assessments will
be undertaken for the latter prior to implementation.
One component of the project is to construct main water pipelines, internal networks and pumping stations.
In order to meet the World Bank policies, an independent team of Palestinian social specialists has been
commissioned to perform a social assessment for the Project.
The overall objectives of this social assessment was to:
(i) Highlight social impacts of MIDP-2;
(ii) Ensure that MIDP-2 objectives meet the local communities' priorities;
(iii) Provide feedback to PWA on:
*   Beneficiary relationships to MIDP-2 and their perceptions of proposed benefits.
* Ways to improve interventions on the target population.
*   PWA's process of project identification, promotion, appraisal, and supervision.
The Social Assessment focused on MIDP-2's water projects in 13 Palestinian municipalities and villages
benefiting a population of close to 47,500 and as follows:
Name of Project                                Location                          Target Population
Main pipeline to North - Western Jenin    'Anin, Al-Araqa, Al-Hashimiyeh, Al-Yamun, Kufr Dan,
Villages                             Kufr Qud, Rummaneh, Sileh El- Harthiyeh, T'enek,
Taybeh, Zbuba                                              39743
Awarta Water Project                 Awarta                                                      4799
Faqu'a water project                 Faqu'a                                                      2877
Main Findings:
Some of the main fndings from the social assessment can be summarized in the following points:
* Water is the first priority for the local community.
*   Local communities are willing to cooperate with the World Bank and other organizations in the
implementation of the project.
- 84 -



*   People understand the Village Council's (VC) duties and responsibilities.
*   People are aware of water needs and are eager to connect their houses with healthy water, however,
they are unaware of the funding agency.
*   VC and local beneficiaries are willing to contribute to the project financially and in kind.
*   Beneficiaries are concerned about Israel's control over water source.
*   Beneficiaries are vulnerable to problems related to insufficient water supply.
*   Beneficiaries are not aware of the MIDP-2 proposed project.
*   All houses have the infrastructure system for water connection with the proposed water network, there
is no need for major changes in the building structure of the houses.
Positive Aspects
The assessment have identified many positive elements as a result of the project. The following highlight
main issues classified in categories including health, economy, social and agriculture.
A) Health:
* Improved hygiene for women and children. Reduced cases of Ameba among them.
*   Improved health condition (personal cleanness, domestic hygiene, sterilization of food and utensils).
*   Improved community environment, i.e. planting trees on roads, green surroundings.
B) Economical:
The project is expected to have a great impact on the water prices. The prices are expected to drop from an
average of $3.5 to $1.75 per cubic meter. On average, the saving on water cost will be about 52% at 50
liter/person/day and 28% at 100 liter/person/day. In addition, the project is expected to impact the villages'
economy as follows:
3   It was clear to villagers that despite the reduced water costs, more consumption is anticipated.
3   An increase in land value is also foreseen.
3   The connectivity to water network will encourage local businesses and small scale industry.
3   Increase agricultural production for local market consumption due to a shift in utilizing harvested
rainwater for drinking purposes to agriculture.
Reduced costs related to medical care due to improved hygiene is also anticipated.
C) Social:
The lack of water is considered as cause of social problems in the villages. It leads people to look for other
sources which gives the chance for tank drivers to exploit people socially (begging), healthily and
economically.
The coming project's impact would:
*   Limit internal immigration from villages to cities.
*   Stabilize the social conditions, i.e. marriage, maintaining the extended family.
* Ensure social equity in water distribution.
*   Improve relation between communities and VC in decision making, consultation, participation, etc.
* Improve standards of living through creating employment opportunities during project
implementation.
*   Develop internal social relations between the different age groups through participating in promotional
activities.
*   Expose people to the usage of modern technology related to water. (washing machine, filters, etc.)
- 85 -



D) Agriculture:
*   Since the supplied water from the network will be for domestic purposes, harvested rainwater will be
used for developing domestic agriculture.
* Privately owned wells, previously used for supplying drinking water, would be used to develop the
agricultural land.
*   Improve farmning and cattle raising.
Negative Aspects
There were no significant negative consequences from the project. However, it is anticipated that the water
connectivity would naturally increase water consumption and therefore increase expenditures on water.
Additionally, privately run water transportation businesses would likely be affected due to the new
networks. No detailed investigations were carried out to determine the level of this impact on the truck
owners and their families.
Stakeholders' Concerns
One major concern that was identified is related to Israeli control over the source of water (water wells
situated in the West Bank) and the quantities to be supplied to the Palestinian communities. It is thought
that water would be used by the Israelis as a pressure tool on the Palestinian Authority and therefore be cut
off whenever political differences occur.
Report Summary
As a result of the social assessment of MIDP-2, the following table summarizes suggested actions for each
location based on the findings and communities recommendations.
Name of Project        Location                                   Suggested Action
ManaerP n. An*  Connect the village with additional water source, through involving VC in project
Main Water Pipeline        1. Anin           design.
to North - Westerndein
Jenio Nortblestern                        *  Maintain the cisterns to be utilized for agricultural use and stand by.
Jenmn Villages                            *  Develop a clear monitoring system for future water consumption.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amount/person/day).
*  Connect the village with additional water source on continuous bases.
2. Al-Araqa     *  Follow up street maintenance after implementation of the project.
*  Involve VC, local community and NGO's in the project design.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water(amount/person/day).
3 . Al.Hamh    *  Ensure connecting their community with water through consulting VC about the
3. AI-Hashimiyeh      source of water and project design Conduct water tests for the cisterns and tanks.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amount/person/day).
4. Al-Yamun      *  Ensure connecting their community with water.
*  Involve the VC in the project design.
* Conduct water tests for the cisterns and tanks
*  Contract local companies in implementing the project.
*  Focus on sewage network as the future infrastructural project
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amount/person/day).
- 86 -



5. Kufr Dan     *  Ensure connecting their community with water.
*  Conduct water tests for the cisterns and tanks
*  Focus on sewage network, sanitation and roads as future infrastructural projects.
*  Involve local community in identifying their priorities and needs.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amountfpersonlday).
6. Kufr Qud      *  Connect the village with additional water source.
*  Maintain the cisterns to be utilized for agricultural use.
*  Connect the village with electricity network.
*  Involve the VC in the project design and management.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amount/person/day).
7. Rummaneh      *  Ensure connecting their community with additional water.
* Conduct water tests for the cisterns and tanks.
*  Focus on sewage network, sanitation and roads as future infrastructural projects.
*  Involve local community in identifying their priorities and needs.
* Maintain the cisterns and springs.
*  Consider population growth in the project design.
*  Contract local companies in carrying out the project.
*  Employ local unskilled labors.
*  Provide land prior to project implementation.
*  Mobilize local NGO's as partners in the project.
Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the availability of
water(amountlperson/day).
8. Sileh El-       I Ensure connecting their community with water.
Harthiyeh   *  Involve the VC in the project design.
Harthiyeh       *  Conduct water tests for the cisterns and tanks.
*  Contract local companies in implementing the project.
*  Focus on sewage network, sanitation and roads as future infrastructural projects.
*  Follow up of contractors, closely.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water(amount/person/day).
9. T'enek       *  Ensure connecting their community with water source.
*  Conduct water tests for the cisterns and tanks.
*  Involve local community in identifying their priorities and needs.
* Maintain the cisterns.
*  Consider the socioeconomic situation for local communities in deciding the
percentage of contribution.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amountlperson/day).
10. Taybeh      *  Ensure connecting their community with water source. Involve local community in
identifying their priorities and needs.
*  Consider the socioeconomic situation for local communities in deciding the
percentage of contribution.
*  Consider population growth in the project design.
*  Ensure the revenue of the project for the VC.
*  Mobilize the role of VC in coordination with MLG.
*  Equity in distributing projects among the villages.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amount/person/day).
- 87 -



I11. Zbuba.     *  Ensure connecting their community with water source. (with caution to source)
*  Consider the socioeconomic situation for local communities in deciding the
percentage of contribution.
*  Consider population growth in the project design..
*  Supervise the contractor's work.
* Complete the internal Water Network to connect the excluded houses.
*  Focus on sewage network, electricity, roads and agricultural roads as future
infrastructural projects.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amount/person/day).
Awarta Water project  Awartao*  Ensure connecting their community with water source. Consider the
Awarta Water project       Awarta            socioeconomic situation for local communities in deciding the percentage of
contribution.
*  Consider population growth in the project design.
*  Supervise the contractors work closely.
*  Focus on sewage network, develop electricity intemal network, agricultural roads
and schools as future projects.
* Ensure powerful role for PWA in controlling water source.
*  Employ and train local personnel to sustain the project.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the
availability of water (amount/person/day).
*  Ensure connecting their community with water.
Faqua Water project        Faqua          *  Consult the VC in the project design.
* Conduct water tests for the cisterns and tanks.
*  Focus on sewage network, and roads as future infrastructural projects.
*  Conduct awareness campaign on the role of PWA.
e  Mobilize local NGO's as partners in the project.
Conduct awareness campaign on water consumption and importance of the availability of
water(amountlperson/day).
General Recommendations
Specific recommendations presented target specific issues on the "Summary of Findings". They are not
prescriptive by nature but are based on the field fmdings and are aimed at creating better impact for the
MIDP-2 on target population.
Specific recommendations are included under project design for PWA, VC and World Bank, and this will
be followed by the sustainability:
A) Project design Recommendation
ImplementingAgencv (Palestinian Water Authority):
Ensure updated plans to consider the population growth and changes on the ground.
Ensure VC and beneficiary participation in the project inception, design, construction planning and
during construction.
Ensure consultation with VC and beneficiaries regarding type and percentage of participation.
Ensure adequate public awareness and education targeting adults, children, and women. The carnpaign
should properly address the following topics:
*   Water usage and health
* Effects of waste water
*   Water cost
*   Project cycle
*   Sustainability
*  Role of PWA & VC
- 88 -



*   Beneficiary contributions
* Ensure adequate supervision during construction.
* Ensure involvement or consultation of local companies in project design.
* Ensure general health condition of wells and water connections.
* Ensure employment of local NGO's programs.
*   To ensure strong ownership, consultants must discuss with recipients their priorities and
concems and incorporate them in the designs.
*   Improve coordination mechanism with donors.
Villa2e Council:
The role of VC:
*   Ensure local community contribution (land/aerial survey, land, in kind, financial)
* Ensure monitoring the project implementation during construction.
*   Ensure local communities participation in solving problems, before, during and after the project
implementation.
*  Facilitation of awareness campaigns related to water.
*  Identification of local NGO's who could carry out water related activities.
The World Bank:
The role of World Bank:
Ensure designing an effective monitoring system.
Ensure timeline of project implementation.
*   Ensure community consultation prior to project inception.
*   Ensure communicative reporting system, before, during and after the project.
*   Ensure promotional projects of NGO's as extension to the water project.
*   Ensure coordination with other donors working in the same geographical area in the same sector.
B) Sustainability
The project should adopt proper mechanism to ensure its sustainability, including:
=  Ensure close coordination and consultation between donors, VC and PWA.
=   The project design should take into consideration population growth and possible economic
development.
*   VC and PWA  should prepare operation, management and maintenance plans to ensure
sustainability. Related costs should be clearly identified in the project document. The project
document should also address:
* Water cost from source
* Network and pump station maintenance and running expenses
* Management and administrative cost
* Capacity building and training
VC and PWA should promote transparency through:
* Opening a special bank account for the project
* Ensure a clear system of fee collection
*   Ensure periodical financial reporting and auditing
- 89 -



Impact of the SA Study
The impact of the SA Study was:
*   Better understanding of people's priorities in these villages.
*   Better understanding of the World Bank role.
* Better understanding of the objectives of the project.
*   Better understanding of beneficiary's willingness to contribute to the project implementation.
*   Better understanding of the VC and PWA role.
- 90 -



Additional
Annex No.: 16
WEST BANK AND GAZA
SECOND MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
A. Background
1.  Introduction. The MIDP-2 project will build on the achievements and experience of MIDP-1,
and will continue to focus on high priority infrastructure rehabilitation and  encourage further
municipal reform and increase capacity building within the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) and
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). In addition to the municipalities that were served in MIDP-1,
this project will tackle six new selected municipalities: Jabalia, Khan Younis (Gaza), Tulkarem, Al
Ram, Jericho and Tarqumia (West Bank). Similar to MIDP-1, MIDP-2 will continue to work with
Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) on water related sub-projects.
2. Environmental Category. The proposed project supports environmental improvements through
rehabilitation of roads and water supply systems in the West Bank and Gaza. Potential adverse
environmental impacts have been summarized in Table 1. These risks can be effectively anticipated in
advance of project implementation and addressed by direct mitigation activities in the design, planning
and construction process. Since most of the investment activities to be supported by the proposed
Project deal with rehabilitation/improvements of existing infrastructure, and since the projects do not
involve issues such as land acquisition or resettlement, the project is rated a category "B" in
accordance with World Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (January 1998) and requires the preparation and
implementation of an Environmental Management plan (EMP).
3. Investment Components. The $17 million project will consist of the following main components:
One) Improve Infrastructure Services ($14 million): - roads (73%) and water networks (9%):
Implementation of infrastructure projects, costing between US$0.2 million and US$2.8 million each,
identified by LGUs and implemented through MPW and PWA in coordination with MLG. Such works
will mainly include rehabilitation and improvement of existing roads, and to a far lesser extent
rehabilitation of existing water networks.
Two) Strengthen local and central municipal capacity ($2.5 million): Investment and development
programming, improving accounting systems, revenue mobilization, management and service delivery
(12%); and build the institutional capacity of the MPW (3%) with regard to road maintenance
program, planning, programming and project development, management and monitoring. Subcontract
agreements with qualified firms or individuals to provide training to MPW, MLG and LGUs to ensure
good quality.
Three) Incremental Operational Support ($0.5 million): Supplemental operating costs for MLG
and MPW, including vehicles, communications and other equipment, beneficiary impact studies
needed by the implementing agency for project execution and management.
- 91 -



4.   Institutional Structure. The MIDP-2 project will be coordinated and implemented through the
MPW in close cooperation with MLG. Rehabilitation of water networks falls under the mandate of the
PWA.
5. The Ministry of Environmental Affairs (MEnA) is in the early stages of developing environmental
policies that allow monitoring of road construction and renovation. As such, they do not at present
have the institutional know-how or the capacity, to supervise the MIDP-2 project or inspect the sites to
enforce regulations. Therefore, the project will support the establishment of a MIDP project team that
consists of a dedicated staff member of MEnA and MPW. Both employees will be working closely
with local municipal engineers and sector ministries to ensure the development and enforcement of
guidelines to mitigate the environmental impacts of the proposed sub-projects. As the Bank and other
bilateral donors are already contributing to capacity building at MEnA and MLG, the main focus of the
technical assistance activities with respect to environmental protection will focus on MPW. The
technical assistance will make use of lessons learned from the MIDP-1 and CDP I project, and the
expert advisor/trainer will work closely with MEnA to develop guidelines relevant to the MIDP-2
activities.
6.  Environmental Audit of projects under MIDP I. A rapid environmental audit was conducted
on a sample of projects implemented under MIDP-1. The findings showed that for the most part, the
projects contributed to positive environmental impacts. The positive impacts with regard to road
rehabilitation included the following: road and sidewalk projects reduced amount of dust, increased
road safety, drainage has been improved, all municipal roads rehabilitation included (where
appropriate) installation of sewers and street lightning, and most obstacles have been removed from the
public right of way. Tree planting especially in the Gaza municipality will rapidly improve the quality
of life in the urban areas. Nevertheless, the audit also identified areas needing improvements. In
various locations garbage containers are blocking part of the road, traffic signs are not adequate
considering the increase in vehicular speeds after road have been rehabilitated. Main pedestrian
crossings, especially near schools and cross roads need to made safe. The quality of paint used for
road marks is often inferior. Semi urban and rural roads shoulders could be planted with trees which
will strengthen the shoulders and have a general positive environmental impact. It was noted that the
road maintenance program needs a stronger emphasis on environment issues, in particular with respect
to road cleaning. More attention is needed in design and construction of shoulders outside the cities. On
various location shoulders were to narrow or blocked. Though the improvement of drainage has been a
major focus of attention of MIDP-1, its importance can not be underestimated and will need special
attention due to the topography, especially in the West Bank. Random garbage disposal is the most
frequent recorded environmental problem associated with the roads.
B. Environmental Management Plan
7.   Environment Management Plan. The EMP has been prepared to integrate environmental
concems into the design and implementation of the proposed MIDP-2 Project. It would support: a)
site-specific environmental screening of road rehabilitation and environmental assessment of water
network projects; b) training staff/contractors involved in Project implementation; c) monitoring and
evaluation of mitigation measures identified during site-specific reviews; d) and involvement of the
public in monitoring environmental impact during and after road construction, through the distribution
of a complaint form to municipalities and village councils. All activities related to the EMP will be
closely coordinated with MEnA, MPW and PWA.
- 92 -



8.   Site specific Environmental Screening, Review and Assessment. The screening and review
process will be conducted in close cooperation with MEnA, MPW and PWA. Environmental review of
projects will be conducted by special appointed staff member of MPW. She/he will be assisted by a
counterpart of MEnA. Sub-projects that have been earmarked will be subjected to detailed site review
and implementation of construction work will be closely monitored. A standard appraisal/mitigation
form will be part of the specific specifications for the contractor, and will form the basis of regular
monitoring by both the contractor and the MPW staff. The form will consist of, but in no way limited
to: a) current environmental problems; b) potential environmental impacts, if any, due to the project; c)
mitigation measures; and d) schedule. Table 2 is an example of such form based on the rapid three day
appraisal of the projects, and will the basis for further development by MPW. As all projects are only
concerned with rehabilitation, no unrecorded archaeological sites are expected to be uncovered.
Nevertheless, special attention must be paid to historic sites. Accordingly, "chance find" procedures
will be established in close coordination with the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities.
As for the proposed water projects which will be implemented through the Palestinian Water Authority
(PWA), a site specific environmental assessment will be performed. The purpose of such assessment
will be to ensure that cross contamination from sewage septic tanks and cesspools and other sources is
avoided.
9.   Strengthening Environmental Expertise through MIDP-2. Environmental expertise will be
established within MPW for the coordination and supervision of environmental activities funded
through the MIDP II project. The expert will work in close coordination with MEnA and would: a)
conduct environmental reviews of projects and monitoring; b) coordinate environmental training
activities for staff, engineers and contractors; and c) conduct site visits to review progress. The
MIDP-2 Unit will be supported where necessary by a part time expert environmental advisor,
contracted through a local consulting firm.
10.  Environmental Capacity Building and Training Program. Since there is limited capacity to
undertake such actions within MEnA, the training program would be designed and implemented with
assistance of local or intemational consultants. The training would target three levels:
One) On-the-job training of a dedicated MPW and MEnA staff member to direct road design,
planning, implementation and maintenance with respect to environmental protection;
Two) Training for staff of sector ministries involved in the project, including one of two day
seminars on environmental awareness and other specific environmental aspects related to design and
implementation of roads rehabilitation and water supply networks. The training will be open to staff of
MEnA, cooperating sector Ministries and participating local government units (LGUs); and
Three) Training for contractors would be provided, including one or two day workshops for local
contractors, focusing on: use of environmental guidelines; implementation of mitigation measures; use
of natural materials (stones) for road marking and (erosion) prevention; road safety for construction
workers; proper waste disposal and cleaning measures during construction.
11.  Project monitoring. All projects will be subjected to site specific environmental screening and
review process conducted by the MPW approx. 4 times a year. This process would minimize
site-specific environmental impacts. A monitoring plan is shown in Table 2.
- 93 -



12. Reporting. The environmental staff member of MPW would prepare bi-annual reports outlining
progress of EMP implementation. The reports would include project findings (lessons learned);
environmental issues, if any; status of the mitigation measures taken and next steps, if any. The reports
would be submitted to the MEnA and the World Bank as part of the progress report.
13.       Project Supervision.   The  environmental issues including  mitigation  measures would  be
supervised by staff of the World Bank resident mission. Progress on mitigation measures will be
included in regular Bank supervision reports including the Project Status report (PSR) updates, the
mid-term reviews.
14.      EMP  Cost Estimate and  Schedule.  It is estimated that EMP  implementation  would cost
US$90,000 for staff, consultants, training activities and site specific assessment and protection,
presented in Table 3. EMP implementation would be integrated into the overall schedule for, the
proposed project and a preliminary schedule for key activities is provided as Table 4. The budget and
implementation schedule for the EMP would be discussed and agreed upon with the Borrower.
Table 1 - General Potential Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures
Current Problems            Potential Impacts                 Mitigation Measures                             Responsible Agency
1. Roads Rehabilitation
a). Dumping of construction   Safety hazard                   Public awareness road signs                      MEnA; MPW
waste and garbage by road                                     Guard rails at potential dumping locations (valleys)
users.                                                        Decentralized small legal dumping sites
Uncontrolled dumping by contractors Guidelines in general specifications for contractors    MPW
Dangers to road construction      Guidelines in general specifications for contractors    MPW
Workers
b.) Roads passing close to  Increased traffic speed           Public awareness; stringent traffic control;     MPW, police and private sector
schools
c). Narrow intersections                                      Widening of road; improved road marking, extra lane MPW
Uprooting of trees                Replanting of trees                         . MEnA, MPW and municipalities
d). Lack of knowledge of    Risk of damage to historic and    'chance find' procedures                         MPW, MEnA
historical sites and cultural    natural landscape            Training for contractors; public awareness raising  Min of Tourism & Antiquities
sites.                                                        through road signs referrng to
e) Unprotected steep shoulders Safety hazard and accelerated soil   Installation of guard rails with reflectors and proper   MPW
erosion                           compaction of shoulders.
d) Erosion as result of     Clogging of drainage ditches      Construction and maintenance of drainage ditches    MPW, municipalities
improper drainage
e) Blockage of road by      Safety hazard                     Special container parking                        municipalities
garbage containers
2. Water Supply
a). Water contamination as    Public health hazard            Avoidance of cross contamination                 PWA
result of pipe corrosion and
leakages.
b.) Improper sewage and     Sanitation insufficient to deal with   Increase the separation of wastewater and populated   MEnA, PWA.
sludge disposal             increased water consumption. Public  areas in the short term.
health hazard
-94 -



Table 2 - Specific Potential Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures
Rd. #                             km   $ in  Potential Impacts    Mitigation Measures       Monitoring       Responsible
mill.                                              Frequency during  Agency
Implementation
(G2) Khan Yours - Rafah coastal    10   1.5  Potential negative    Develop to preserve the  Four times       MEnA
road                                    impacts on beaches   authentic character
and coastal areas.    surrounding. The Plan should
feed into the coastal zone
management plan.
G3   main road #4 through Gaza     7    0.5  none                                           Semi-annual      MPW
Strip                                                                                                  MEnA
(G4) el Bahar - Sudania road       4    0.6  Encroachment         Compensation to land owners Four times     MPW
G5   Mirag road                    3    0.3  Leakage from         Reduction in leakages     Four times       Min. of
irrigation supply pipes                                       Agriculture
________ _  resulting in erosion.
G9   Road # I Sheikh Radwan       1.2   0.8  Public safety due to   Propose widening side walks Four times   Mun. Gaza
I_narrow side walk
G10  Sofa intersection - Rafah entry  4.5   0.3  none                                       Semi-annual      MPW
point road                                                                                             MEnA
GII  Jamal Abdel Nasser str.       3    2.8  none                                           Semi-annual      MPW
Khan Younis                                                                                            MEnA
JI    Zabda - Barta'a              5    0.5   Danger of destruction Plans to develop and preserve Four times  MPW
of very old olive trees; the authentic character               MEnA
uncontrolled garbage surrounding; compensation
_____________________   Xdumping;          for land owners
J6   Jaba'a intersection to Sanour    5    0.8  none              none                      Semi-annual      MPW
intersection
J9   Jenin - Haifa road           10   1.0  none                  none                      Semi-annual      MPW
J1O   Bathan - Qabatia road        10   0.4  uncontrolled garbage  Plans to prevent uncontrolled Four times  MPW
______________dumping  |as per Table I
- 95 -



Rd. #                              km    $ in  Current Specific     Mitigation Measures        Monitoring       Responsible
mill.  Problems                                      Frequency during  Agency
Potential Impacts                             Implementation
NI   Northem entrance Nablus        I    1.0  none                                             Semi-annual       MPW
MEnA
N2   Yasied - Beit Emrin road      2.5   0.2  none                              _              Semi-annual       MPW
N5   Bathan - Qabatia road          15    0.6  Soil erosion         Special program to prevent   Four times      MPW
Damage to water pipe garbage dumping (see table                  MEnA
line                1.) contractor should be held
Uncontrolled garbage responsible for damage of
dumping             water pipe and water losses
T I   Shawaika - Baqa road          15    0.8  Weak eastem          Safeguard natural drainage   Four times     MPW
shoulders          flow of the wadi.
blockage of natural
drainage
T3    Azun - Masha road             10    1.0  Removal of trees     Replanting of trees,       Four times        MPW
Steep shoulders     compaction of shoulders and
Uncontrolled garbage special program to prevent
dumping             garbage dumping (see table
1.)
T5    Deir al Ghsoun by-pass        3    0.6   Destruction of olive   Protection of Olive grooves   Four times  MPW
groove              where feasible and in other                  MEnA
cases a plan for replanting
olive trees.
RI   Nileen - Budrus - Qibya -     13.5   1.0   Destruction of trees   Protection of trees where  Four times    MPW
Shuqba - Shibtin road                                        feasible and plan for                        MEnA
I____I _______     replanting trees.
R3   al-Bireh northern entrance     2    0.7  None                                             Semi-annual      MPW
MEnA
R4   Bitounia main road             3    0.2  None                                             Semi-annual       MPW
MEnA
H2   Sureef - Beit Awa - Beit      30    2.1   None                                            Semi-annual      MPW
Marsam road                                                                                               MEnA
H3   al-Samoua access road          5    0.25  None                                            Semi-annual      MPW
=  _ _ _ _ _ _ ___                                                       ._ _ _ _ _    MEnA
114  I a] Samoua - Yatta road      5.5    0.5   None                                           Semi-annual      MPW
- 96 -



Table 3 - EMP Cost Estimates
Components of EMP                                  LQ        Unit Rate         -    Cost in US5'000
Total   Foreign      Local
Environmental Expert hired in MPW for 2 Years       24 MM   $1 500/MM        36        0.0        36
Capacity Building and Training
(a) Training for MPW staff, MEnA and Sector Ministries  8       $4000        24        10         24
Seminars/Workshops
(b) Training for contractors                           8        $2000        16                   16
Environmental Assessment for water projects (PWA will   1       $5000        5         0.0         5
issue a lump sum contract to perform this task)
Contingency budget for archaeological chance find support                    4                     4
from Palestinian Department of Archaeology 
Miscellaneous                                                 _     __       S                     5 5
TOTAL                                              I      _         _        90        10         80
Table 4 - EMP Implementation Schedule
(tentative)
Major Project Activities                   Sep  Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May  Jun  Jul  Aug
_____________ __    00   00  00   00   01  01  01  01  O0    01   01    01
1. Hiring of Environmental Specialist                                                 x
2. Capacity Building and Training:
a) training for staff within implementing agency
and Sector Ministries - Seminars/Workshops        x                             x
b) training for contractors
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~ ~~~x                      x
3. Contingency budget for archeological chance
find support from Palestinian Department of  x    x    x    x    x   x   x   x    x    x    x    x
Archeology
- 97 -



Additional
Annex No.: 17
Detailed Estimates: Project Costs, Procurement and Disbursement
17 (a) Detailed Project Costs
Project Cost by Component                   Local    Foreign    Total    Total*    IDA        Govt    Cofin
US$ m     US$ m    US$ m    US$ m    US$ m    US$ m    US$ m
I. Civil Works:                              7.40      10.30     17.70     21.2      3.5       3.6      14.1
a) Roads                                     6.30      8.80      15.10     18.1      2.8       3.1      12.2
i) West Bank & Gaza Roads                  5.10      8.80      13.90     16.9      2.0      2.9       12.0
ii) Design & Supervision                   1.20       0.00      1.20      1.2      0.8       0.2       0.2
b) Water & Sanitation                        1.10      1.50      2.60      3.1       0.7       0.5      1.9
i) West Bank Water & Sanitation            0.90      1.50      2.40      2.9       0.5       0.5      1.9
ii) Design & Supervision                   0.20       0.00      0.20      0.2       0.2      0.0       0.0
II. Capacity Building:                       1.20      2.70      3.90      4.4       3.7       0.7      0.0
a) MPW                                       0.40      1.10      1.50       1.9      1.6       0.3      0.0
i) Road Maintenance Program                0.30       0.50      0.80      1.0      0.8       0.2       0.0
ii) Software & Systems Support              0.00      0.10      0.10      0.1       0.1       0.0      0.0
iii) Training Support                       0.00       0.10      0.10      0.1       0.1      0.0       0.0
iv) Environmental Monitoring Unit           0.00       0.10      0.10      0.1       0.1      0.0       0.0
v) Equipment (Computers, copiers, etc.)     0.00      0.10      0.10      0.1       0.1       0.0      0.0
vi) Vehicles                                0.10       0.20      0.30      0.5       0.4      0.1       0.0
b) MLG                                       0.80      1.60      2.40       2.5      2.1       0.4      0.0
i) Accounting Systems Reform               0.20      0.50      0.70      0.7       0.6.      0.1      0.0
a. Software & Systems                    0.20       0.20      0.40      0.4      0.3       0.1       0.0
b. Implementation                        0.00       0.10      0.10      0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0
c. Equipment (mostly computers)          0.00       0.10      0.10      0.1      0.1       0.0       0.0
d. Vehicles                              0.00       0.10      0.10      0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0
ii) 3-Yr Municipal Investment Plans (6 SMs)  0.60    1.10      1.70      1.8       1.5       0.3      0.0
a. Consultants                           0.50      0.90      1.40      1.5       1.2      0.3       0.0
b. Studies                               0.00      0.10      0.10      0.1       0.1      0.0       0.0
c. Training                              0.10      0.00      0.10      0.1       0.1      0.0       0.0
d. Equipment (mostly computers)          0.00       0.10      0.10      0.1      0.1       0.0       0.0
Ill. Incr. Oper. Expenses:                   0.30      0.10      0.40      0.4       0.3       0.1      0.0
a) MPW                                       0.10      0.00      0.10      0.1       0.1       0.0      0.0
i) Accounting, Auditing & Reporting        0.10       0.00      0.10      0.1      0.1       0.0       0.0
ii) Software & Training Support             0.00      0.00      0.00      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
iii) Operational expenses                   0.00       0.00      0.00      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
b) MLG                                       0.20      0.10      0.30       0.3      0.2       0.1      0.0
i) Accounting, Auditing & Reporting        0.10       0.10      0.20      0.2      0.2       0.0       0.0
ii) Software & Training Support             0.05      0.00      0.05      0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0
iii) Operational expenses                   0.05       0.00      0.05      0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Baseline Cost                          8.90      13.10     22.00     26.00     7.5       4.4      14.1
Physical Contingencies                       1.10      1.70      2.80      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.40      0.80       1.20     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Prolect Costs                         10.40      15.60     26.00    26.00      7.48     4.42     14.10
Total Financing Required                     10.4      15.6      26.0      26.0      7.5       4.4      14.1
* Includes Contingencies. Totals may not add because of rounding.
- 98 -



17 (b) Detailed Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Project Cost by Category                             ICB            NCB           Other          NBF           Total
1. Works                                             0.0             2.9           0.1            16.8          19.8
(0-0)          (2.4)         (0.1)          (0.0)         (2.5)
a) MPW                                              0.0             2.3           0.1           14.5           16.9
(0.0)          (1.9)         (0.1)          (0.0)         (2.0)
b) PWA                                              0.0             0.6           0.0            2.3           2.9
(0.0)          (0.5)         (0.0)          (0.0)         (0.5)
2. Goods                                              0.0            1.0            OA            0.0            1.4
(0.0)          (0.8)         (OA)           (0.0)         (1.2)
a) MPW                                              0.0            0.5            0.2           0.0           0.7
(0.0)          (0.4)         (0.2)          (0.0)         (0.6)
b) MLG                                              0.0            0.5            0.2           0.0           0.7
(0.0)          (0.4)         (0.2)          (0:0)         (0.6)
3. Services                                           0.0            0.0            4.0           OA            4A
(0.0)          (0.0)         (3.5)          (0-0)         (3.5)
a) MPW                                              0.0            0.0            2.0           0.4           2.4
(0.0)          (0.0)         (1.8)          (0.0)         (1.8)
b) MLG                                              0.0             0.0           1.8            0.0           1.8
(0.0)          (0.0)          (1.5)         (0.0)         (1.5)
c) PWA                                              0.0             0.0           0.2            0.0           0.2
(0.0)          (0.0)         (0.2)          (0.0)         (0.2)
4. Incr. Op. Expenses                                 0.0            0.0            0.4           0.0            0.4
(0-0)          (0.0)         (0.3)          (0.0)         (0.3)
a) MPW                                              0.0            0.0            0.1           0.0           0.1
(0.0)          (0.0)         (0.1)          (0.0)         (0.1)
b) MLG                                              0.0             0.0           0.3            0.0           0.3
(0.0)          (0.0)         (0.2)          (0.0)         (0.2)
Total                                                 0.0            3.9            4.9           17.2          26.0
IDA Total                                            (0.0)           (3.2)         (4.3)         (0.0)          (7.5)
- 99 -



17 (c) Allocation of Credit Proceeds (includes "Unallocated")
Category                                                Amount in           Financing %
US$m
(1)  Civil Works                                                               85%
(a) MPW                                                1.80
(b) PWA                                                0.45
(2) Goods                                                                  100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
(a) MPW                                                0.54
(b) MLG                                                0.54
(3)    Consultants' Services and Training                                 100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
(a) MPW                                                             of local expenditures
1.62
(b) MLG
1.35
(4)    Consultants' Services, PWA                          0.18            100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
(5) Incremental Operating Costs                                                85%
(a) MPW                                                0.09
(b) MLG                                                0.18
(6) Unallocated                                            0.75
TOTAL                                                      7.50
- 100-



17 (d) Estimated Disbursements
(Annual)
Yr I       Yr.2       Yr. 3      Yr.4        Yr. 5      Total
FY 2001    FY 2002    FY 2003    FY 2004    FY 2005
Total                       2.2        6.7        10.8        5.3        1.0        26.0
IDA                         1.3        2.5        2.7         1.0        0.0         7.5
Non- IDA                    0.9        4.2         8.1        4.3        1.0        18.5
Govt.                       0.4        1.1         1.9        0.9        0.1         4.4
Cofinancing                 0.5        3.1         6.2        3.4        0.9        14.1
(( ummulative)
Yr I       Yr.2       Yr.3       Yr.4        Yr. 5      Total
FY 2001    FY 2002    FY 2003    FY 2004    FY 2005
Total                       2.2        8.9        19.7       25.0        26.0       26.0
IDA                         1.3        3.8         6.5        7.5        7.5         7.5
Non- IDA                    0.9        5.1        13.2        17.5       18.5       18.5
Govt.                       0.4        1.5         3.4        4.3        4.4         4.4
Cofinancine                 0.5        3.6         9.8       13.2        14.1       14.1
MIDP-2: Disbursement
30.0
25.0
|   ..                                          | +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total
20.0                    -:otA
~IDA
15.0
-Non- IDA
10.0    _                                                           Govt.
5.0                            ~Cofinancing
0.0
FY 2001   FY 2002   FY 2003   FY 2004   FY 2005
fIDA Financial Yr
- 101 -






34X1V   ,lk  #  <Y ,. 35O0     <;>35,                     N 2920                 390  ~
WEST BANK
I.                                                                          K C ......   \   !    e\   1~tx  ~~ ,1~'~\_,   j   }   <  and
(7V  8   0430                   GAZA
.Ya ba&               >''                                    3               AIRPORTS /AIRFIELDS
=   MAJORHIGHWAYS
TWO OR MORE LANES,
*4             1- I 3 6-   sHARD SURFACED ROADS
.  1t Z  sr,\S n>  t '-'   RAILROADS
ljubas
BUILT-UPAREAS
/.$  t7   t   t .    t  V        P  ,   i   4,Tammun    ,  F            'i  UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
f;   ~   -~   N0tIu0 ("%  '>                                .o r    ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
-     ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
r-i  NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
3m010  LJ  ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
ii     _**_rJERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
4T                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
i                   t          t           & -     .  .    4      _',    Z -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A ISRAEL                     <   <   \ EB A N- K                                            O.
0     ~ 5           't     '- pi   vMEDITEORIA NEAN  .
4<>                     ~~~~~~~~~~SEA  -
* /                            -           {;      AIBwah>--A                     /               -t   _:4A l Birah                             JORDAN
I,   WES
< <> Jericloy< 5                                        BANK
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   -                                          c  ii $0 / 
[GZ- ISRAEL /
,/ z   r;7AZA,
MEDITERRANEAN
10  0    '      S~~EAD                             E
_ A                    MILL50        9          1       <                 .  31>3       -    G   A      Z A*
~~~~\    J-t  ~~~~Th.bon""do,  oniolsvvo 400F00'Cd07orhkAuoooo0o  /-                   320'         oh      Acnl5        X               15  39g
0   F-F-l-> ~                               10M
103 str -ii .\  95   rd0@t010N0sss200 o   /          ssOr               ;\   \         4<         >         SRAEL
hor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/k                                                                         03
6-                                                                                                                                        o
B1  INN"c   F-4  35                      00320                                       90 _                                             1   -~ 



