Report No. PID7424
Project Name                     West Bank and Gaza-MIDP-II (+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Urban Management
Project ID                       XOPE58683
Borrower(s)                      PLO FOR BENEFIT OF PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRIES OF PUBLIC WORKS (MPW)
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT (MLG)
and Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
Ramallah
Contact Person: Ministry of Public Works -
Mr. Maher Ghnaim, Director
General
Tel: 02-2400771
Fax: 02-2400771
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                January 13, 2000,   updated April 17, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 1, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 30, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The most relevant sector issues are:Infrastructure Rehabilitation:
Reducing the backlog; improving accessibility; preserving existing assets;
establishing a sound strategic framework for development; and developing a
sustainable system for managing and financing improvements;Local
Governance and Service Delivery: Rationalizing central and local
government roles and responsibilities; developing an efficient, legal and
institutional and fiscal and financial framework; and strengthening
investment and maintenance programming, finance, management and service
delivery capacity.Govt. Strategy: While the PA has yet to develop a fully
coherent strategy in any of the above areas, the 1998-2000 Palestinian
Development Plan (PDP) presented to the December 1998 CG in Paris is an
important step in this right direction. Rehabilitation and improvement of
infrastructure are critical objectives of the PDP, together with
increasing reliance on the private sector and improving governance. Under
MIDP, MLG is working to develop a strategy and a framework for the local
government sector, and work has begun by The Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation (MOPIC) and MPW on developing a strategy for the
roads and transport sector. The latter is being supported by the Bank,
and a Bank supported a transport sector study is in the advanced stages of
preparation.
2. Objectives
MIDP-2 is a follow-on project. It utilizes the framework and builds on
the initiatives of the on-going Municipal Infrastructure Development
Project (MIDP-1, FY96). The latter focuses on high priority infrastructure
rehabilitation as well as municipal reform and capacity building. The
infrastructure component focuses on the rehabilitation and improvement of



roads, drainage, water and sewerage systems in major towns and villages in
Gaza and the West Bank. The capacity building component has a national as
well as a local dimension. The national dimension focuses on systemic
legal, institutional and financial reform involving, for example, such
issues as: decentralization (central/local relationships); revenue
mobilization and sharing; regional investment programming; and the role,
structure and capacity of the Ministry of Local Government (MLG). The
local (municipal) dimension focuses on improving financial planning and
management; modernizing accounting systems; improving revenue mobilization
and cost recovery; strengthening service delivery; preserving existing
infrastructural assets; and rationalizing roles and responsibilities
(including commercializing and privatizing service provision). These
local reforms are being piloted in five selected municipalities or SMs:
Nablus, Jenin, Hebron (West Bank), Gaza and Rafah (Gaza).1/    1/   MIDP-2
also complements the Bethlehem 2000 project (FY '99) which supports
similar institutional reforms in the five Bethlehem Area Municipalities
(Bethlehem, B. Sahour, B. Jala, Doha and Khader).The proposed project,
(MIDP-2), focuses on continued high priority infrastructure rehabilitation
and municipal capacity building. But it will also begin capacity building
and infrastructure maintenance programming in one new ministry (MPW), and
will tackle reforms in six new SMs: Jabalia, Khan Younis (Gaza) and
Tulkarem, Al Ram, Jericho and Taqumia (West Bank). Background, MIDP-1:
MIDP-1 is proceeding satisfactorily. As of end-March 2000, 78 percent of
the available funding had been committed to some 238 physical
sub-projects, and 77 percent of this funding had been disbursed. The
infrastructure component is ahead of schedule. The more complex capacity
building component, as anticipated, is progressing much more slowly, due
largely to institutional weaknesses at MLG. Still, significant progress
is being made here. The SMs are beginning to prepare their three-year
investment and development plans, and the plans for the installation of
modern accrual-based accounting systems are well advanced. The software
has been selected, and system implementation is now in progress.
Following a lengthy review with MLG, the national component has been
restructured. This restructuring will strengthen the framework for reform
and provide better focus and support for the reform effort. A summary of
the reform program is presented in Annex (la). As appraised in FY97, the
MIDP-1 was part of a much larger overall program of high-priority
infrastructure rehabilitation and improvement and LG capacity building.
The estimated cost of this program was $160m. Because of its many other
commitments in WBG, the Bank was only able to fund $40m of this
requirement, leaving the program 75 percent unfunded. A number of donors,
notably Italy, Greece and OPEC have agreed to cofinance with the Bank, and
a few others (mainly EIB and EU) have shown some interest in providing
infrastructure support. However, the needs of the municipalities and
villages are great and even with this new interest funding for the sector
is most inadequate. Some 50 percent of the roads in Gaza and 40 percent
of the roads in the West Bank are either unpaved or below acceptable
service levels. Also, water consumption at 60 liters per capita, is far
below regional standards (for example: 137 in Jordan; 113 in Tunisia).
The problem is exacerbated by the wide geographical dipersion of the more
than 400 villages and village councils which house some 40 percent on the
population on the West Bank. Here the problems of accessibility and
reliable water supplies are particularly acute. Finally, few donors
(USAID being a notable exception) have shown serious interest in
institutional reform and capacity building at central or local levels; and
-2 -



other Bank infrastructure sector projects focus on reforms in specific
geographical areas or, as is the case of the Community Development Project
(CDP-1), on limited small scale interventions. Hence the continued need
for MIDP-1 and this follow-on project.Objectives, MIDP-2: The objective
of MIDP-2 is to continue the efforts begun under MIDP-1 to help: Improve
infrastructural services (roads, water, drainage and sewerage) to and
within villages and municipalities in WBG, and preserve existing
infrastructural assets;Build municipal and central governmental planing,
programming, financial, managerial and technical capacity.The
infrastructure component focuses mainly on strengthening the regional road
network thus improving village and municipal accessibility, particularly
in the West Bank. It also assists in rehabilitating and improving water
and sanitation services mainly within (but not limited to) villages and
municipalities in the Northern West Bank. This area is not currently
being served by other IDA-supported projects. The capacity building
component aims at continuing to strengthen MLG, and beginning to
strengthen six additional municipalities and MPW. Support for the latter
will focus on building systematic road maintenance programming
capability. Until recently MPW was too weak to play its role effectively
and road maintenance programming was non-existent. The proposed support
will help remedy this, and help lay a foundation for MPW's efficient
development. Strategy: The strategic framework for infrastructure
institutional reform and capacity building in the local government sector
is already well defined in the on-going MIDP-1. MIDP-2 utilizes this
framework to: continue the improvement of access to and infrastructure
within, the main towns and villages in WBG; preserve important
infrastructural assets; continue and deepen capacity building at MLG;
begin capacity building in another key infrastructural agency; and extend
the municipal reform and capacity building effort to an additional set of
municipalities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has been in the forefront of the donor effort to provide support
to the Palestinians and has led the way in infrastructure rehabilitation,
policy reform and capacity building. Under MIDP-1 a major reform
initiative is underway in the LG sector, and MIDP-1 now provides the
framework for all of MLG's institutional and policy reform and capacity
building initiatives. MIDP-2 continues these efforts, extending them to
new ministries and municipalities. The confidence reposed in the Bank 's
work by MLG and MPW is amply testified to in Section 4 above. Few donors
are willing or have the capacity and patience to do this work which is
vital to the sustainable development of the sectors involved. Here the
Bank is both indispensable and unrivaled. With respect to the road
maintenance programming, this represents the first real attempt by the PA
to begin to address the important infrastructure maintenance and recurrent
cost problem systematically -- an long neglected issue. Here the Bank is
again helping the PA to break new ground.
4. Description
I. Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement (US$21.2m)
A. Rehabilitation and improvement of regional road network, including
drainage and essential services (US$18.lm).
- 3-



B. Rehabilitation and improvement of village and municipal water supply
and sewerage networks (US$3.lm).
II. Capacity Building Support (US$4.4m)
A. Support to MPW for initiating systematic road maintenance (US$1.9m).
B. Support to MLG and SMs for continued SM investment and development
programming; improving accounting systems, revenue mobilization,
management and service delivery (US$2.5m).
III. Incremental Operational Expense Support (US$0.4m)
A. Support to MPW and MLG.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               4.4
IBRD
IDA                      7.5
SPECIAL FINANCING        14.1
Total Project Cost       26.0
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over a four (4) year period beginning
July 2000 and ending June 2004. The closing date would be December 31,
2004. Project implementation would be the joint responsibility of MPW,
PWA and MLG, with MLG playing the overall coordinating role.     MPW would
be responsible for the identification, preparation, implementation,
monitoring and reporting on the regional road component. The specific
roads have been selected in consultation with MLG and MOPIC. MPW would
also be responsible for road maintenance system development and
programming, and for its own capacity building components.     PWA would be
responsible for identification, preparation, implementation, accounting,
monitoring and reporting on the water and sanitation component. MLG would
be responsible for overall project, management, accounting, auditing,
monitoring and reporting. It would also be responsible for supporting and
overseeing the capacity building program at the local level. Support to
SMs would be provided by MLG's Capacity Building Unit (CBU) and the
Project Accounting Unit (PAU) already established under MIDP-1. The
stronger SMs would be encouraged and assisted to implement the subprojects
in their domains on their own, but within a framework established by MLG.
A summary of the implementation arrangements is presented in the table
below.
7. Sustainability
The legal and institutional, fiscal and financial, and managerial and
technical reforms being developed and implemented under MIDP-1 provides
the framework for this project (see Annex la and b). To the extent that
these reforms are successfully implemented, the sustainability of MID-2 is
assured. The main risks are associated with failure of MLG and MOF to
implement the MIDP-1 reforms noted above, and the SMs failure to implement
the reforms proposed in this project. Other risks are largely
implementation risks associated with lack of capacity at MLG and MPW and
political turmoil--all very real. (Risk mitigation measures are noted in
- 4 -



the table below.)RiskRisk RatingRisk Minimization MeasureFrom Outputs to
Objectivesl. Inability of MLG and MOF to prepare and monitor projects on
a timely basis.S Provide TA, close supervision and include dated
covenants.2. Delays due to border closures could significantly affect
timely completion of sub-projects.MAllow sufficient "slack" in
construction program and stockpile key construction materials.From
Components to Outputsl. Failure by SMs and MLG to take their reform
responsibilities seriously and to devote sufficient time and resources to
reform measures.SDeepen the dialogue with MLG; provide TA; undertake close
supervision; and include dated covenants.2. Insufficient financial and
managerial capacity at MLG and MPW.SProvide TA, a framework for reform,
training and operational support.Overall Risk RatingS
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
During the course of implementing projects in WBG, including the first
five in the Bank (IDA) Assistance Program, the following key lessons have
been learned: There must be strong ownership by and good dialogue with
the PA and its constituent organizations, if necessary reform and
implementation decisions are to be taken on a timely basis; Capacity
building takes a long time, requires great patience, and requires a
disproportional commitment of Bank staff time and supervision resources.
This is so because institutions are in their formative stages and are thus
quite weak. Also, the need, potential and options for reform are not
fully appreciated by incumbents at both the political and the bureaucratic
level;Planning and implementing in a highly unstable environment such as
WBG requires a flexible and unconventional approach. Often decisions have
to be made without adequate information or analysis. To do otherwise is
to risk being irrelevant. In this context misjudgments will be made. The
challenge is not that of meeting some rigidly predefined set of
objectives. It is to act quickly on the basis of the best existing
information and analysis, but to learn, learn quickly, and modify behavior
based on learning feedback. This may require continual redefinition of
objectives and even significant project redesign during
implementation.Close on-the-ground supervision by the Bank (IDA) and
willingness to be flexible, is essential, in adapting the project to local
realities; Adequate "slack" time must be provided for if the vicissitudes
of border closures (political risks) are to be weathered; It is critical
that beneficiaries be adequately consulted during project preparation in
order that their needs and priorities are properly reflected in project
design.Communities are willing to participate in program formulation and
contribute directly (up to 20- of project costs) for projects which
directly benefit their communities.As the development program shifts from
"emergency" operations and begins to tackle more complex issues, the Bank
and implementing agencies must develop the capacity to undertake more
sophisticated project appraisal.Greater attention needs to be paid by the
borrower to the timely acquisition of land and building permits if
significant implementation delays are to be avoided.The provision of
operating support to implementing units is critical to establishing
managerial and technical capacity.To the extent possible, these lessons
have all been built into the current project design. In particular, very
good working relationships have been developed with MLG and MPW at the
highest political and administrative levels and strong commitments to
project success exist (see below). Similarly strong relationships are
being formed with the SMs and the key stakeholders therein. Also, the
project is scheduled over 4 years, providing for the vicissitudes of work
- 5-



in WBG and adequate time for the slow and painful business of capacity
building to take hold. Because the infrastructure program focuses largely
on the regional road network it was not feasible to expect significant
community contributions. However, the possibility of these contributions
will be explored during implementation with respect to municipal and
village water supplies. Finally, with the supervision team on the ground,
the project will be adjusted as necessary, based on feedback during
implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The proposed project supports   environmental
improvements through rehabilitation of roads and water supply systems in
the West Bank and Gaza. Potential adverse environmental impacts have been
summarized in Table 1 of the EMP. These risks can be effectively
anticipated in advance of project implementation and addressed by direct
mitigation activities in the design, planning and construction process.
Since most of the investment activities to be supported by the proposed
Project deal with rehabilitation/improvements of existing infrastructure,
and since the projects do not involve issues such as land acquisition or
resettlement, the project is rated a category "B" in accordance with World
Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (January 1998) and requires the preparation
and implementation of an Environmental Management plan (EMP).A rapid
environmental audit was conducted on a sample of projects implemented
under MIDP I. The findings showed that for the most part, the projects
contributed to positive environmental impacts. The positive impacts with
regard to road rehabilitation included the following: road and sidewalk
projects reduced amount of dust, increased road safety, drainage has been
improved, all municipal roads rehabilitation included (where appropriate)
installation of sewers and street lightning, and most obstacles have been
removed from the public right of way. Tree planting especially in the Gaza
municipality will rapidly improve the quality of life in the urban areas.
Nevertheless, the audit also identified areas needing improvements. In
various locations garbage containers are blocking part of the road,
traffic signs are not adequate considering the increase in vehicular
speeds after road have been rehabilitated. Main pedestrian crossings,
especially near schools and cross roads need to be made safe. The quality
of paint used for road marks is often inferior. Semi urban and rural roads
shoulders could be planted with trees which will strengthen the shoulders
and have a general positive environmental impact. It was noted that the
road maintenance program needs a stronger emphasis on environment issues,
in particular with respect to road cleaning. More attention is needed in
design and construction of shoulders outside the cities. On various
location shoulders were to narrow or blocked. Though the improvement of
drainage has been a major focus of attention of MIDP I, its importance
can not be underestimated and will need special attention due to the
topography, especially in the West Bank. Random garbage disposal is the
most frequent recorded environmental problem associated with the roads.The
EMP has been prepared to integrate environmental concerns into the design
and implementation of the proposed MIDP II Project. It would support: a)
site-specific environmental screening of road rehabilitation and water
network projects; b) training staff/contractors involved in Project
implementation; c) monitoring and evaluation of mitigation measures
identified during site-specific reviews; d) and involvement of the public
- 6 -



in monitoring environmental impact during and after road construction,
through the distribution of a complaint form to municipalities and village
councils. All activities related to the EMP will be closely coordinated
with MEnA and MPW (please refer to EMP annex).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Kingsley 0. Robotham
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (972 2) 236-6500
Fax:   (972 2) 236-6543
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 5, 2000.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-8-



