Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF023961
Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
(Second Municipal Infrastructure Development Project)
between
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank)
Dated September 2, 2000
TF 023961
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 2, 2000, between the PALESTINE 
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as 
administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West 
Bank, established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 
93-7, as amended by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 
96-11 and IDA 96-7 and further amended by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 
99-2, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development 
Association (the Trust Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development 
Association has resolved, on July 29, 1999, to, inter alia, replenish the 
Trust Fund in the amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), such 
amount to be transferred from the surplus of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West 
Bank (the West Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority;
Page  2
(B)
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the 
State of Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement 
which, inter alia, sets out certain interim self-government arrangements 
in Gaza and the West Bank (the Interim Agreement);
(C)
Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement 
authorizes the Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations 
and, in certain cases described thereunder, sign agreements with states 
and international organizations for the benefit of the Palestinian 
Authority;
(D)
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Borrower, has 
requested the Administrator to assist in financing the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Palestine Liberation 
Organization, for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority, upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions” set forth in Schedule 1 to 
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the 
Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction, dated 
September 7, 1994, relating to the Emergency Rehabilitation Project (TF 
026066-GZ), as amended, with the following modifications thereto (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Administrator shall at any time receive less than 
the full amount then due 
and payable to it under the Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement, the Administrator shall have the 
right to allocate and apply 
the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement as the Administrator shall in its sole 
discretion determine.”;
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United 
Nations.”;
(c)
Paragraph (g) of Section 6.02 is re-lettered as paragraph 
(k) and the following new paragraphs (g) through (j) are added in said 
Section 6.02:
“(g)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity 
shall, without the consent 
of the Administrator, have (i) assigned 
or transferred, in whole or in part, any of its 
obligations 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property 
or assets financed wholly or in 
part out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
except with respect to transactions in the ordinary 
course of business 
which, in the opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to perform any 
Page  3
of its obligations under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project, or the ability of 
the Project 
implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising under, or 
entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or to achieve the objectives of 
the Project; and (B) do not materially 
and adversely affect the financial condition or 
operation of 
the Project implementation entity.
(h)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased 
to exist in the same legal 
form as that prevailing as of the date 
of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(i)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, 
disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project 
implementation entity.
(j)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal 
character, ownership or control 
of any Project implementation entity 
shall have changed from that prevailing as of the date 
of the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement so as to materially and adversely affect (i) the 
ability 
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement or 
to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; or (ii) the ability of the Project implementation 
entity to 
perform any of its obligations arising under, or entered into pursuant 
to, the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project.”;
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the 
right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any 
amount of the Credit 
for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Administrator determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, 
or (c) at any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any 
contract 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement 
or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any 
contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing 
Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the 
Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals to such 
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall 
be canceled.”;
(e)
Paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 is re-lettered as paragraph 
(h) and the following are added as new paragraphs (d) through (g) of said 
Section:
“(d)
The Borrower or any Project implementation entity 
shall, without the consent 
of the Administrator, have (i) assigned 
or transferred, in whole or in part, any of its 
obligations 
arising under the Trust Fund Credit Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property 
or assets financed wholly or in 
part out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
Page  4
except with respect to transactions in the ordinary 
course of business 
which, in the opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement or to 
achieve the objectives of the Project, or the ability of 
the Project 
implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising under, or 
entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Credit Agreement, 
or to achieve the objectives of 
the Project; and (B) do not materially 
and adversely affect the financial condition or 
operation of 
the Project implementation entity.
(e)
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased 
to exist in the same legal 
form as that prevailing as of the date 
of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(f)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, 
disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project 
implementation entity.
(g)
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal 
character, ownership or control 
of any Project implementation entity 
shall have changed from that prevailing as of the date 
of the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement so as to materially and adversely affect (i) the 
ability 
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement or 
to achieve the objectives of the 
Project; or (ii) the ability of the Project implementation 
entity to 
perform any of its obligations arising under, or entered into pursuant 
to, the 
Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project.”; and
(f)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CBU” means the Capacity Building Unit within MLG;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2) 
(a), (2) (b), (3)(a), (3) (b), (4), (5) (a) and (5) (b) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Environmental Assessment Report” means a report to be 
prepared by the PWA identifying and assessing the potential environmental 
impacts of a proposed Sub-project, evaluating alternatives, and designing 
appropriate mitigation, management, and monitoring measures in accordance 
with terms and conditions acceptable to the Administrator;
(e)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Palestinian 
Authority’s plan, dated February 2, 2000, as such plan may be updated 
from time to time by agreement of the Palestinian Authority and the 
Administrator, for implementation of the Project in accordance with 
appropriate environmental standards and guidelines, and includes an 
environmental mitigation plan, an environmental monitoring plan and 
certain institutional strengthening measures;
(f)
“Implementation Agreements” means, collectively, the 
agreement to be entered into by the Palestinian Authority, through MLG, 
Page  5
and each of the Selected Municipalities pursuant to Paragraph A.5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and such term shall include all schedules to the Implementation 
Agreements;
(g)
“MLG” means the Ministry of Local Government of the 
Palestinian Authority;
(h)
“MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Palestinian 
Authority;
(i)
“PAU” means the Project Accounting Unit within MLG;
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
“PWA” means the Palestinian Water Authority, a public 
authority established and operating in Gaza and the West Bank pursuant to 
a Decree of the Chairman of the Palestinian Authority, dated April 26, 
1995, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(l)
“Selected Municipalities” means the municipalities of 
Jabalia, Khan Younis, Tulkarem, Al-Ram, Jericho and Tarquimia;
(m)
“Special Account A” means the account referred to in Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(n)
“Special Account B” means the account referred to in Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(o)
“Special Account C” means the account referred to in Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(p)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, Special Account A, 
Special Account B and Special Account C;
(q)
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be 
carried out under Part A.2 of the Project, which the Bank shall consider 
eligible for financing under the Project; and
(r)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Palestinian Authority pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term shall include all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred 
thousand United States dollars (US$7,500,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such 
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian 
Page  6
Authority to pay to the Administrator a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Any 
waiver of commitment charges with respect to credits granted by the 
International Development Association shall apply to the Credit provided 
for under this Agreement.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
pay to the Administrator a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments 
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2010 and 
ending May 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 1, 2020, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Palestinian 
Authority with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, financial and 
environmental practices and shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Environmental Management Plan.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available 
to the Palestinian Authority under a subsidiary agreement to be entered 
Page  7
into between the Borrower and the Palestinian Authority under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all 
of the obligations of the Palestinian Authority therein set forth; (ii) 
to take all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the carrying 
out of the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the 
Project.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Palestinian Authority and the Administrator and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the 
Palestinian Authority to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Palestinian Authority and the Administrator, a 
plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Palestinian Authority on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian 
Authority to maintain a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Administrator, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to 
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish to 
the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; 
and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts, and the audit thereof, as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian 
Authority to: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
Page  8
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the 
Administrator has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Administrator’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian 
Authority to carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Administrator for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the 
Palestinian Authority, not later than July 1, 2001 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause the Palestinian 
Authority to prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and Palestinian Authority;
(b)
that the MLG has employed two accountants or an accounting 
firm, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Administrator, to manage the Project's accounts;
(c)
that the PAU is effectively operating in accordance with 
Page  9
terms and conditions acceptable to the Administrator; and
(d)
that the MLG has employed the auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, 
namely that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the 
Palestinian Authority and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the 
Palestinian Authority in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
P.O. Box 4007
Beirut Street, Rimal,
Gaza City, Gaza
Facsimile
072825255
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Gaza of the day, month and year first above 
written.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority
By /s/ Mohammed Nashashibi
Authorized Representative
Page  10
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West 
Bank
By /s/ Joseph P. Saba
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of Eligible
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  U.S. Dollar Equivalent   to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
85%
(a) under Part A.1 of the
   1,800,000
Project
(b) under Part A.2 of the
     450,000
Project
(2)
Goods
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
85% of local
expenditures
(a) under Parts B.1 and
     540,000
C.1 of the Project
(b) under Parts B.2 and
     540,000
C.2 of the Project
(3)
Consultants' services and
100% of 
foreign
training
expenditures 
and
85% of local
expenditures
(a) under Parts A.1, B.1
   1,620,000
and C.1 of the Project
(b) under Parts B.2 and
   1,350,000
C.2 of the Project
(4)
Consultants' services under
     180,000
100% of 
foreign
Part A.2 of the Project
expenditures 
Page  11
and
85% of local
expenditures
(5)
Incremental Operating Costs
85%
(a) under Part C.1 of the
      90,000
Project
(b) under Part C.2 of the
     180,000
Project
(6)
Unallocated
     750,000
TOTAL
   7,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the 
parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian 
Authority;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the 
jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority or for goods or services 
supplied from the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction 
of the Palestinian Authority, provided, however, that if the currency 
used in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the 
Palestinian Authority is also that of a country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for 
such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower, in respect of the Project, on account of 
salaries, office rent, utilities, bank charges, audit expenses vehicle 
operating costs, stationery, consumables, printing, translation services, 
publications, communication services, travel expenses, maintenance and 
acquisition of office equipment, and other related expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; (b) under Categories (2) (b) and (3) (b), 
unless (i) MLG has provided satisfactory evidence to the Administrator 
that MLG has employed a manager, a finance expert and a management expert 
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Administrator 
to operate the CBU; (ii) the effective operation of the CBU by MLG in 
accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the Administrator; and 
(iii) the execution by MLG of the Implementation Agreements with each of 
the Selected Municipalities in accordance with terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Administrator; and (c) under Category (1) (b) of the 
Project unless the PWA shall have first submitted to the Administrator, 
in connection with a Sub-project, an Environmental Assessment Report, 
procurement documents and contractual agreements in connection with such 
Sub-project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator and 
in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts 
costing less than the equivalent of $500,000 for works; (ii) contracts 
costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 for goods; (iii) contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for services with 
firms; (iv) contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
for services with individuals; (v) contracts for local training and 
studies; (vi) contracts for seminars and workshops; and (vii) Incremental 
Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator 
Page  12
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars three (3) separate 
special deposit accounts (Special Account A for Parts A.1, B.1 and C.1 of 
the Project, Special Account B for Part A.2 of the Project and Special 
Account C for Parts B.2 and C.2 of the Project), in one or more 
commercial banks, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Special Account A shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (5) (a) set 
forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Special Account B shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under 
Categories (1) (b) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and Special Account C shall be used 
exclusively to finance expenditures under Categories (2) (b), (3) (b) and 
(5) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
2.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that a Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit 
Account of amounts to be deposited into said Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
until the Administrator shall have received (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this 
Agreement and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Administrator of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Administrator determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Administrator determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Administrator within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) 
the records and accounts for any Special Account or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits 
into any Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of 
this Schedule if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the 
Page  13
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Administrator 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Administrator 
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Administrator into any Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund 
to the Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a 
Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
The term “Authorized Allocation” means:  (i) in respect of 
Special Account A, an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account A pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; (ii) in respect of Special Account B, an 
amount equivalent to $50,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
and (iii) in respect of Special Account C, an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator a request or 
requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposit into said Special 
Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall specify. Prior to or 
Page  14
at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part 
B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the credit Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account 
under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits 
into a Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to said Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Administrator may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Administrator into the respective Special Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into a 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit 
Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into a Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account an 
amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Administrator has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the 
amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project 
Management Report to be remaining in said Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $600,000 in respect of Special Account A, 
$100,000 in respect of Special Account B and $200,000 in respect of the 
Special Account C.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to rehabilitate and improve 
basic, high priority infrastructure and services in Gaza and the West 
Bank and build management capacity at the municipal and central level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree 
Page  15
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement
1.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods and 
consultants' services, and the execution of works, to rehabilitate and 
improve the regional road network.
2.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods and 
consultants' services, and the execution of works, to rehabilitate and 
improve village and municipal water, waste water and sewage systems 
networks, including the development of new systems networks.
Part B:
Capacity Building Support
1.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods, 
training and consultants' services, to strengthen the institutional 
capacity of the MPW to enable it to develop and implement a systematic 
approach to road maintenance and establish an environmental monitoring 
unit within the MPW.
2.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods, 
training and consultants' services, to strengthen the institutional 
capacity of the MLG and Selected Municipalities, such program to support 
the reform of MLG's accounting system and the Selected Municipalities' 
investment and development programming capacity.
Part C:
Project Management Support
1.
Support to the MPW through, inter alia, the provision of consultant 
services and goods, including computer hardware and software, training, 
essential office equipment, materials, supplies and spare parts to ensure 
effective management and coordination for the parts of the Project to be 
carried out by MPW.
2.
Support to the MLG through, inter alia, the provision of consultant 
services and goods, including computer hardware and software, training, 
equipment, materials, essential office supplies and spare parts to ensure 
effective management and coordination for the parts of the Project to be 
carried out by MLG.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits," published by the Administrator in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
Page  16
2.
Goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be 
subject to the following provision, namely, that the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in, and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors from, the West Bank or Gaza.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than US$1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$2,900,000 
equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Administrator. Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) 
tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in a 
local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective bidders shall be 
allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days between the date upon which the 
notification appears in the newspaper for the first time and the date 
upon which the bid is submitted; (iii) the format of the bidding 
documents shall be consistent with that of the Administrator's standard 
bidding documents, or with the format of bidding documents used by United 
Nations Agencies operating in the West Bank and Gaza; (iv) interested 
foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid; (v) bids shall 
be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted whether mailed or 
hand-carried; (vi) all bids shall be opened at the same time in public; 
(vii) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) 
no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify his, her or its bid 
after the bid closing date shall have elapsed; (ix) price negotiations 
with the lowest evaluated bidder shall be limited to cases provided for 
under the Guidelines; and (x) postqualification criteria shall, in the 
absence of a prequalification process, be explicitly stated in the 
bidding documents.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per 
contract, and not to exceed US$300,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per 
contract, and not to exceed US$300,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost US$5,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000 equivalent, and works 
estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000, may, with the 
Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Force Account
Small works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines and costing US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract, may, 
with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account 
Page  17
in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Administrator for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) contracts procured in accordance with direct 
contracting; (ii) contracts procured in accordance with international and 
national shopping procedures; (iii) contracts procured in accordance with 
force account procedures; (iv) the first two (2) contracts procured in 
accordance with national competitive bidding procedures; (v) contracts 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 or more per 
contract; and (vi) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of US$100,000 or more per contract, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,” 
published by the Administrator in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  18
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Single Source Contracts
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Administrator for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to any other contract for the employment of 
consulting firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more; (ii) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants procured in accordance with 
single source procedures; and (iii) the first three (3) contracts for 
services, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Administrator for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
Page  19
1.
The Borrower shall cause the Palestinian Authority to vest the 
responsibility for Project implementation in MLG, MPW and PWA.
2.
MPW shall be responsible for the carrying out of Parts A.1, B.1 and 
C.1 of the Project.
3.
(a)
PWA shall be responsible for the carrying out of Part A.2 of 
the Project.
(b)
Without any limitations or restrictions upon Section 3.01 to 
this Agreement, the PWA shall submit to the Administrator in connection 
with each Sub-project, under Part A.2 of the Project, an Environmental 
Assessment Report.
4.
MLG shall be responsible for: (i) overall Project coordination 
including, accounting, auditing, financial monitoring and reporting; (ii) 
carrying out Part B.2 through the CBU and PAU; and (iii) carrying out 
part C.2 of the Project.
5.
In order to achieve the objectives of the Project and to ensure 
effective capacity building and Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall cause MLG to enter into an Implementation Agreement with each of 
the Selected Municipalities pursuant to which, inter alia, the Selected 
Municipalities shall assume certain obligations with respect to Parts B.2 
and C.2 of the Project, all in accordance with terms and conditions that 
shall have been approved by the Administrator.
B.
Reports and Review
1.
The Borrower, through the Palestinian Authority, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrator, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator quarterly progress 
reports, acceptable to the Administrator regarding the implementation of 
the Project during the preceding quarter, and a work plan for the 
subsequent quarter;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator, on or about July 1, 
2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(d)
review with the Administrator, by September 1, 2002 or such 
later date as the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator views on the 
matter.
