RESIRICTED
Report No.   PTR-59a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
EARTHQUAKE AREA)
PERU
August 24, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



CurrencY Eanvalentat
Currency Units                   - Soles
Sole 1                           - US$0.026
Solea 38.7                       - US$1.00
Units of Weights and easuwes: Metric
Metric:i US &2uiralentg
1 Idlometer (kim)                   0.62 Pu.2es (ad)
1 meter (m)                      - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilaeter (sq kim)         0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)             - 0.98 lg ton
- 1.1 US short ten
Abbr6viations and Acronym
MTC           - ItLnistry of Transort and Comicatucios
PC            - Peruvian Corporation
UNDP          - United Natians Development  rograane



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(EARTHQUAKE AREA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................                      i
1.    INTRODUCTION ............................................1
2.    BACKGROUND ..............................................                      2
A.    Economic Setting  ....... ............                             2
B.    Transport Conditions  ......................... .                 3
C.    The Effect of the Earthquake  ..................                  3
3.    THE PROJECT  .............................................                     5
A.    Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering                        6
B.    Road Construction  .............................                  6
C.   Technical Assistance ..........................                     8
D.   Local Cost Financing  ..........................                   9
S.   Disbursement Schedule  .........................                   9
F.    Procurement and Disbursements  .............                      9
G.   Execution ........           .............................         9
4.   JUSTIFICATION ...................................                              10
5.    RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................                     11
TABLES
i  -  Preliminary Disbursement Schedule
2  -  Tentative Cost Estimates
MAPS
1  -  PERU
2  -  Callejon de Huaylas Area
This report was prepared by Messrs. E. Schaefer (consultant) and Mr. H.J.
Van Helden (transport advisor to the Transportation Projects Department).






SUMMARY
i.        Shortly after the earthquake of May 31, 1970, the Government of
Peru asked the Bank's help in financing rehabilitation, the total cost of
which may amount to several hundred millions of dollars.
ii.       A Bank mission visited Peru a few weeks after the event, and
identified a road project for improved access to and within the Callejon
de Huaylas, a valley high in the Andes which is the area most heavily
affected by the disaster. Access to this valley had been difficult even
before the earthquake; of the three possible routes, one was a cumbersome
rail and road combination, and the two other access roads were well below
standard for existing traffic. The railway section of the first route is
now destroyed and will not be rebuilt; the other roads, although now pass-
able again for traffic, have deteriorated further because of many land-
slides caused by the earthquake. Reconstruction and improvement of some
or all of the access routes is of high priority.
iii.      Before the most economic road solution to provide access can be
defined, a feasibility study must be made, and the selected solution en-
gineered in detail.
iv.       In view of the special circumstances, the US$30 million loan is
being made at an earlier stage than usual, so as to assure the Government
that Bank funds for construction of the selected project will be available
when the studies are completed. The loan will cover: (a) 80% of the cost
of consultants for the feasibility and detailed engineering studies, and of
consultants to help the highway department improve its overall maintenance
and betterment operations; (b) 67% of the cost of the road reconstruction
(still to be defined), for wnich an amount of about US$22 million is ten-
tatively set aside in the loan; and (c) US$5 million for capitalized in-
terest and commitment charges over a five year period. Disbursement for
construction will not be made until a project has been agreed between the
Governmnent and the Bank and has been adequately prepared. The total cost
of the project is estimated (very tentatively) at almost US$37 million
equivalent (exclud4ng capitalized interest and other charges); the foreign
exchange costs of this will be about US$20 million equivalent.
v.        In the event the amount set aside for reconstruction proves to be
in excess of that needed for the project selected, the balance would be used
for another high priority road project in Peru, to be selected by agreement
between the Government and the Bank.
vi.       Development of the economic potential of the Callejon de Huaylas
was earlier impaired by unfavorable transportation conditions. Improved
access to and within the area will help revitalize the economy of the
Callejon, upon which are dependent the half a million people who suffered
most severely from the earthquake.



- ii -
vii.      Road conditions in Peru are unsatisfactory in general.  Because of
inadequate budget allocations for road maintenance, the system has deterio-
rated in recent years, and a serious maintenance backlog now exists. To
help the highway department improve its maintenance and betterment opera-
tions, technical assistance to this department is included in the project.
viii.     Because of the special circumstances, a 30 year term including a
10 year period of grace would be suitable.



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (EARTHQUAKE AREA)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Peru has asked for the Bank's help in financ-
ing the rehabilitation of the Peruvian economy following the recent earth-
quake disaster. A Bank mission visited Peru from June 17-27, 1970 to
identify a priority project which would contribute to restoring and im-
proving living conditions in the area most affected by the earthquake.
The mission concluded that financing a project to reconstruct and improve
the main roads leading to and within the Callejon de Huaylas, a valley
high in the Andes, would help meet the Government's request.
1.02      Feasibility and detailed engineering studies will be required
before the optimum solution for improved road access and its cost can be
determined. In the special circumstances, a procedure is proposed where-
by the Government is assured, through a loan made at an earlier stage
than would be usual, that the Bank will make funds available for the
eventual project. The loan will cover:
Feasibility and detailed engineering studies        US$1.8 million
Technical assistance to the Highway Department
for maintenance and betterment operations         1.2
Road reconstruction, including supervision by con-
sultants                                         22.0
Capitalized interest and commitment charges
over a five year period                           5.0
30.0
1.03      The Bank has made a total of ten loans to Peru for transporta-
tion projects, and problems have been experienced with a number of them.
Loans of US$2.5 million and US$6.575 million were made in 1952 and 1958
respectively (57-PE and 208-PE) for expansion of the port of Callao. Al-
though delays were encountered because of difficulties with contractors
and others, the projects produced good facilities. US$3.1 million (373-PE)
was lent in 1964 for the port of Paita and US$9.1 million (446-PE) in 1966
for the port of Pisco; both projects have been virtually completed. Since
January 1970 all ports have been managed by a Port Authority created along
lines agreed with the Bank. Two loans (190-PE and 334-PE) totaling US$28.25
million were made in 1958 and 1963 to the Peruvian Corporation, a private
company which owns and operates the country's most important railways (para.
2.04). The project was successful from both physical and economic points



- 2 -
of view, but interference with wage and rate policies by the previous Gov-
ernment caused continual financial problems for the Corporation. The fi-
nancial position of the Corporation, though still unsatisfactory, has how-
ever improved in the past year. Four road loans have been made, namely
US$5 million and US$10 million for road maintenance in 1955 and 1961 re-
spectively (127-PE and 300-PE); US$5.5 million in 1960 (271-PE) for the
Aguaytia-Pucallpa road; and US$33 million in 1965 (425-PE) for the La Oroya-
Aguaytia road. The Aguaytia-Pucallpa road is located between the Selva
and the foothills of the Andes. Soils and climatic conditions (rainfall
of up to 6 meters annually) are extremely difficult, and no previous ex-
perience was available to draw from in designing and executing the road.
The road was only 80% completed when loan funds were exhausted in 1967;
at that time the Government was not able to raise funds to continue the
works. Extensive failures are continuing to occur in the work done and up
to US$8 million has been estimated for the cost of repairing and completing
the highway. The Government has recently initiated legal proceedings a-
gainst the consultant, the contractors and highway department officials
following the report of an investigating committee. The Bank has requested
the Government to ensure that all impediments delaying the repair and com-
pletion of the road are expeditiously removed. Difficulties were also
encountered with the La Oroya road; until recently the Government was not
able to make adequate budgetary provision for the work and, furthermore,
the cost of this road was seriously underestimated. An understanding was
reached with the Government in 1969 to scale down the project to the funds
available by deferring part of the improvements for a year or two. (See
memorandum to the Executive Directors of November 14, 1969, dealing with
the problems). The road maintenance projects were initially successful
but in recent years maintenance has deteriorated, mainly because of shortage
of budgetary funds.
1.04      The Government is conscious of the need to strengthen its planning
in the transport sector. It has applied to the UNDP for financing of a
technical assistance project, which would provide a team of some 10 trans-
portation experts to work within the planning division of the Ministry of
Transport and Communications. It is expected that the Bank will be asked
to be Executing Agency for this project. The Government also recognizes
that road maintenance and betterment operations must be improved and there-
fore an amount of US$1.2 million for technical assistance is included in
the proposed loan.
1.05      This report is based on findings of the above Bank mission, con-
sisting of Messrs. E. Schaefer (consultant) and H. J. Van Helden, transport
advisor to the Transportation Projects Department and author of this report.
The report was edited by Miss Soifer.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Peru is the third largest country in Latin America, with a popu-
lation of 13.6 million in an area of 1.3 million sq km (slightly larger



-3-
than the countries of the European Common Market combined). Bordered by
Ecuador and Colombia in the north, Brazil and Bolivia in the east, and
Chile in the south, it has a Pacific coastline of 2,250 km (Map 1). The
Andes, one of the world's highest mountain ranges, closely parallel the
coast over its entire length and divide the country into a narrow coastal
region (Costa), the mountains (Sierra) and eastern plains (Selva). Because
of the extreme ruggedness of the Andes, access to valleys in the Sierra and
the Selva plains is extremely difficult and costly. Lima, the capital and
the country's commercial center, is on the coast.
B.   Transport Conditions
2.02      The Pan-American Highway, between the mountains and the coast,
is the country's main surface route. Many small ports along the coast
accommodate coastal shipping and fishery; the latter is one of the country's
two main sources of foreign exchange earnings, the other being copper.
Callao, 11 km from Lima, is the main port and handles about 4 million tons
annually. A very high percentage of trade is sea-borne. The Pan-American
Highway, which connects Peru with Ecuador and Chile, and the road and rail
links with Bolivia, which carry relatively little traffic, are the only
international land transport connections.
2.03      Many roads (mostly low grade) run from the Pan-American Highway
into the Andes; only a few roads connect the Sierra with the Selva, which
has a widely scattered population. There are a few river ports on tribu-
taries of the Amazon River, the mouth of which is on the Atlantic Ocean,
some 3,400 to 4,300 km distant.
2.04      A number of railways exist of which only those owned and operated
by the foreign-owned Peruvian Corporation (PC) are of real importance. Of
the PC system, one line connects Lima with an important mining area near
Cerro de Pasco and another connects the port of Matarani in the south with
Bolivia, via a steamer service across Lake Titicaca. Less important is
the 168 km line crw-tEed and operated by the Santa Corporation, which runs
from Chimbote to Huallanca and La Galgada in the Andes mountain range.
2.05      About 60% of the country's inland freight traffic and over 90%
of passenger traffic is carried by road; coastal shipping carries about
30% of dom-estic freight.  Road conditions, however, are poor.  Road con-
struction is costly, partly because of the extremely difficult topography
and the unstable soil conditions. In addition, road maintenance has been
neelected in recent years, due largely to the lack of adequate budgetary
allocations. Of the 50,000 km road network, only 10% is asphalted, 16%
is gravel, and 74% is unpaved earth; only 25% of the network is all-weather.
C.   The Effect of the Earthquake
2.06      The earthquake of May 31, 1970, was one of the worst disasters
in the history of Latin America. About 1,400,000 people were affected, and
the official count now reports some 30,000 dead, 20,000 missing and 150,000



- 4 -
injured. The epicenter was about 380 km northwest of Lima, at a distance
of about 50 km from the coast, opposite the port of Chimbote. The earth-
quake affected an area of 77,000 sq km extending 700 kms along the coast
from south of Lima to the port of Trujillo and 110 kms inland.
2.07      The effects of the earthquake were threefold:  (a) avalanches of
ice, stone and mud, which covered whole towns and villages, and disrupted
power supply and communications; (b) tremors, which caused homes and build-
ings to crumble and slides to block roads; and (c) compaction of subsoils,
causing ground water levels to rise and flood areas near the coast. The
area of greatest damage is in the Department of Ancash, between the towns
of Pativilca and Chimbote on the coast and the Cordillera Blanca, a branch
of the western Andes. Especially hard hit was that part of the Santa River
valley known as the Callejon de Huaylas, which is flanked by the Cordillera
Blanca to the east and the Cordillera Negra to the west.
2.08      The main accesses to the Callejon de Huaylas were the Santa Rail-
way and two low-grade roads from the coast (Map 2). The railway, built in
part almost a hundred years ago, was damaged by the earthquake. The main
line is being repaired for light traffic, but not the branch from Chuqui-
cara to Huallanca in the Callejon de Huaylas, which was destroyed. Present
plans are to abandon this branchline and eventually to replace the whole
railway by a road. The two roads are the 149 km Casma-Huaraz and the 207
km Pativilca-Huaraz, which were both damaged. Crews have cleared slides
and have repaired structures and the roads are open again, but only for
single-lane traffic on many sections.
2.09      Both roads start at the Pan-American Highway and ascend the
Cordillera Negra through a series of sharp curves with roadways which
narrow to an effective width of only one lane in many places. They were
tracks which had been gradually improved over the years; the alignments
follow contours to minimize earthmoving. The surface is compacted clay
(with gravel in some areas) but some sections have no surfacing at all.
The Casma-Huaraz road crosses the Cordillera at a 4,200 m pass and de-
cends to Huaraz (altitude 3,120 m). Near the coast it has 30 km of
asphalt pavement, in poor condition. The Pativilca-Huaraz road follows
the valley of the Pativilca river and climbs sharply to Lake Conococha
(altitude 4,080 m) by means of a dangerous zigzag. Both roads, already
dangerous before the earthquake, are now even more hazardous. Before
considerable amounts are spent on further upgrading to better charac-
teristics, location studies are needed to see whether better alignments
can be found.
2.10      The 106 km section between Huallanca and Carhuaz in the Callejon
de Huaylas has suffered the most damage. It follows the Santa River, con-
necting the towns of Huallanca, Caraz, Yungay, Carhuaz and Huaraz. The
avalanche which buried the towns of Yungay and Ranrahirca partially des-
troyed the section north of Carhuaz, and it is now proposed to relocate
this entire section. The 30 km section between Carhuaz and Huaraz, which
is still open to traffic, has two lanes and a compacted clay and gravel
surface.



2.11      The Callejon is an intensively cultivated valley, and is very
attractive to tourists because of its great scenic beauty and pleasant
climate; however, access has always been difficult. To avoid the danger-
ous Casma or Pativilca roads, many travellers from Lima went via the Pan-
American Highway to Chimbote (417 km north of Lima), then 140 kms via the
Santa Railway to Huallanca, and then by the Callejon road to their destina-
tion in the valley. Before the earthquake, average daily traffic was 200
vehicles between Pativilca and Huaraz, 160 vehicles between Casma and Huaraz,
and 300 vehicles on the Callejon road between Huaraz and Carhuaz. The Santa
Railway carried 240,000 passengers and 36,000 tons of freight in 1967;
about half of this traffic was between Chimbote and Huallanca. Passenger
traffic has been stable in recent years, but freight traffic declined sharp-
ly from a high of 154,000 tons in 1958.
2.12      A feasibility study of the Chimbote access route was made by
consultants (TUDOR-CIASA, US/Peru) in 1966. They recommended a program for
replacing the Santa Railway with a highway, beginning with the inland branch-
es of the railway. This recommendation seems even more applicable to pre-
sent conditions now that the Chuquicara-Huallanca branch has been destroyed.
On the other hand, few people live in the area traversed by that branch, and
the power plant in Huallanca can be reached by a service road. Improvement
of the Pativilca and/or Casma roads may be expected to lead to higher traf-
fic volumes on these roads since both roads provide a much shorter connection
with Lima.
2.13      Present information is insufficient to justify a selection of
the best route or routes into the Callejon. A study is needed to compare
the costs and benefits of three possible access routes from Chimbote, Casma
and Pativilca, and to determine the appropriate standards for each of these
roads, which all go through extremely difficult terrain.
3. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project can best be defined as:  "To improve access to and
within the earthquake disaster area, the Callejon de Huaylas." It consists
of three parts:
I.   Feasibility study and detailed engineering of the main roads
leading to and within the Callejon de Huaylas, subdivided into:
(i) a feasibility study, including location studies of
the most difficult sections of all three routes;
and
(ii) detailed engineering of the road or roads selected
as a result of the feasibility study.



- 6 -
II.   Reconstruction and improvement of the selected road(s), in-
cluding supervision by consultants and, possibly, such other
high priority roads as may be agreed between the borrower and
the Bank.
III.   Technical assistance for the Highway Department to improve
maintenance and betterment operations.
A.   Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering
3.02      The scope of the feasibility study will be to prepare prelimi-
nary cost estimates for each of the three possible routes and to compare
the costs and benefits of each route or combination of routes, taking
account of various possible alternatives for design standards. To provide
a sound basis for decision making, the study should include about 270 km
of location surveys to determine the best engineering solution for the
following sections:
(a)  Chuguicara-Carhuaz (126 km)
The advantage of relocating the highway on the Cordillera
Negra side of the valley is to be investigated.
(b)  Chacchan-Huaraz (65 km)
This section of the Casma-Huaraz road has dangerously
sharp curves and steep grades. The case for a better
solution for crossing the Cordillera Negra should be
studied.
(c)  Chasquitambo-Lake Conococha (80 km)
The present location of this section of the Pativilca-Conococha
road is unsatisfactory. A more gradual ascent to Lake Cono-
cocha should be sought.
3.03      The cost of the feasibility study, including location studies,
is estimated at US$700,000. The cost of the detailed engineering of the
Chimbote road, the Casma road and the Pativilca road is estimated at US$1
million, US$500,000 and US$800,000 respectively. Detailed engineering
will be started when the best access route (or routes) has been selected
by the Government in agreement with the Bank on the basis of the feasibi-
lity study recommendations. It is unlikely that major improvements of
all three routes will prove justified and therefore, only part of the
above amounts will be needed for engineering (Table 2).
B.   Road Construction
3.04      The mission made the following rough construction cost estimates
using the Peruvian second category highway standards as a basis. The fea-
sibility study will aim at establishing more economic standards for these
roads:



Pativilca-Huaraz Road (207 km)
Estimates were based on a 6 m asphalt surface and shoulders
varying from 0.75 to 1.20 m, depending on topography. Since
annual rainfall in the mountains is 760 mm (occurring during
five months), and only 15 mm on the coast, it was assumed that
only the mountainous sections would be surfaced with asphalt
concrete, while the first 70 km from Pativilca would have a
double surface treatment. Taking recoverable sections of
the existing road into consideration, the cost would be about
US$22 million.
Casma-Huaraz Road (149 km)
The same standards were assumed as for the Pativilca road.
The first 30 km, starting from Casma, are asphalt paved,
and since the surface is in poor condition it was assumed
that a double surface treatment would be applied in this
section. For the rest of the road, only a new crushed
rock base course would be provided. Taking usable portions
of the existing road into consideration, the cost would be
about US$11 mdllion.
Carhuaz-Huaraz Road (30 km)
This portion of the Callejon road will have more traffic than
any of the access roads, due to the local traffic in the valley.
A 6 m asphalt concrete surface was assumed and 1.8 m shoulders,
although it may be desirable to increase the width of the road
surface to 6.6 m and the shoulders to 2.4 m. The cost of this
road section would be about US$4 million.
Chimbote-Carhuaz (216 km)
The cost of the Chimbote-Carhuaz road was not examined in as
great detail, but assuming similar conditions and standards,
the cost of an asphalt surfaced road would be about US$26
million.
3.05      Recommendations as to the composition of the project are to be made
in the proposed feasibility study, which will probably suggest a combination
of major and minor improvements of more than one road or road sections. It
is tentatively assumed that a construction project costing about US$30 million
will result from the study. Assuming that the foreign currency cost of the
feasibility study and detailed engineering would amount to about US$1.8 mil-
lion, and that of technical assistance to the Highway Department about US$1.2
million, about US$22 million of the US$30 million loan (of which US$5 million
is for capitalized interest and commitment charges over a five year period)
would be left for participation in the cost of the construction element of



- 8 -
the project. Since it is not feasible to estimate the actual cost of super-
vision by consultants before the size of the reconstruction project is known,
supervision costs and an unallocated item are considered to be included in
the above US$22 million (see Table 2).
3.06      For previous road construction projects in Peru the foreign
currency component was estimated at 50%; the Bank contribution for the
last road project (425-PE) was 60%, which included some local cost financ-
ing. Because of the special circumstances, a Bank contribution of 67% of
construction cost is now proposed. If the above US$22 million is more than
needed for improved road access to the disaster valley, the balance would
(subject to agreement between the Government and the Bank) be used for some
other high priority road project elsewhere in Peru. In this connection the
Government is drafting a five-year highway investment program, and has a-
greed to seek the Bank's comments thereon before formally adopting it.
C.   Technical Assistance
3.07      It is proposed to provide in the loan US$1.2 million for a tech-
nical assistance program, estimated to cost US$1.5 million. Road conditions
are poor in general, and well below the standards expected in a country at
Peru's stage of development. Under previous loans, the Bank has financed
assistance by consultants to the highway department for improving its organi-
zation and maintenance operations, but much of the effect of this assistance
has been dissipated by the lack of budgetary funds for maintenance in recent
years. The Government had neither the funds nor the administrative capacity
to undertake an ambitious road construction program without neglecting main-
tenance of the existing network. Because of inadequate planning and design,
there were heavy cost overruns on new road projects, leading to further diver-
sion of funds from maintenance to construction. As a result, the consultants'
recommendations could not be implemented, much equipment became idle due to
lack of spare parts, and asphalt pavements deteriorated because of neglected
maintenance. A serious backlog in road maintenance exists.
3.08      The Government intends to limit new construction starts for some
years in order to complete on-going works, and to introduce a sound mainte-
nance and betterment program for existing roads. To achieve this, further
technical assistance to the highway department is needed, initially at
headquarters and then, in addition, in the field. To avoid spreading the
technical assistance too thinly, assistance in the field will be limited to
two pilot zones, to be selected and agreed upon between the Government and
the Bank once the consultants have made their recommendations. The Govern-
ment plans to spend more on road maintenance, and has agreed that within five
years its maintenance budget will have reached a level adequate to meet the
maintenance requirements determined on the advice of the consultants.



- 9-
D.   Local Currency Cost Financing
3.09      On the basis of the rough cost estimates mentioned above, the
cost of the project to the Government would be less than US$12 million;
namely US$450,000 for studies, about US$300,000 for subsistence and other
local currency costs for the technical assistance team, and one third of
US$33 million for construction, including supervision and an unallocated
item. In addition to providing for maintenance needs (para 3.08), the
Government has given assurances that adequate funds for the project will
be set aside in the budget. The annual expenditures in local currency
for the project should, assuming a continuation of the improved fiscal
program, be within the financial means of the Government.
E.   Disbursement Schedule
3.10      Because of uncertainties as to what project will eventually result
from the studies, the disbursement schedule, presented in Table 1, is only
tentative.
F.   Procurement and Disbursement
3.11      Construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for procurement. Bids will not be invited until detailed engineering of
the road(s) selected on the basis of the feasibility study is completed,
and agreement reached between the Government and the Bank as to what the
construction project will be; until then loan disbursements will be limited
to studies and technical assistance. It is proposed that loan disbursements
cover 80% of the consultants' costs for such studies and assistance and 67%
of expenditures on reconstruction, including supervision by consultants.
Because reconstruction work will not start until feasibility study and
engineering have been completed, commitment charges related to reconstruct-
ion will not accrue for the first year.
G.   Execulton
3.12      Until recently, management of the transport sector in general,
and of the department responsible for highways in particular, left much
to be desired. Over the last year the new Government took the first steps
to improve the situation by bringing all the various subsectors together
under the newly constituted Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC),
by increasing maintenance outlays, and by concentrating on completing
ongoing priority works. Within this new Ministry, the General Directorate
for Land Transport will be responsible for execution of the project. The
Government will select consultants for studies, supervision of construction
and technical assistance, subject to Bank concurrence. Terms of reference
for the studies have already been agreed with the Government.



- 10 -
4. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      It is not possible to present a quantitative economic analysis of
the proposed project at this time. The feasibility study and detailed en-
gineering must be completed to obtain reasonably firm cost estimates. In-
formation in the following paragraphs provides some qualitative support that
an economically justified project will emerge from the studies.
4.02      The Callejon de Huaylas is part of the Ancash administrative de-
partment, with its capital, Huaraz, located in the center of the worst
affected disaster area. The 1970 population of the department is estimated
at 750,000, of which about 500,000 live in the Sierra, about 200,000 in
Chimbote on the coast (this town has also been very heavily damaged) and
the balance in other small coastal towns. In the Sierra there is some
small-scale coal mining, but most people are employed in agriculture. Much
of this is only subsistence farming, partly due to poor land communications
with potential markets in Lima, Chimbote and other coastal towns.
4.03      Because of unfavorable climatic conditions along the coast, with
an annual rainfall of only 15 mm and very little sunshine, coastal towns
must be supplied with foodstuffs from elsewhere. The valley has a good
climate, with abundant sunshine and an annual rainfall of about 0.75 m.
Produce grown includes fruits, barley, maize, wheat, potatoes and other
vegetables. There are also cattle pastures and some forestry. Good
possibilities exist for improved small-scale irrigation, and there are
indications that agricultural production could expand to serve markets
outside the Sierra if land transport conditions were more favorable. Be-
cause of the poor road conditions, however, transport costs in the Sierra,
and between the Sierra and the coast, are among the highest in the coun-
try, about three times those prevailing on asphalted roads on the coast.
Rail tariffs to Chimbote are lower, but the distance from Carhuaz via that
route to Lima is 200 km or 50% longer than via the Pativilca road.
4.04      The pleasant climate and beautiful scenery are also favorable
for the development of tourism. Mountain climbing and skiing already attract
tourists to this "Peruvian Switzerland", as do the many hot springs claimed
to have medicinal value. There are also interesting folklore and archae-
logical monuments. The further development of tourism is hampered by poor
land communications.
4.05      In 1965, Renardet/Sauti (consulting engineers, Italy) recommended
starting improvements of the Casma-Huaraz road and the Pativilca-Huaraz road
in 1967 and 1970 respectively; however, their suggested standards were much
lower than those now being considered by the Government. Both roads were
scheduled in earlier drafts of the present Government's development plan to
be undertaken in 1973 and 1972, respectively. The scheduling did not, of
course, take account of the complete disruption of the Carhuaz-Huallanca-
Chimbote route. There is now no obvious case for giving the highest priority
to the restoration of this connection with the valley. Huallanca is a



- 11 -
town of only 5,000 people, and few people live in the gorge traversed by
the railway. Although construction of a road may be justified, the question
is to what standards such a road should be built. The fact that the now
destroyed railway was already there before motorized road transport existed,
may well have delayed improving the other access roads. To select the eco-
nomically optimum solution, the access problem should now be reviewed as a
whole.
4.06      Selecting the most economic design standards for Andean terrain is
a major problem. An important aspect of the proposed feasibility study is to
select economically acceptable design standards for each possible route.
4.07      Notwithstanding unsatisfactory alignment and physical condition
of the Pativilca and Casma roads, even before the earthquake these roads
carried some 200 and 160 vehicles daily. Because of the many landslides
caused by the earthquake, driving conditions have greatly deteriorated. In
addition, the previous railway traffic will divert to the above roads, and
much of this diverted traffic will remain. Induced traffic will also result
since improved roads will encourage agricultural production in the Callejon
de Huaylas area. In the future, air transport to the Sierra may play a
role, particularly for tourism (there are plans to improve the airport
near Huaraz); however, total traffic volumes on all three existing routes
had already passed the point where air transport alone would have been the
most economic transport mode. There is no doubt that the total of existing,
diverted and induced traffic that will result from efforts to rehabilitate
and revitalize the Callejon de Huaylas will call for better roads than exist-
ed before the earthquake, and have now deteriorated further as a result of
the earthquakes. Therefore there is every reason to believe that a satis-
factory and economically viable project will result from the feasibility
study and will be constructed under the project.
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
on the fo'lowing principle points:
(a) Should surplus construction funds remain, they may be utilized for
a high-priority road project to be agreed between the Government
and the Bank (para. 3.06);
(b)  Bids for construction will not be invited until agreement on the
composition of the reconstruction project has been reached between
the Government and the Bank and detailed engineering completed
(para. 3.11);
(c)  The Government will review its road program with the Bank before
the formal adoption of its Five Year Plan (para 3.06);



- 12 -
(d) The Government intends to gradually increase its annual budget
allocations for highway maintenance to a level adequate for the
needs of the country's highway system (para 3.08); and
(e) The Government will set aside in its annual budget adequate
funds for the reconstruction project (para 3.09).
5.02      A loan of US$30 million is recommended, including an amount of up
to US$5 million for capitalized interest and commitment charges over a period
of five years. Because of the special circumstances prevailing as a result
of the earthquake, a 30 year term, including a ten year period of grace,
would be suitable.
Auguwt 24, 1970



TABLE 1
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD RBCONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(EARTHQUAKE AREA)
Prelimina    Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ millions)
Calendar Years              Total
1971  1972  1973  1974  1975
I. Engineering and Technical
Assistance
(i)  Feasibility Stud /      0.6                                   0.6
(ii)  Detailed Engineering '  1.2                                   1.2
(iii)  Technical Assistance    0.6   0.6                              U.
2.4   0.6                            3.0
II.  Constructio_ _              2.1    .9    50   5.0   4.0          22.0
Total disbursed             4.5  6.5    5.0   5.0   4.0          25.0
III. Interest and Commitment
Charges                    0.15  0.70   1.10  1.40   1.65        5.0
30.0
/ rounded figures
/  including construction supervision and an unallocated item of
US$ 1 million
August 21, 1970






TABIE 2
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(EARTHQUAKE AREA)
Tentative Cost Estimates
(in US$ equivalent)
Bank       Government
Total      Financed       Financed
I. Studies and Technical
Assistance
(i) Feasibility Study
(including location
studies)                     700,000       560,000          140,000
(ii)  Detailed Engineering
Chimbote-Huaraz 1,000,000
Casma-Huaraz       500,000
Pativilca-Huaraz   800,000
I4aximum total
would be:     2,300,000
Assumed to be actually spent:    1,550,000      l,240i,000        310,000
(iii)  Technical Assistance        1,-3O,000     1,200,000          300,000
Subtotal:    3,750,000     3,000,000         750,000
II. Road Reconstruction,
(including supervision by
consultants and unallocated)   3,00Q,000    22,000,000        11,000,000
-f-i. Capitalized Interest and
Commitment Charges              5,000,000      5.000,000         _
Total:   41,750,000    30,000,000      11,750,000
August 21, 1970






X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '                                                                                                      'N  
MA            
fJ                                               .iS                 4~~~~~~~~~~A    C O  L 0 m BI A 
t   E  C  U  A  D-0  R-
g   /'                                                  ?''deASa'm%'                        i        i~~~/ 
j/..t    ,  iI
coon~o~c... ny                                                                 R    A       Z      I     L
Pa i i rz <ft$>}0 Chuluconos   :onoanc    yOoPOPa 
f-'   m\/-   S <                 Ctl_yobombo  4<,       ,>                   >~~~~unc~elco  uclobmb
|       \    Choehopoyos                  Co.b- /.              4yo
~~~~~~ I Freoe             <]Trpt       
U.-C. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
\  sd11 rmbrzyeque   X     /|              /                 ,'~~~~~~~~uroo           ~       eqip
AUGUST  1970                                      d680 3 8
>~~~       ~~              mcho5ombmry r~  
= Hemly~~~~~~ affcte   ...cbob a\
=   Less~~~~~~~ he-ily  fice  a,ec,\Loelu                  4TnoMrl            S
Cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,q p  '                                                  n                    \
A v       i  ~~                  +                - /5       <  \ .A-  HIL
AUGUS  1970il  IttRDe ere308 Xhlhuco                                                                                                    aR 






MAP 2
N. 
\0\<HIMBOTE                    "IOs  HU
N.    \\ X\t sm 
Pcicific3OKm -AZ  4Km                          Tfclt~   
\ \ Pcnomericon                Conocoto
\ aR\MS// 65K
\~~~1. Km\,        hs.ut mbif80im.u\
Ocean                                                                           83Kms', t +1 > D   greatof
P6t-namer |ican   l91KmsoIJJ'odamage
LU A. ,-'sS H1                        ~\t                                    grats
I      Peru~~~~~~Trri
Earthquake and
Total affected Area ~AvaLanches, May 31. 1970
TotaL affected Area~~~                    ~        ~         Ara o
700Km.x11sArea of Greatest
Damage
..............Caeon de Huaylas
...JULY 17  :
JULY 1970                                                                                        IBRD 3098



