CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 757-BR
Loan Agreement
(Sio Paulo Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SUPERINTENDENCIA DE GUA E ESGOTOS
DA CAPITAL
DATED JUNE 21, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 757-BR
Loan Agreement
(Sao Paulo Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SUPERINTENDENCIA DE XGUA E ESGOTOS
DA CAPITAL
DATED JUNE 21, 1971


﻿11vn A~grment
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1971, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and SUPERINTENDjNCIA DE
AGUA E ESGOTOS DA CAPITAL (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
WHEREAS (B) The Bank is willing to make the Loan
available upon the terms and conditions set forth herein-
after and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the State of Sa'o Paulo;
WHEREAS (C) The Bank has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated Jan-
uary 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as
so modified, being hereinafter called the General Condi-
!tions):
(a) Section 5.01 is deleted;


﻿4
(b) Section 6.02(i) is amended to read as follows: "Any
event specified in paragraph (e) or (f) of Section 7.01
shall have occurred.";
(c) Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the
Project Agreement" after the words "the Loan Agree-
ment";
(d) Section 9.01 is amended by inserting the words ", the
Project Agreement" after the words "the Guarantee
Agreement";
(e) Section 9.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
the State" after the word "Borrower" each place in which
it occurs, and by inserting the words "or the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Loan Agreement";
(f) Section 9.03 is amended by inserting the words ", the
Project Agreement" after the words "the Loan Agree-
ment";
(g) the following subparagraphs are added to Section
2.01: "20. the term Project Agreement shall have the
meaning set forth in the Loan Agreement.
21. the term State shall have the meaning set forth
in the Loan Agreement."
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "State" means the State of So Paulo of the Guar-
antor.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and the State of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
(c) "Cr$" means cruzeiros in the oirrency of the Guar-
antor.


﻿5
(d) "IU.P.C." means Unidades Padrdo de Capital
(standard units of capital) established by regulations of
the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be with-
drawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed under the Loan Agreement;
provided, however, that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expendi-
tures in the territories of any country which is not a mem-
ber of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services (other than services of consultants)
required for the Project and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, shall be procured on the basis of inter-
national competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bank
and the Borrower.


﻿6
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of seven and one-quarter per cent (71/4%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
SECTION' 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth.in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION. 2.09. If and as the Bank shall from time to time
request, the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds rep-
resenting the principal amount of the Loan as provided in
Article VIII of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.10. The Superintendente of the Borrower and
such other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing
are designated as authorized representatives of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Con-
ditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, engineering and public util-
ity practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower's De-
partment of Works in preparing specifications and tender


﻿7
documents, evaluating bids and Project administration, the
Borrower shall employ competent and experienced con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions
and according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to use the services of
competent and experienced consultants for the purpose of
training its staff in leak detection techniques and shall pro-
vide adequate competent staff for this purpose.
SECTION 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable
to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods
to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall cause all goods and services financed with the
proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
SEcTION 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
with the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's repre-


﻿8
sentatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed with
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed with such pro-
ceeds.
SECTION 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound business, financial and public utility practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by adequate competent staff.
SECTION 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall at all times take all steps which
are necessary to maintain its existence and its right to carry
on operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all
lands and to maintain and renew all interests in land and
other properties and all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the carrying
out of the Project or in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,


﻿9
and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public
utility practices.
(c) The Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or other-
wise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall
be required for the efficient operation of its businss and
undertaking.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
SECTION 4.04. Not later than two years after the date
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall introduce and there-
after consistently maintain a commercial accounting sys-
tem which is satisfactory to the Bank, in place of the sys-
tems now in use.
SECTION 4.05. Not later than three years after the date
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall put into effect a
sound personnel policy, including the establishment of its
own statute of personnel, regulating the engagement, trans-
fer and dismissal of staff according to the Borrower's
needs, and providing for scales of remuneration and con-
ditions of service appropriate to ensure the recruitment and
retention of qualified staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices its operations and financial con-
dition. The Borrower agrees to revalue its assets on its
books (including work in progress), as of December 31,
1969, at Cr$750 million gross and Cr$570 million net of
depreciation.


﻿10
SECTION 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fis-
cal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.
SECTION 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets
as security for any debt except -as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, (i) if the Borrower shall create any
lien on any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express
provision will be made to that effect; and (ii) if any lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower, other than
paragraph (i) above, as security for any debt, the Bor-
rower shall grant to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing
provision will be made to that effect; and (ii) if any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (b) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.


﻿11
SECTION 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to establish and
maintain charges for water and sewage collection which
will provide revenues sufficient to cover its operating ex-
penses and to produce an annual return on the value of
its assets in service at a rate of not less than 51/2% in the
fiscal year 1972 and in each succeeding fiscal year at a rate
of not less than 7%; such charges, revenues, operating
expenses aind values of assets shall be computed in accord-
ance with Schedule 5.
SECTION 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than for money
borrowed for financing the Project (including loans made
pursuant to the loan commitments referred to in Section
9.01(b)), unless its net revenues for the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less than two times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt, including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all debt of the Bor-
rower, including debt for the service of which the Borrower
is responsible, maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or
other instrument providing for such debt.
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrow-
er's rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating and administrative expenses and provision for
taxes, if any, but before provision covering depreciation
and debt service requirements.


﻿12
(d) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guar-
antor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable,
at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined
by the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation; Information and Inspection
SECTION 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and the Borrower
shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Borrower and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Loan.
SECTION 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall
promptly inform each other of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by either of them of its
obligations under the Loan Agreement.


﻿13
SECTION 6.03. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's rep-
resentatives to inspect all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower and
any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VII
Taxes
SECTION 7.01. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed on or in connection with the
execution, issue, delivery or registration of the Loan Agree-
ment, any instrument made pursuant to Section 5.03 of this
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds, or the
payment of principal, interest or other charges thereunder;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to taxation, under the laws of the Guarantor or
laws in effect in its territories, of payments under any Bond
to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is
beneficially owned by an individual or corporate resident
of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE VIII
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 8.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 8.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the
Borrower and the Guarantor declare the principal of the
Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the interest and other
charges thereon and upon any such declaration such prin-
cipal, interest and charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agree-
ment or in the Bonds notwithstanding.


﻿14
SECTION 8.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additiona- events are
specified:
(a) The State shall have failed to perform any obliga-
tion under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the State will be able to per-
form its obligations under the Project Agreement.
SECTION 8.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following event is specified:
The event specified in Section 8.02 (a) of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and the State.
ARTICLE IX
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 9.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 11.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) The Borrower shall put a tariff increase of at least
50o over present levels in effect from July 1, 1971, in addi-
tion to any increase arising from changes in the official
minimum salary in force in the municipality of Sho Paulo.
(b) The Borrower shall obtain loan commitments the
terms and conditions of which are satisfactory to the Bank
from Fomento Estadual de Saneamento Bdsico and from
Banco Nacional da Habitagdo, each for not less than 1.6
million U.P.Cs.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all neces-
sary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given
by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions or agencies or
by any agency of any political subdivision or otherwise


﻿15
to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform
all of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the
Borrower in the Loan Agreement contained, together with
all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith,
have been performed or given.
(d) The Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil.
SECTION 9.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 11.02 (c) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the State, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the State in accordance with its terms.
(b) That all acts, consents and approvals referred to in
Section 9.01 (c) of this Agreement, together with all neces-
sary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
duly and validly performed or given and that no other such
acts, consents or approvals are required in order to author-
ize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Bor-
rower to perform all of the covenants, agreements and
obligations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement con-
tained; and
(c) That the Loan Agreement has been duly registered
by Banco Central do Brasil.
SECTION 9.03. The date October 29, 1971 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
ARTICLE X
Addresses
SECTION 10.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿16
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
SuperintendAncia de Agua e Esgotos da Capital
Rua Riachuelo, 115-50 andar
81o Paulo, Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
SUPERINTENDJNCIA DE AGUA E
ESGOTOS DA CAPITAL
By  /s/ JoAo MOREIRA GARCEZ FILHO
Authorized Representative


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed with the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each category and the percentage
of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the    % of Expenditures
Loan Allocated    to be Financed
(Expressed in
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)
I Imported pipes, fittings    10,900,000  100% of foreign
and related equipment                   expenditures
II Imported water meters and    1,150,000  100% of foreign
billing equipment                       expenditures
III Consultants' services         450,000   100% of foreign
expenditures
IV Civil works and locally       5,500,000  20% of total
produced or procured                    expenditures, represent-
machinery and equipment                 ing the estimated
listed under categories                 foreign expenditures
I and II of this Schedule               component
V   Unallocated                4,000,000
TOTAL                  22,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term  "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign expenditures and expenditures for goods pro-
duced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Guarantor.


﻿18
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such
percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for
such taxes.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1
above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Loan then allocated
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of
such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by
the Bank, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category
from the unallocated amount of the Loan, subject, however,
to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Bank, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c) The Bank will, upon request from the Borrower,
increase the percentage applicable to Category IV to the
extent necessary to permit full withdrawal of the Loan


﻿19
amount or of an amount, which added to amounts allocated
to other categories, equals 37% of the then estimated cost
of the Project, whichever is the lower.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of total expenditures under Category IV shall increase and
no proceeds of the Loan are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A. The supply and installation, inside the boundaries of
the Municipality of Sfo Paulo, of about 2,800 km of dis-
tribution mains ranging in size from 75 mm to 700 mm
in diameter.
B. The construction of additional storage reservoirs in the
Sdo Paulo Municipality with a total capacity of about
103,000 M3.
C. The acquisition for the Borrower's operations of 250,000
water meters and billing equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1974.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars) *
May 1, 1976                                  240,000
November 1, 1976                             250,000
May 1, 1977                                  260,000
November 1, 1977                             270,000
May 1, 1978                                  280,000
November 1, 1978                             290,000
May 1, 1979                                  300,000
November 1, 1979                             310,000
May 1, 1980                                  320,000
November 1, 1980                             330,000
May 1, 1981                                  345,000
November 1, 1981                             355,000
May 1, 1982                                  370,000
November 1, 1982                             385,000
May 1, 1983                                  395,000
November 1, 1983                             410,000
May 1, 1984                                  425,000
November 1, 1984                             440,000
May 1, 1985                                  460,000
November 1, 1985                             475,000
May 1, 1986                                  490,000
November 1, 1986                             510,000
May 1, 1987                                  530,000
November 1, 1987                             545,000
May 1, 1988                                  565,000
November 1, 1988                             590,000
May 1, 1989                                  610,000
November 1, 1989                             630,000
May 1, 1990                                  655,000
November 1, 1990                             680,000
May 1, 1991                                  700,000
November 1, 1991                             730,000
May 1, 1992                                  755,000
November 1, 1992                             780,000
May 1, 1993                                  810,000
November 1, 1993                             840,000
May 1, 1994                                  870,000
November 1, 1994                             900,000
May 1, 1995                                  935,000
November 1, 1995                             965,000
May 1, 1996                                1,000,000
22,000,000
* To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿22
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any por-
tion of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemp-
tion of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section
8.15 of the General Conditions:
Time of Piepayment or Redemption       Premium
Not more than three years before maturity 3/4%
More than three years but not more than
six years before maturity ............ 21/4%
More than six years but not more than
twelve years before maturity ..........  3%
More than twelve years but not more than
seventeen years before maturity ....... 41/2%
More than seventeen years but not more
than twenty-two years before maturity 534%
More than twenty-two years but not more
than twenty-four years before maturity 634%
More than twenty-four years before
maturity ..    ....................... 714%


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract for equipment and machin-
ery estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
and of any contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in
detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for piequalification, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall
make such additions or deletions from the said list as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding and shall make such modi-
fications in the said documents or procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to whom
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by
the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the reasons for the intended award. The Bank
shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any


﻿24
objection to the intended award on the ground that it would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in See-
tion 2.03 of this Agreement or with the Loan Agreement,
and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have.
(d) If the contract shall be awarded over the Bank's rea-
sonable objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked, no expenditure thereunder shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(e) Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of any such
contract.
2. For the purpose of evaluating bids for machinery and
equipment and associated services included in Categories
I, II and IV of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and
compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a) the term "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufactlirer established in the territories of the Borrower
for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial extent
(as reasonably determined by the Bank) in such territories;
any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b) the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-
factory price of such goods;
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with
any Local Bid, the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. (Santos) price of such goods; and
(ii) 15/o of the amount specified in (i) above, in lieu
of customs duties and similar taxes on importation;
and


﻿25
(d) For comparison purposes all bids after evaluation
will be converted into cruzeiros at the Bid Comparison
Rate of Exchange. The Bid Comparison Rate of Exchange
is understood to be the dollar selling rate of exchange fixed
by the Banco do Brasil S.A. prevailing on the date bids are
awarded. It is further understood that the Bank will, on
its own initiative or at the request of the Guarantor or the
Borrower, reconsider and, if necessary, revise the Bid Com-
parison Rate of Exchange, whenever there is a substantial
change in the Brazilian exchange system which would, in
the judgment of the Bank, render such rate unsuitable for
bid comparison purposes.
3. With respect to any other contract, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
any such contract, two certified copies of such contract, a
summary of bids or quotations received, the analysis
thereof and the recommendation thereon. Two certified
copies of each amendment to such contract shall be fur-
nished to the Bank promptly after its execution. The Bank
shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the
award of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with
the Loan Agreement and, in such event, no expenditure
under such contract shall be financed with the proceeds of
the Loan.
4. Spare parts and other items required to be compatible
with existing equipment and such minor items as are, for
reasons of economy, customarily procured without compe-
tition are excepted from the requirement of international
competitive bidding set forth in Section 2.03 of the Loan
Agreement.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 5
Computation of Water and Sewage Collection
Charges, Revenues and Operating Expenses
1. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "Depreciation" means straight-line depreciation
calculated at rates appropriate to the expected serviceable
life of each asset and equal in total to not less than 2/2%
per annum of the book value of fixed assets; provided that
whenever fixed assets are revalued for monetary correc-
tion, depreciation shall be recalculated retrospectively in
accordance with such revised values.
(b) "Fixed Assets" means the aggregate value of all
movable and immovable capital assets actually in service
(other than stocks of material), notwithstanding that they
may be described.as "Work in Progress" in the Borrow-
er's accounts, before deducting any depreciation.
(c) "Monetary Correction Index" in relation to any
year means the official Indice de CorreVdo Monetiria de
Ativo Imobilizado published after the* end of that year for
the purpose of revaluing fixed assets to values current in
that year; or such other coefficient consistent with the regu-
lations of the Guarantor as the Bank may approve.
(d) "Operating Expenses" for any year means the sum
of the expenses properly chargeable as the cost of current
operations during that year including, but not limited to:
(i) wages, salaries, and other personal expenses,
not chargeable to capital account;
(ii) materials used and consumed not chargeable
to capital account;
(iii) Depreciation;
(iv) amounts falling due to other water or sewerage
authorities; and
(v) taxes payable by the Borrower in its own right
and not as a collecting agent;


﻿27
less operating revenue (other than from Billings) arising
during the year.
Provided that:
(i) interest, taxes on interest, provision for repay-
ment of loans and other expenses arising from
borrowing transactions shall not be considered
as Operating Expenses; and
(ii) subventions or credits.-from the Guarantor or
the State, and taxes or levies collected by the
Borrower as agent, shall not be considered as
operating revenue.
(e) "Operating Surplus" means the excess of Revenuels
over Operating Expenses, and "Operating Loss" means
the excess of Operating Expenses over Revenue2.
(f) "Prescribed Rate of Return" means the rates speci-
fled in Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement.
(g) "Required Revenue" means the sum of the follow-
S           ing:
(i) estimated Operating Expenses, appearing in
the Borrower's approved budget for the cur-
r.ent year but adjusted in such manner as the
Bank may approve or require if it appears that
the amounts estimated will be excessive or
inadequate;
(ii) any deficiency brought forward from previous
years, as calculated under paragraph 6; and
(iii) the amount found by multiplying the estimated
closing net Fixed Assets for the current year
by the Prescribed Rate of Return.
(h) "Billings" in relation to any year means the
amounts billed by the Borrower, less charges cancelled, for
the four quarters of the year in respect of charges for
water supply and sewage collection but not taxes additional
thereto.


﻿28
2. At the beginning of each year the Borrower shall
revise the value of its Fixed Assets in service at the end
of the preceding year in accordance with the Monetary
Correction Index for that preceding year, and deduct there-
from the accumulated Depreciation recalculated on the
revalued assets, to produce the opening net Fixed Assets
for the current year.
3. The Borrower 'shall estimate the net addition to its
Fixed Assets which will occur during the current year, less
the amount which will be charged as Depreciation during
the year and add the result to the opening net Fixed Assets
to arrive at the estimated closing net Fixed Assets for the
current year.
4. The Borrower shall then estimate the quantity of
water it will bill during the current year, and calculate
what revenue such billing (including charges for sewage
collection) would have produced at the average rates in
force during the preceding year, subject to a deduction of
57 for irrecoverable bills. Where charges were revised
during the preceding year (other than for monetary correc-
tion or changes in the official minimum salary), and the
revision still had effect at the end of that year, the calcu-
lation shall be made as if the same proportionate increase
or decrease in charges had been in force throughout the
year.
5. The Required Revenue shall be divided by the amount
calculated in paragraph 4; and if the quotient exceeds
unity, the Borrower shall not later than 1st April in the
current year increase its charges for water supply and
sewerage services by the proportion by which the quotient
exceeds unity; such increase shall be additional to any
revision required by changes in the official minimum salary
or otherwise for monetary correction.
6. At or immediately after the close of each year, the
Borrower shall ascertain whether the Prescribed Rate of


﻿29
Return was achieved in that year, in the following manner.
The average value of net Fixed Assets for the year shall
be calculated as half the sum of the values of: (a) the Fixed
Assets in service less accumulated Depreciation at 31st
December in that year; and (b) the Fixed Assets in service
less accumulated Depreciation at the preceding 31st Decem-
ber, all valued in accordance with the Monetary Correction
Index for the year for which the calculation is being made.
The value thus ascertained shall be multiplied by the Pre-
scribed Rate of Return and the product compared with the
Operating Surplus or Operating Loss for the year. The
amount, if any, by which the product exceeds the Operating
Surplus (or, as the ease may be, the product added to
the Operating Loss), shall be treated as a deficiency and
included in the Required Revenue in fixing the charges for
the coming year.


