Report No. PIC1937
Project Name       Mali-Decentralization and Urban Infrastructure Project
Region                          Africa
Sector                          Urban Development / Infrastructure
Project ID                     MLPA1750
Borrower                        Government of Mali
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Urbanism and Housing
Contact: S.E. Mme Sy Kadiatou Sow, Minister of
Urbanism and Housing
Bamako, Mali
Tel: 22 29 02
Fax: 23 06 33
AGETIP-MALI (Agence d+execution de Travaux
d+interet Public pour l+Emploi)
Contact: Mr. Lamine Ben Barka, Directeur
General
Bamako, Mali
Tel: 223 22 09 60
Fax: 223 22 09 71
ACI (Agence de Cession Immobiliere)
Contact: Mr. Traore
Bamako, Mali
Tel: 22 88 08
Date PID Prepared              March 29, 1995
Projected Board Date           May 28, 1996
Country/Sector Background
1.    Mali's urban population has grown rapidly, at an average rate of
6.49 annually between 1960 and 1990, compared to a total population
growth rate of 2.7w annually, even though Mali remains a predominantly
agricultural country with the rural population representing around 75t
of the total which is 9,000,000. Nevertheless, trends over the past 35
years show urban areas growing faster than the rural sector.       In 1960,
the urban population was 270,000 (59 of the total population); this
reached 1,860,000 (23w of the total) in 1990, and is estimated to grow
to 5,600,000 (38w of the total) by 2020.    The capital, Bamako, which had
a population of 320,000 in 1972 and which has reached now 900,000, is
estimatyed to reach 1,370,000 in 2005. Only a few other towns have more
than 40,000 inhabitants: Sbgou (88,000), Mopti (75,000), Sikasso
(74,000), Gao (55,000), Kayes (51,000) and Koutiala (49,000).
2.    More than half of the total GDP is generated within urban areas. It
is estimated that the contribution of secondary and tertiary sectors to
GDP grew at an average rate of about 10t in real terms between 1987 and
1992, versus 3.6w for the total. However, given the high rate of urban
population growth, per capita urban productivity is increasing slower
than that of the primary sector.
3.    Municipal revenues are very low    with an annual budget average of



about CFAF 50 million (US$ 100,000) in the main cities, except for the
District of Bamako that has a budget of CFAF 1.5 billion (US$ 3
million). Revenues are insufficient because of a narrow tax base
combined with massive tax evasion and inadequate cost recovery of
municipal services provided by local governments. Municipal
expenditures are not managed efficiently, first, because municipal
governments do not have adequate technical and managerial resources, and
second, because they do not have an institutional framework with well-
defined responsibilities and resources delineated between the central
and local governments.
4.    Housing markets function poorly as demonstrated by chronic housing
shortages. This results mainly on complicated juridical status and/or
inadequate institutional capacity to develop land. It results too from
non-transparent land rationing mechanisms, a lack of incentives for
privately owned rental housing projects, and a shortage of medium and
long term financing for home buyers. It results also from informal and
anarchic land market, insufficient cost recovery from previous urban
land developments, or non reinvestment of cost recovered in land
development.
5.    As a result, Mali's cities are under-managed and lack basic
infrastructure and services. The gap between demand for and supply of
all types of municipal services is increasing: water, roads, drainage,
garbage collection, electricity, land management, housing,
transportation, etc. Unauthorized settlements in peripheral urban
areas, which lack basic services and infrastructure, are absorbing the
most important part of the population increase and suburban land
available. Furthermore, existing infrastructure is falling increasingly
into disrepair exacerbating the degradation of the urban environment.
6.    The urban centers will continue to grow faster than the country as
a whole. As a result, their relative economic importance will continue
to increase. It is crucial that the productivity of urban centers be
increased to enable them to contribute to the country's economic
development. Two urban projects financed by IDA (Cr. 943-MLI and Cr.
1677-MLI) have already helped move towards this goal. Government is
seeking to decentralize authority. During the stage of decentralization,
with the newly elected municipalities, efforts are needed to strengthen
institutions, municipal, and housing finances, and improve urban
infrastructure and environment, with a sound decentralization and urban
sector strategy.
Project Objectives
7.    The project will help the central and local governments implement
a decentralization strategy, and a policy of capacity building to manage
urban infrastructure. The project main objectives would be: (a) to
strengthen local governments+ management and performance in the main
cities, to increase municipal revenues through improved collection
mechanisms, emphasing cost recovery service by service; to increase the
efficiency of municipal urban management and expenditures through
strengthened managerial and technical resources, and greater reliance on
contracting out municipal services to the private sector; (b) to improve
the urban infrastructure and environment in Bamako and in the region
- 2 -



capital cities; and (c) to pursue the development of local enterprises,
and the alleviation of poverty by creating employment through the
execution of urban civil works using labor-intensive methods.
Project Description
8.    The proposed project is designed around the Government+s policy of
decentralization, supported by a parallel donor-assisted program of
investments in the urban sector (in the region and nation capital
cities). The program would include three main components: (a) an
institutional development, capacity building and training component; (b)
an investment component to improve the urban infrastructure and
environment including small urban civil works using labor-intensiver
methods (to be delegated to AGETIPE by the Municipalities); and (c) a
land development component (serviced land for housing, marketplaces,
road transport stations).
Project Financing
9.    The total project cost is provisionally estimated at US$    million
for a five-year investment program in the urban infrastructure sector.
IDA funding will amount to (US$ 80 million). The central and local
governments will finance counterpart funding equivalent to US$ 7
million. Additional funding may be expected from other donors (AfDB,
EFD, Canada, France, Germany, Japan) to finance the equivalent of the
remaining of US$ million gap. This financing will be secured by
increasing taxes and enhancing their collection (specially for municipal
taxes), increasing user charges, and auctioning serviced plots for
housing, marketplaces, and road transport stations. Part of the credit
will be onlent to the District of Bamako, another part to three (or all)
municipalities (Mopti, Segou, Sikasso), and the land development
component to ACI (Agence de Cession Immobilijre, set up during the
Second Urban Project).
Project Implementation
10.   The institutional development component will be implemented by the
Ministry of Urbanism and Housing; part of the second component will be
implemented by the District of Bamako (by the technical unit which was
set up during the Second Urban Project), the other part will be
implemented by the municipalities concerned (included the municipalities
of Bamako), with AGETIPE as management consultant (and probably as
executing agency for the small urban civil works); the land development
component will probably be implemented by ACI. Institutional
arrangements will be agreed upon at appraisal. A master urban plan (plan
durbanisme de reference), and a program of urban infrastructure
development (programme de dbveloppement des infrastructures urbaines)
will be established for each of the concerned cities before appraisal.
The main infrastructure subprojects will be clearly identified; the
other subprojects will be proposed annually, by the municipalities, in
reference to the program of development. IDA will sign project
agreements with the municipalities (Bamako, Mopti, Sbgou, Sikasso), so
that they commit themselves to improving their management and resources.
Project Sustainability
-3-



11.   The project sustainability will be assured by:    (a) institutional
reforms and instruments to be introduced to strengthen the local
governments+ management and performance in the main cities, to increase
municipal revenues through improved collection mechanisms and emphasing
cost recovery service by service; the efficiency of the municipal urban
management and expenditures will be increased by strengthening
managerial and technical resources, and relying more heavely on
contracting out municipal services to the private sector; (b) cost
recovery for the serviced land and reinvestment in land development; and
(c) development of the Malian construction industry and strengthening
the existing agencies.
Lessons Learned from past Operations in the Sector
12.   IDA has already been involved in two urban development projects in
Mali. The First Urban Development Project (Cr. 943-MLI, approved on June
26, 1979, and completed on December 31, 1986) concerned Bamako, Kayes,
and Mopti. This project met its objectives in assisting the Government
in providing affordable urban services, particularly shelter, water
supply, garbage collection, drainage, schools and health care to low-
income residents. However, problems in cost recovery and institutional
development (introduction of several new agencies at once) resulted from
project design. One of the other lessons of the project was the need for
a general financial office within each municipality. This will be a
project conditionality.
13.   The Second Urban Development Project (Cr. 1677-MLI, approved on
April 1, 1986, and completed on March 31, 1994) concerned Bamako. The
project+s major objectives were: removing the major citywide
infrastructure constraints, large increase in the supply of serviced
land with security of tenure, improving local resource mobilization,
strengthening the capacity of urban institutions. The project met its
principal objectives and opened the way for the auctioning of serviced
plots through ACI. The sales of plots have already covered the full cost
of the operation. Furthermore, taxes on these sales procured the
District and the State important resources, and a profit about more than
FCFA 1.0 billion has been deposited into an investment fund.
Unfortunately, this fund has not been used to prepare new serviced
plots, ACI having been only an auctioning agency. The amendment of ACI+s
statutes to make it a land development agency is underway. The massive
serviced lot project failed as a poverty alleviation measure, because
the prices, with cost recovery, became unaffordable to many families
below the poverty line. Cost recovery for urban services remained
problematic. The resources of plots sales will be reinvested in land
development. Part of the plots will be amenaged with a low level to be
affordable for the low income population.
14.   The Public Works and Capacity Building Project (Cr. 2371-MLI,
approved on May 12, 1992 and a Supplemental Credit approved in November
1994) is going very well. The high performance of the executing agency,
AGETIPE-MALI, is well known. The Project+s objectives have been reached,
indeed surpassed. To make the mayors more responsible in programming
their investments in urban infrastructure, and in managing and
maintaining it, part of the credit should be onlent to the
municipalities. The previous public works should be part of the program
- 4 -



of urban infrastructure development, thus part of the urban project. The
execution of works would be delegated to AGETIPE as management
consultant or as executing agency, and the use of labor-intensive
methods, where
appropriate, should continue.
Poverty Category
15.   The poverty category is to be determined. Special investments will
be oriented toward poor and disadvantaged neighborhoods. Furthermore,
one of the criteria for the selection of small civil work subprojects to
be proposed by the municipalities, will be the direct impact on poverty
and employment creation. It is expected that at least 70- of the
temporary jobs created, particularly for the small urban civil works,
will be offered to unskilled workers. In addition, the inclusion of the
secondary cities will make it possible to reach people who have not
previously been able to benefit from government investments, specially
in the poorest regions of the country in the North ( Kidal, Timbuktu,
Gao).
Environmental Aspects
16.   A category B is proposed for this project. This classification will
be confirmed during appraisal, when the final program and preliminary
studies of works will be confirmed. Water supply and sanitation
subprojects, especially in Bamako and Mopti, will improve the
environment and conditions of living. An assessment of the impact on
environment of the two previous urban projects, and of this project,
will be carried out before appraisal. All the components will include
actions for protecting and improving the environment. There will be
probably no resettlement issues involved.
Program Objective Categories
17.   This project will support the improvement of the cities'
productivity by promoting local governments and population participation
in development projects, better local governments+ urban and municipal
management, and improvement of the urban infrastructure and environment.
It will reduce poverty by creating employment, particularly through
labor-intensive methods in executing the civil works. It also improves
the development of the private sector in executing the civil works,
providing municipal services, and in land development.
Project Benefits
18.   The project main benefits would be:   (a) strengthening the role of
local governments in projects development; (b) improvement of the
municipalities financial resources and cost recovery, to move to more
sustainable development; (c) a high economic return of the planned
investments and improvement of the living conditions; (d) high economic
and social impact on the population through the jobs the project will
create; and (e) development of the private sector.
Risks
-5-



19.   The principal project risks stem from the fact that the central
government may be unable to implement the decentralization and urban
policy reform, or to remove the obstacles to the mobilization and
allocation of adequate financial resources to the municipalities. They
stem also from the unability of the local government to implement the
reforms affecting the mobilization of adequate financial resources for
counterpart funding and infrastructure maintenance. These risks are
minimized by the strong ownership demonstrated by the central and local
governments during project preparation, the close monitoring of
performance indicators of the municipalities and public investment
programs, and prolonged and close coordination with other donors.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



