Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N004 MLI
ACI Project Agreement
(Urban Development and Decentralization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of 
the interim trust fund established with funds contributed 
by certain members of International Development Association 
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors 
of International Development Association
and
AGENCE DE CESSION IMMOBILIERE
Dated December 19, 1996
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N004 MLI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1996, between AGENCE DE CESSION IMMOBILIERE (ACI) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Mali (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the Administrator has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fifty-five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that ACI agree to undertake such obligations toward the Administrator as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ACI, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be relent to ACI on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ACI, in consideration of the Administrator's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ACI declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and land 
development practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part E of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower, ACI and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the ACI 
shall carry out Part E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, including the Project 
Implementation Plan and the Environmental Mitigation Plan.
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part E of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ACI shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the ACI Project 
Agreement and Part E of the Project.
(b)
For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, ACI shall:
(i)
prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator 
and furnish 
to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request, for the 
continued achievement of the objectives of 
Part E of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. ACI shall duly perform all its obligations under the ACI 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, ACI 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the ACI Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ACI shall, at the request of the Administrator, exchange views 
with the Administrator with regard to the progress of Part E of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the ACI Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ACI shall promptly inform the Administrator of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part E of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ACI of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the ACI  Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provision of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement,  ACI shall participate in the annual reviews and the midterm review 
referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively, of Schedule 4 to the Development 
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower and the 
Administrator such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail as 
the Borrower or the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the progress and status 
of the Project; and (ii) following each such review, promptly take, or assist the 
Borrower in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming 
noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist the Borrower in 
implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ACI
Section 3.01. (a) ACI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and land development 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
ACI shall ensure that its positions of general manager, technical 
director and financial director shall be filled at all times by persons with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Administrator.
Section 3.02. ACI shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and power 
transmission and distribution practices.
Section 3.03. ACI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. ACI shall at all times ensure that its land development activities 
represent at least 2/3 of its chiffre d’affaire.
Section 3.05. ACI shall: (a) offer for sale through public auction, in 
accordance with procedures and criteria acceptable to the Administrator, at least 70% 
of the lots to be developed under Part E of the Project, and (b) ensure that the 
proceeds of the sale of lots developed under Part E of the Project are used 
exclusively to finance the development of additional lots for housing.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  ACI  shall  maintain  records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including its operations in respect to the Project.
(b)
ACI shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), including those of 
the Special Account D , for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Administrator and of 
ACI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Administrator shall promptly notify ACI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ACI:
Agence de Cessions Immobilières
Aboubacar Haidara
199, rue 402 Dravela Bolibana
B.P. 2485
Mali
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ACI, or by ACI 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the General Manager of ACI or such other person or persons as the General 
Page  5
Manager of ACI shall designate in writing, and ACI shall furnish to the Administrator 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Regional Vice President
Africa 
AGENCE DE CESSION IMMOBILIERE
By  /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Authorized Representative
