Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N004 MLI
Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Development and Decentralization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund 
established with funds contributed by certain 
members of International Development Association 
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of International Development Association
Dated December 19, 1996
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N004 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS: (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter of sector policy, dated 
October 10, 1996, from the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies approved by its Council of Ministers on September 25, 1996, designed to 
promote and strengthen its urban sector (hereinafter referred to as "the Program"), 
and declaring its commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
Page  2
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(D)
Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by Agence d’Exécution de 
Travaux d’ Intérêt Public pour l’Emploi (AGETIPE-MALI), Part D of the Project will be 
carried out by Energie du Mali (EDM), and Part E of the Project will be carried out by 
Agence de Cession Immobilière (ACI), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to AGETIPE-MALI, EDM, and ACI, 
respectively, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the EDM Project Agreement between the 
Administrator and EDM, in the ACI Project Agreement between the Administrator and ACI, 
and in the AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement between the Administrator and AGETIPE-MALI, 
all of even date herewith;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, “Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country of the Association or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied 
from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose 
of any payment to persons or entities, or for  any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is 
prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United 
Nations."; (f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General 
Conditions, the term “Association” shall also mean the International Development 
Association 
acting in its own capacity; and
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect 
to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a continuous 
Page  3
period of thirty days, or (b) at  any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary 
of the Interim Fund Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Administrator to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Credit shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, the 
Administrator 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the 
Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ACI" means Agence de Cessions Immobilières established and operating 
under its Statutes and under Ordonnance No. 92-001 P.GTSP of January 15, 1992, in 
accordance with the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
"Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(c)
"AGETIPE-MALI Framework Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and AGETIPE-MALI (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the AGETIPE-MALI Framework Agreement;
(d)
"EDM Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and EDM (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 3.01 
(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the EDM Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
(e)
"ACI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ACI (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the ACI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)
"FCFA" means the currency of the Borrower;
(g)
"AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and AGETIPE-MALI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement;
(h)
"EDM Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
EDM, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the EDM Project Agreement;
(i)
"ACI Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Administrator and 
ACI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the ACI Project Agreement;
(j)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan containing inter alia 
schedules, monitoring indicators, timetables, and other arrangements for the purpose 
Page  4
of implementing the Project, adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the Borrower’s plan dated September 
1996 containing actions, procedures, timetables, and other arrangements designed to 
mitigate the Project’s potential adverse impact on the environment;
(l)
“Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or the end of 
subsequent Project Years;
(m)
"Project Cities" means the Borrower's cities of Bamako, Gao, Kayes, 
Kidal, Koulikoro, Mopti, Sevaré, Segou, Sikasso, and Tumbuktu;
(n)
"AGETIPE-MALI Operational Manual" means the manual attached to the 
AGETIPE-MALI Framework Agreement, setting out, inter alia, criteria, procedures, and 
guidelines for the implementation of Parts B and C of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all annexes, schedules, and 
attachments thereto;
(o)
"AGETIPE-MALI" means Agence d’Exécution de Travaux d’ Intérêt Public pour 
l’Emploi established and operating under Record No. 0299/MATDB dated April 10, 1992, 
and in accordance with its Statutes and Rules, under the laws of the Borrower;
(p)
"EDM" means Energie du Mali, a public corporation established and 
operating under Ordonnance No. 26/PGP, dated October 14, 1960, as amended on December 
6, 1989, and Law No. 92.002 of August 27, 1992 of the laws of the Borrower;
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Administrator to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
March 25, 1996 and April 10, 1996 between the Borrower and the Administrator;
(r)
"PCU" means the Project Coordinating Unit established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s May 31, 1996;
(s)
"MUH" means the Borrower’s Ministère de l’Urbanisme et de l’Habitat; and 
(t)
“Urban Infrastructure Maintenance Account” means the account referred to 
in Section 2.06 of the AGETIPE Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount equivalent to fifty-five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 55,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA four special deposit accounts ( Special Account A for PCU, Special Account B for 
AGETIPE-MALI, Special Account C for EDM, and Special Account D for ACI) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to itself the 
Page  5
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2007 and ending 
September 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
September 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or 
more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  6
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. AGETIPE-MALI, EDM, and ACI are respectively designated as 
representatives of the Borrower in respect of Parts B and C, Part D, and Part E of the 
Project, respectively, for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to 
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part A of the Project through PCU with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial 
practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other 
resources required for such Part of the Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall: (A) cause 
AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI to carry out 
Parts B, C, D and E of Project, 
respectively; (B) cause 
AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI to perform, in accordance 
with the provisions 
of the AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement, the EDM Project 
Agreement and the ACI Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of 
AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI therein set forth; (C) shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI 
to perform such obligations; and (D) shall not 
take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part A of the Project, and shall cause AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI to 
carry out Parts B and C, D, and E of the Project, respectively, all in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available, out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit, the amount allocated to Categories  (1) (a) and (b), (2) (b), (3) (b), 
(c) and (4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to 
AGETIPE-MALI, on a grant basis, under an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and AGETIPE-MALI, and under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (c) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to EDM under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and EDM, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, which shall include, inter alia: (A) an interest rate 
of at least 7.7% per annum, on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, (B) the principal to be repaid in 25 years, including a 
grace period of five years, and (C) provisions requiring EDM to bear the foreign 
exchange risk; and (ii) make available, out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit, the amount allocated to Categories (3) (d) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to EDM, on a grant basis, under an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and EDM, and under terms and conditions which shall 
Page  7
have been approved by the Administrator.
(e)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (d) and (3) (e) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to ACI under a subsidiary loan agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and ACI under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Administrator and which shall include: (i) interest payable 
by ACI of at least 7.7% per annum on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, (ii) repayment by ACI of principal in 25 years 
including a grace period of five (5) years, and (iii) provisions requiring ACI to bear 
the foreign exchange risk.
(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the AGETIPE-MALI Framework 
Agreement, the EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the ACI Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
AGETIPE-MALI Framework Agreement, the EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the ACI 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitations thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: 
(a) Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried out by AGETIPE-MALI pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement; (b) Part D of the Project shall be 
carried out by EDM pursuant to Section 2.03 of the EDM Project Agreement; and (c) Part 
E of the Project shall be carried out by ACI pursuant to Section 2.03 of the ACI 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
(i) deposit in the Urban Infrastructure Maintenance Account an initial 
amount equivalent to its estimated share of funds required for the maintenance of 
urban infrastructure in the Project Cities during the first quarter of each year, as 
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrator at the beginning of 
each year (the Borrower’s Initial Deposit); and (ii) thereafter, at quarterly 
intervals, deposit into the Urban Infrastructure Maintenance Account such amounts as 
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrator for the maintenance of 
urban infrastructure in the Project Cities; and
(b)
cause the local government of each of the Project Cities to: (i) deposit 
into the Urban Infrastructure Maintenance Account an initial amount equivalent to its 
estimated share of funds required  for the maintenance of infrastructure located 
within its jurisdiction during the first quarter of each year, as shall be agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Administrator at the beginning of each year (the Project 
Cities’ Initial Deposit); and (ii) thereafter, at quarterly  intervals, deposit into 
the Urban Infrastructure Maintenance Account such amounts as shall be agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Administrator for the maintenance of urban infrastructure 
Page  8
located within its jurisdiction.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for Special Account A for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account or payment out of Special 
Account A was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
AGETIPE-MALI, EDM or ACI shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement, the EDM Project 
Page  9
Agreement, or the ACI Project Agreement, respectively;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the AGETIPE-MALI, EDM or ACI will be able to perform 
their obligations under AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement, the EDM Project Agreement, or 
the ACI Project Agreement, respectively;
(d)
The Statutes or By-laws of AGETIPE-MALI shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect its 
ability to perform any of its obligations under the AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement;
(e)
Ordonnance No. 28/PGP, dated October 14, 1960, as modified on December 6, 
1989; and Law No. 92-002, dated August 27, 1992 shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
EDM to perform any of its obligations under the EDM Project Agreement;
(f)
The Statutes of ACI and Ordonnance No. 92-001/P-CTSP shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of ACI to perform any of its obligations under the ACI Project 
Agreement; and
(g)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AGETIPE-MALI, EDM or ACI or  the 
suspension of their operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs  (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Plan and an 
Environmental Mitigation Plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator;
(b)
the AGETIPE-MALI Framework Agreement, the EDM Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement, and the ACI Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed between the 
Borrower and AGETIPE-MALI, EDM, and ACI, respectively; 
(c)
(i)  the Urban Infrastructure Maintenance Account has been opened, and 
(ii) the Borrower’s Initial Deposit and the Project Cities’ Initial Deposits referred 
to in Section 3.05 (a) and (b) of this Agreement have been made; 
(d)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
(e)
the Borrower has furnished to the Administrator evidence that accounting 
systems for the implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the Administrator, has 
been established; 
(f)
EDM has adopted the action plan referred to in Section 2.07. of the EDM 
Project Agreement; and
Page  10
(g)
AGETIPE has prepared standard bidding documents, acceptable to the 
Administrator, for contracts for works and goods to be awarded in accordance with the 
provision of Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the purposes of carrying out 
Parts B and C of the Project during the First Project Year.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator:
(a)
that the AGETIPE-MALI Project Agreement, the EDM Project Agreement and 
the ACI Project Agreement, have been duly authorized or ratified by AGETIPE-MALI, EDM 
and ACI, respectively, and are legally binding upon  AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI, 
respectively, in accordance with their terms; and 
(b)
that the AGETIPE-MALI Framework Agreement, the EDM Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement and the ACI Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI, respectively, and are legally binding 
upon the Borrower and AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI, respectively, in accordance with 
their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association decide to 
terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim Fund 
pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Sections 2.09, 2.10 and 2.11 of this 
Agreement, the Minister responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower and the Administrator:
Ministry of Finance
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Telex:
2559
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  11
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By  /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By  /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
  Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit
    Allocated
  % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works:
90% 
(a)
for Part B
21,900,000
of the Project
(b)
for Part C
 1,900,000
of the Project
(c)
for Part D
 5,200,000
of the Project
(d)
for Part E
 4,700,000
of the Project
(2)
Equipment
 
100% of foreign 
 expenditures 
and 
90% of local 
expenditures
(a)
for Part A 
   800,000
of the Project
(b)
for Part B
   800,000
of the Project
Page  12
(3)
Consultants' Services,
 
100%
and Training
(a)
for Part A
 3,700,000 
of the Project
(b)
for Part B
 4,500,000
of the Project
(c)
for Part C
   400,000
of the Project
(d)
for Part D
 1,500,000
of the Project
(e)
for Part E
   500,000
of the Project
(4)
Operating Costs
100%
(a) PCU
   500,000
(b) AGETIPE-MALI 
 1,600,000
(5)
Refunding of
   600,000
Amounts due
Project Preparation
pursuant to
Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement 
(6)
Unallocated
 6,900,000
 _________
TOTAL
55,500,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures"; and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means incremental Project-related costs 
incurred by PCU under Part A of the Project, and AGETIPE-MALI under Parts B and C of 
the Project, on account of operations and maintenance of vehicle and equipment, 
transport, communications (phone, fax, mail), office supplies acquisition, office rent 
and utilities payment, and local staff salaries and allowances (excluding those for 
civil servants with the Borrower’s civil service).
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  and 
(b)
expenditures under Categories (1) (d) and (3) (d), until the 
Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that the 
Borrower has adopted water tariffs at a level acceptable tot the Administrator.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil 
Page  13
works, under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent, (b) goods, under contracts 
not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, (c) services of consulting firms, under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (d) services of individual consultants, under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the delivery by the Borrower's local 
governments of basic urban services.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening urban management capacities of local governments of the Project 
Cities, through provision of  technical advisory services to: 
(a)
carry out studies on: (i) urban taxation system, (ii)  urban land tenure 
legal framework, (iii) land management, and (iv) operation and management of 
marketplaces and transport stations; 
(b)
prepare detailed urban mapping, and update the Borrower's urban 
infrastructure inventory;
(c)
assign addresses to streets and lots and collect data for taxation 
purposes;
(d)
establish accounting systems for local governments; and
(e)
strengthen the capacities of local governments in the preparation, 
implementation, and supervision of investment programs.
2.
Acquisition of equipment for the purposes of carrying out the above Parts 1. 
(b), (c), (d), and (e) of the Project.
3.
Strengthening MUH's urban management and monitoring capacities, through 
provision of technical advisory services and training, and acquisition of equipment.
4.
Training of the Borrower’s central and local government official and staff in 
legal and environmental aspects of land management and regulation, and municipal 
management, programming, finance, accounting, budgeting, and procurement.
5.
Training of staff of local consultancy firms in construction and management 
techniques.
Part B:
Basic Urban Infrastructure
1.
Rehabilitation of urban roads and construction of new urban roads, drains, 
bridges, traffic signals, road signs, through provision of technical advisory 
services, acquisition of equipment and the carrying out of civil works.
2.
Implementation of pilot programs to strengthen the sanitation, drainage, and 
solid-waste collection, transport, and management systems in Bamako and Mopti-Sevaré, 
through the carrying out of civil works, provision of technical advisory services and 
acquisition of equipment.
3.
Improving safe water supply and street lighting in selected poor neighborhoods 
in Project Cities, through the carrying out of civil works, provision of technical 
services and acquisition of equipment. 
4.
Construction and rehabilitation of transport stations in Bamako and 
Mopti-Sevaré, through the carrying of civil works, and provision of technical advisory 
Page  14
services.
Part C:
Historic Sites
Restoration and preservation of the historic sites of Djingareyber, Sankoré and 
Sidi Yahya in Timbuktu, through the carrying of civil works, and provision of 
technical advisory services.
Part D:
Water Supply
Extension and improvement of water transmission and distribution networks in 
Bamako and Mopti, through the carrying out of civil works, and provision of technical 
advisory services and training.
Part E:
Land Development for Housing
Land development for housing in Bamako, through the carrying out of civil works, 
and provision of technical advisory services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Civil works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract up to 
$25,670,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, and goods estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or less per contract up to $670,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Page  15
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than 30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to each contract for: (a) civil works, estimated to cost more 
than the equivalent of $500,000, (b) goods, estimated to cost more than the equivalent 
of $150,000.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
schedule, Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed 
by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
Page  16
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: (i) implement Part A of the Project, through PCU, (ii) cause 
AGETIPE-MALI to implement Parts B and C of the Project, (iii) cause EDM to implement 
Part D of the Project, and (iv) cause ACI to implement Part E of the Project, all in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and with the Environmental Mitigation 
Plan. PCU shall be responsible for the overall coordination of the implementation of 
the Project. MCC shall be responsible for the supervision of the implementation of 
Part C of the Project.
2.
Before the beginning of each Project Year, for the purposes of Part B of the 
Project, the Borrower shall enter into a Contrat de Ville with the local government of 
each of the Project Cities, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Administrator. 
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance 
indicators satisfactory to the Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Administrator for its review and comments quarterly 
progress reports on the status of the Project;
(c)
not later than July 15 of each  year, commencing on July 15, 1997, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Administrator, AGETIPE-MALI, ACI, EDM and the local 
governments of the Project Cities, a joint annual review on all matters relating to 
the Project and, in particular, the progress achieved during the current fiscal year, 
having regard to the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph;
(d)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Administrator: (i) for its approval, a proposed annual work program, including a 
proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal year, and (ii) for its 
review, a report in such detail as  the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the 
progress of the Project during the current year; and
(e)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take, or assist ACI, EDM, and AGETIPE-MALI in taking, any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, 
or to implement, or assist ACI, EDM and AGETIPE-MALI in implementing, such measures as 
may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project.
4.
Midterm Review
(a)
By the end of the  third Project Year, the Borrower shall carry out 
jointly with the Administrator, AGETIPE-MALI, EDM, ACI, and the local governments of 
the Project Cities a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
under terms of reference agreed with the Administrator.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Administrator a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
Page  17
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review,  
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Administrator, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program, and assist AGETIPE-MALI, EDM and ACI in 
implementing such action program.
5.
The Borrower shall carry out the studies on the operation and management of 
marketplaces referred to in Part A.1 (a) (iv) of the Project during the first Project 
Year, and shall take all measures necessary on its part to implement the 
recommendations of said studies, as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, by the beginning of the second Project Year.
6.
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the studies on urban taxation referred to in 
Part A. 1. (a) (i) of the Project during the first Project Year, and (ii) not later 
than eighteen months after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its part 
to implement the recommendations of said studies, as shall be agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Administrator, including, as the case may be, the imposition of new 
fees for urban services provided by the Borrower’s local governments.
7.
(a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the level of water tariffs in the Project Cities; 
and (b) unless the Administrator agree otherwise, the Borrower shall take all actions 
necessary on its part to allow EDM to maintain its water tariffs at all times during 
the implementation of the Project at a level that would at least cover its 
water-related operations and maintenance expenses. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special Account A, 
Categories (2) (a), (3) (a), and (4) (a), in the case of Special Account B, 
Categories  (1) (a) (1) (b), (2) (b), and (3) (b), (3) (c) and (4) (b), in the case of 
Special Account C, Categories (1) (c), and (3) (d); and, in the case of Special 
Account D, Categories (1) (d), and (3) (e), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means each of the amounts, to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A, to 
CFAF 150,000,000, in the case of Special Account B, to CFAF 1,200,000,000 in the case 
of Special Account C, to CFAF 300,000,000, and in the case of Special Account D, to 
CFAF 200,000,000, provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation for:
(i)
Special Account A shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
150,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of  SDR 500,000; 
(ii)
Special Account B shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
800,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of  SDR 3,000,000; 
Page  18
(iii)
Special Account C shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
150,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of  SDR 1,000,000; and
(iv)
Special Account D shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
100,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of  SDR 600,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Accounts 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the Special 
Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation for the Special Account for which the deposit is requested.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account in 
question such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Accounts at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Accounts such amount as the 
Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Accounts 
for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account in 
Page  19
question;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the respective Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special Account in question 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures under such categories.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account in question (or, if the Administrator 
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into such Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
