                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 34791

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IF-N0040 PPFI-P9790)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55.50 MILLION
                              (US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF MALI

          FOR THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT




                                    December 29, 2005




Water, Urban and Energy
Central and Western Africa
Country Department 15
Africa Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective November 11, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                              CFAF 1 Million = US$ 1,789.52
                                      US$ 1.0 = CFAF 558.808
                                    SDR 1.0 = 1.42669
                                      FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    -    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACI      Agence de Cession Immobilière (Land Auctioning Agency)
AfD      Agence Française de Développement
AGETIPE  Agence d'Exécution de Travaux d'lntérêt Public pour l'Emploi (Public Works Executing
         Agency)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF     CFA Franc
CFD      Caisse Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
EDM      Energie du Mali (Malian Utility Company)
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU       European Union
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ICCROM   International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property
IDA      International Development Association
KfW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MCC      Ministry of Culture and Communication
MNFT     Ministry of Finance and Trade
MMEH     Ministry of Mining, Energy, and Hydraulics
MTPT     Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MUH      Ministry of Urban Planning and Housing
NGOs     Nongovernmental Organizations
NPV      Net Present Value
PCC      Project Coordination Committee
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PWCBP    Public Works and Capacity Building Project
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization



                               Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                    Acting Country Director:       Diarietou Gaye
                             Sector Manager:       Eustache Ouayoro
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Mahine Diop

                                             MALI
                               ML-Urb Dev & Decentr (FY97)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Partner's Contributions                                                 33

Project ID: P001750                                                  Project Name: ML-Urb Dev & Decentr (FY97)
Team Leader: Mahine Diop                                             TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ML-Urb Dev & Decentr (FY97)                              L/C/TF Number: IF-N0040; PPFI-P9790
   Country/Department: MALI                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (42%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector
                            (28%); General public administration sector (25%); Other social services (5%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Municipal finance (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (P); Pollution management and environmental health (P); Land
                            administration and management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/19/1991                                     Effective: 03/18/1997                06/19/1997
     Appraisal: 05/30/1996                                         MTR: 07/22/2001                  07/22/2001
      Approval: 12/13/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF MALI/MINISTRY OF URBAN PLANNING &
                                           HOUSING/MUNICIPALITIES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean -Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:                Alassane Diawara                               Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Eustache Ouayoro                               Max Pulgar-Vidal
Team Leader at ICR:             Mahine Diop                                    Abdelghani Inal
ICR Primary Author:             Mahine Diop; Armele Vilceus;
                                Aoua Toure Sow


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Urban Development and Decentralization Project (UDDP), as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report, was to improve the delivery, on a sustainable basis, of urban infrastructure services by
local governments, in partnership with the Central Government, the private sector, and communities. More
precisely, the project's specific objectives were to:
(a)      build local government management capacity, improve performance, strengthen operations and
         maintenance, and improve planning, programming, budgeting, financial management,
         and revenue generation;
(b)      improve the provision of basic urban services, especially in the poorest neighborhoods;
(c)      help preserve Mali's historical cities and monuments; and
(d)      pursue improvements in the operation of the urban land market initiated under the IDA-assisted
         Second Urban Project.

The objectives of the project were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
focused on building capacity of municipalities and the central government, job creation to reduce poverty
and to develop basic infrastructures. The project was timely to address urban issues characterized by a
rapid growth of Mali's urban population (5% per year on average), very limited access to basic
infrastructure (more than 50% of the population lived below the poverty level), a deterioration of existing
urban infrastructure for lack of maintenance, and insufficient municipal financial resources. The project
objectives were further in line with the Government's strategy for the urban sector, whose main goal was to
improve provision of basic urban services.

These objectives remain valid in light of the current CAS (of 2003), which anticipates a follow-on
operation, based on ongoing Economic and Sector Work for the urban sector in Mali. It is envisaged that
the follow-on operation will focus on secondary cities and on strengthening the capacities of the
municipalities and other decentralized entities to manage resources and development programs.

As of today, and with respect to the MDGs, the objectives of the project are still relevant in terms of
increasing access to basic urban services (water and sanitation) and improving the lives of slum dwellers.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised five components. As a whole, these components set out a comprehensive program of
activities, designed to achieve the objectives of the project.

Component 1: Capacity building (US$7.4 million, 6% of the program cost, out of which US$7.1 will be
financed by IDA).

This component comprised eight sub-components:

(1) Introduction of municipal support measures; (2) Introduction of urban management tools; (3) Assigning
addresses to streets and lots and collecting fiscal data in the four major cities; (4) Setting up of accounting
systems in the municipalities of Ségou, Mopti, Sévaré, Sikasso and the District of Bamako; (5) Training
for local and central government staff and elected officials; (6) Support to municipalities for project
implementation; (7) Assistance to the Ministry of Urbanization and Housing; and (8) Training activities for



                                                      - 2 -

enterprises and consulting firms.

Component 2: Basic infrastructures (US$83.3 million, 62% of program cost, out of which US$41.3
million will be financed by IDA), including the environmental action plan.

This component comprised seven sub-components:

(1) Maintenance of existing infrastructures (US$6.6 million); (2) Urban road rehabilitation and
construction, including drainage (US$38.5 million including US$24.01 million financed by IDA); (3) Pilot
actions for sanitation in Mopti, Sévaré, and Bamako (US$8.96 million, with US$4.5 million financed by
IDA); (4) Improving living conditions in seven of the poorest neighborhoods of Bamako (US$3.2 million
financed by IDA); (5) Development of land for economic activities (US$15.7 million, including US$3.1
million financed by IDA); (6) Studies, supervision of works and management (US$6.8 million, including
US$4.6 million financed by IDA); and (7) Management fees for the Public Works Executing Agency (
Agence d'Exécution de Travaux d'lntérêt Public pour l'Emploi ­ AGETIPE) as implementing agency of
this component (US$3.4 million, including US$2.3 million financed by IDA).

Component 3: Historical cities and monuments (US$12.1 million, 9% of program cost, including
US$3.17 million financed by IDA for Timbuktu).

This component comprised five sub-components:

(1) In Timbuktu: restoration and preservation of sanctuaries and mosques; (2) In Djenné: preservation and
promotion of one archeological site; (3) In Dogon area: preservation and promotion of Dogon historical and
cultural heritage; (4) Construction of public buildings in Bamako; and (5) Provision of technical and
logistical support to reinforce cultural missions of the Ministry of Culture and Communication in
Bandiagara, Djenné and Timbuktu.


Component 4: Drinking water supply to Bamako and Mopti (US$17.8 million, 13% of program cost,
with US$10.4 million financed by IDA).

This component comprised four sub-components:

(1) Improvement of safe water supply; (2) Study of underground water in Bamako and outlying areas; (3)
Study of future trends in water supply for Bamako by the year 2010; and (4) Updating of the water tariff
system with the aim of adapting it to the development of the sector.

Component 5: Land development for housing in Bamako (US$19.9 million, 10% of program cost,
including US$7.4 million financed by IDA), including the environmental action plan.

Financing a program of 5,000 plots (273 ha) equipped with roads, drainage and connected to water supply
networks, electricity and telephones.

Lessons learned in Mali and other West African countries which were incorporated in the project design
include: (i) the use of delegated contract management in public works through AGETIPE as an efficient
tool for executing municipal projects; and (ii) the auctioning of serviced and titled plots by ACI to improve
transparency in plot allocation and alignment to the land market to ensure full cost recovery so that
revenues generated by the sales are used to develop more land.

3.4 Revised Components:



                                                     - 3 -

The original components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory due to the Government's strong implication during project
preparation; the alignment of the project's objectives with the country decentralization strategy; the
inclusion of lessons learned from previous Bank financed urban operations in the design of the project; and
the choice of experienced and competent institutions to execute major components of the project.

During project preparation, the Government showed strong commitment to creating an enabling
institutional environment for promoting the development of local governments. It adopted several laws on
decentralization aimed at strengthening the authority of local governments, making them more autonomous
in terms of financial management; and also providing mechanisms for the transfer of power from the
central government to local governments. The use of municipal contracts, whereby central and local
governments agree on activities which are then set forth in a contract signed by both parties, established a
clear distribution of responsibilities. The organization by the authorities of a Donors Round Table in July
1996 was the result of the Government's commitment to the preparation of this operation. The donors'
community agreed to provide financial support for the Project.

The project design integrated lessons learned from implementation of the first and second urban projects,
and reflected priorities defined by the municipalities and the populations, through a comprehensive
participatory process that involved a large range of stakeholders.

The project built on the experience of existing institutions such as AGETIPE, the water and energy utility
company (Energie du Mali­ EDM) and the Land Management Agency (Agence de Cession Immobilière ­
ACI) for implementing basic infrastructure activities to support municipalities that did not have the
required technical capacities. Involving these experienced agencies in the preparation (particularly in terms
of prioritizing investments needs) was a demonstration of the Government's clear will to minimize project
implementation risks as well as set the stage for ownership of the project by agencies like EDM and ACI
who are in charge of their respective sectors.

Project preparation lasted five years from the concept document to approval of the credit. Preparation of
the concept note started at a very slow pace in 1991 during implementation of the second urban project and
continued beyond the closing date of this operation which was extended from September 1992 to March 31,
1994.

Despite the clear focus on supporting decentralization and the incorporation of lessons in the design, the
large number of components and sub-components added a layer of complexity to the project, which in turn
complicated implementation of the project. At the time, the results focus and specificity of outcomes were
lacking and results were more output-oriented than outcomes-oriented.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory. Despite the project being largely successful in achieving
the objectives in terms of provision of urban services, preservation of historic monuments, and improving
the functioning of the urban land market, the unsatisfactory rating is attributed to: (i) an increase in revenue
generation, a critical element to the maintenance of financed investments by the project, was not achieved;
(ii) resettlement issues from another operation supported by the Government that had been entrusted to the
land development component were unresolved; and (iii) the financial sustainability of EDM remains



                                                     - 4 -

threatened.

a.       Build local government management capacity, improve performance, strengthen operations
and maintenance, and improve planning, programming, budgeting, financial management, and
revenue generation: This objective was not achieved. Local governments were not able to significantly
increase their income (only 6% between 2001 and 2003, the period where figures on the balance sheets of
the municipalities are reliable). Despite local governments contributing 87% of what was expected from
them in terms of financing operation and maintenance of drainage and road infrastructure, these
contributions were consistently late and irregular. However, efforts done by the communes of Koulikoro,
Kayes, Bamako and Timbuktu to complete their contribution up to 100% are worth signaling. Local
governments themselves were not organized to finance operation and maintenance and did not have the
needed resources to cover their overall infrastructure services. The urban tax, which should have helped
local governments increase their resources for infrastructure maintenance, was not implemented, nor were
the recommendations from the audits of municipal contracts to improve their capacities for planning,
budgeting and financial management. Management of economic infrastructures built under the project took
place under non-transparent conditions and it has not been possible to account for the resources generated
by these facilities and for their use.

b.       Improve the provision of basic urban services, especially in the poorest neighborhoods. This
objective was achieved, as the project succeeded in (i) facilitating mobility in all the cities targeted by the
project with the provision of quality roads; (ii) increasing access to potable water services to 179,000
additional people in Bamako and Mopti (versus 165,000 anticipated), and (iii) providing improved water
services as well as electricity services to 55,000 inhabitants in the seven poorest neighborhoods of Bamako,
as anticipated.

The landscapes of the targeted cities have been completely transformed as a result of the construction of
new asphalted roads or the rehabilitation of existing roads. Asphalted roads constructed with the support of
the project were, in many instances, the only roads that have been asphalted in these cities during the last
40 years. In some cases, asphalted roads built with the project funds were the only paved roads in the entire
cities. Empirical evidence has shown that constructed and rehabilitated roads have facilitated access by the
population to basic infrastructure (health centers, schools, and markets), reduced both operating costs of
public transportation and dust nuisance, which is quite a common feature in Sahelian cities.

Drainage works and drainage maintenance activities executed under the project have reduced the size and
number of pools of stagnant water which are the breeding grounds for mosquitoes, the main source of
malaria, which in turn is responsible for the high level of morbidity and mortality in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Cities that have benefited from drainage activities have so far not been affected by floods.

Expansion of the electricity network has led to the development of the handicraft industry in the seven
poorest neighborhoods of Bamako (tailors, metal workers, grain mills). The establishment of public lighting
has favored the development of small scale economic activities (petty trading in fruits, vegetables, food
etc.,) outside of daylight hours, providing income-generating opportunities.

One of the key achievements of the project is the impact of sanitation activities carried out in Mopti. These
activities contributed to a drastic reduction in cholera cases in this city, from 675 cases per year before the
project, to 326 during the project, to none for the last three years after the completion of the sewerage and
sewage treatment plants, the solid waste collection operations, and the drainage facilities.

The project has generated short term employment, as works carried out under this component have created


                                                      - 5 -

123,000 man-months of temporary jobs, compared to 100,000 man-months targeted at appraisal, and
distributed US$10 million of wages to unskilled workers.

c.       Help preserve Mali's historical cities and monuments: This objective was achieved. A key
achievement has been the establishment of a strategic long term physical and spatial planning and
environmental management for all classified cities, a critical element that will guide the future development
of these cities. A "Plan to Revamp and Preserve the Old City" and a "Strategic City Sanitation Plan"
have been designed for Timbuktu. A master development plan of the Bandiagara Natural Sanctuary
(Dogon country) is available. Developed through a participatory process, these plans, as well as a plan for
the preservation of a whole range of sites located in the Songho and Sangha areas, were approved by
national, local, civil society, and development partners.

With regard to the preservation of classified monuments, Timbuktu's mosques, mausoleums, and
cemeteries, and the cultural and tourist sites of Songho and Sangha have been restored, rehabilitated or
improved, avoiding their complete deterioration. These sites are functional and open to the public. In
addition to the cultural character of these historic sites and monuments, they are a major source of income
for the country. Tourism could ideally represent a large source of revenue that can be used for poverty
reduction and preservation of these historic sites. In Djenne for example, tourism contributes 30% of the
local government's resources.

The national archives, which were dispersed all over the country, have been relocated to a single site in a
cultural complex in Bamako, which houses the National Library, the National Archives, and a
documentation center. Conservation and protection of important documents have been financed by the
project and donations have been provided by visitors to help finance the national archives' operations.

d.       Pursue improvements in the operation of the urban land market begun under the
IDA-assisted Second Urban Project. This objective was not achieved due to a lack of transparency in
management of allocating plots which were not part of the auction program and the land development
program initiated by ACI. The auction program itself, directly managed by ACI, performed well. The
project almost met its plot production and plot selling targets through auction by delivering 4,595 plots
instead of the 5,000 plots identified, and selling 3,006 plots instead of the 3,500 plots anticipated. 2,986
land titles have been created out of which 2,861 have been distributed to their owners. Nonetheless, the
project was unable to manage allocation of plots earmarked to be distributed transparently to specific
beneficiaries that have been moved from an urban operation managed by the Government in another area of
the city of Bamako.

As a continuation of activities undertaken under the previous urban operation, the project was able to
produce plots that have access to water, power, and sanitation contrary to the situation existing before the
creation of ACI when plots production was under the responsibility of the Government and the local
governments. Lack of these basic features was considered as an impediment for individuals and private
entities to invest in the development of their plots and a constraint to the development of the housing sector.
The project was also able to streamline access to land titles. This process, which used to take more than
two years, was reduced to 60 days. Existence of a credible land titling system and easy access to land titles
are considered as key drivers of transparent land markets that can spur greater investment in the housing
industry, create jobs and boost economic development. The auctioning of the equipped land adopted by
ACI has allowed for cost recovery of land and plot developments in Mali, laying the foundations for
sustainable urban land management in the country. Despite the limited size of the program, the approach
developed in Mali is quite rare in Sub-Saharan Africa.




                                                      - 6 -

Regardless of these achievements, problems associated with the allocation of resettlement plots for
populations evicted under the project "Let's save our neighborhood", financed entirely by the Government
and otherwise unrelated to the UDDP, were one of the main reasons to rate the project unsatisfactory. It
was planned that out of 5,000 plots to be produced, 30% should have been used to resettle the evicted
populations. Following an audit of the management of these plots to determine who the actual beneficiaries
were, only 420 people out of a list of 1,378 people were actual persons to be resettled. The
recommendation to provide plots to the real beneficiaries and to sell the remaining ones using the auction
system was never implemented. ACI was not involved in the dispute over plot allocation for resettlement, as
its role was limited to selling plots according to the price fixed by the Government and deliver land titles to
the evicted people, with reference to the list of beneficiaries established by the Government and Commune
V of Bamako, which hosted the populations being displaced.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Capacity building (Appraisal estimate: US$7.4 million, actual cost: US$6.8 million)

Implementation of this component is rated unsatisfactory because the strengthening of management
capacity of local governments, the major output of this component, was not achieved. Municipalities were
unable to prepare meaningful annual investment programs and the monitoring system of the Ministry of
Urban and Housing, the line ministry in charge of the implementation of this project, was not reinforced.
Other outputs were achieved with respect to the establishment of the urban tax, the review of the land
tenure law, the addressing of plots and streets, the setting up of accounting systems in three out of the four
targeted municipalities and training of 299 persons among central government staff, elected officials from
the local governments and SME representatives.

3,000 copies of the new land tenure code were distributed to the Central and local governments, to elected
officials and other people and institutions involved in land matters to increase their awareness of the
features of the new land code. A new urban tax was established. The assumption was for the urban tax to
increase the level of resources collected by the local governments from 5% to 15% and the share of the
resources devoted to maintenance of road, drainage and public lighting works financed by the project. The
forecast of urban tax revenues was based on the estimated number of occupied houses in each city, with an
average tax per house of CFAF 2,000 to 5,000 per year. Feasibility studies of the project have indicated
that resources amounting to US$3 million per year are needed for the maintenance of the infrastructure
built under the project out of which resources provided by the urban tax could finance US$1 million per
year, representing a percentage of 40%. Procedure manuals and generic contracts for management of
markets and lorry stations were prepared and made available to local governments to help them with the
contracting out and managing of some of their economic infrastructures.

Urban master plans for Bamako, Sikasso, Ségou, Timbuktu and Djenné have been updated and
infrastructure inventories have been developed for the same cities to help them prepare their investment
planning for the future in a more effective and consistent way as anticipated.

5,307 streets (representing 1,864 kilometers) and 131,231 plots were addressed in Bamako, Kayes,
Sikasso, Ségou, Mopti and Gao and an urban data base (street map, street index, database on occupants
and occupations) was established in those cities. Such a comprehensive street and plot addressing will
facilitate collection of taxes in addition to easing management of the cities by local governments and
facilitating the interventions of utility companies operating in these cities.

With the support of the International Association of French Speaking Mayors, a management accounting



                                                      - 7 -

system was introduced in the District of Bamako. This system was also set up in Mopti, Sikasso and in the
six communes of the District of Bamako. Segou, which was not member of this association at the time, had
not shown interest and did not install the new accounting system.

Component 2: Basic infrastructures (Appraisal estimate: US$83.2 million, actual cost: US$90.3 million)


Implementation of this component is rated satisfactory as the outputs were largely delivered. Annual
cleaning programs for the drainage systems, road sweeping and evacuation of debris removed from the
ditches and the streets were carried out on a regular basis during the project. 90 kilometers of drains were
cleaned and 90 kilometers of paved roads were swept every year in the targeted cities. In addition, five city
halls were rehabilitated.

122.6 kilometers of urban roads were reconstructed or rehabilitated, versus 117.6 kilometers foreseen at
appraisal. More kilometers of roads were reconstructed, instead of rehabilitated, because existing roads
were in a more advanced stage of degradation than anticipated at appraisal. Favorable exchange rate of the
SDR compared to local currency made it possible for the project to generate additional funding that was
partly used to finance roads reconstruction.

A solid waste management strategy was prepared for Bamako. This strategy was adopted by the
Government and the municipality. A new Department of Sanitation (Direction de la Propreté) was created,
as the agency in charge of solid waste for the entire city. Before this, all the boroughs composing the
districts had their own solid waste management arrangements. This Strategy was not implemented because
the Department of Sanitation was poorly staffed and the District of Bamako did not put in place the
required financial resources needed to launch pilot activities that the Bank was willing to finance. In Mopti,
a solid waste disposal site was developed as well as 9.5 kilometers of sewerage, 2 kilometers of paved
streets used for runoff evacuation and two waste water treatment plants as anticipated.

25 kilometers of water distribution network, including 77 stand-pipes, were built in the poorest
neighborhoods of Bamako. The electricity network has been extended into seven of the poorest
neighborhoods of Bamako as anticipated. Provision of water and electricity services has improved living
conditions in these neighborhoods by increasing access of many households to clean water. The security
conditions have also improved thanks to the public lighting and the installation of 1,324 light posts.

With respect to economic infrastructure, seven markets (for 4,000 stalls in total) and seven lorry stations
(for about 2,500 vehicles) were constructed in Bamako, Segou, Sévaré, Mopti, Sikasso and Koulikoro as
expected.

Component 3: Historical cities and monuments (Appraisal estimate: US$12.1 million, actual cost:
US$12.3 million)

Implementation of this component is rated satisfactory as all the anticipated outputs were achieved. The
most noteworthy achievement was the rehabilitation of 10 historic sites in Timbuktu, in addition to the
preparation of the three-phase "Plan de Revitalisation et de Sauvegarde de la vieille ville de Timbuktu"
which includes a priority investment program. The German and the Canadian aid agencies are financing,
out of this program, runoff collection facilities in the old town. Other works have been completed and they
include the construction of 6,5 kilometers of drains in Djenne; (i) access roads and construction of a
community camp in the Sanctuaire Naturel de la Falaise de Bandiagara (Bandiagara Cliffs) in the Dogon
region; (ii) construction of an handicraft center in Sangha and; (iii) the construction of a complex that


                                                      - 8 -

includes the National Library, the National Archives and the National Documentation Center and the
production of a plan to revitalize the old town of Bamako.

Training was planned for 150 masons. It was never implemented however, as there were delays in
designing a program acceptable to the Bank. When an agreement was finally reached between the project,
the Ministry of Culture and the Bank, the closing date had approached, not leaving sufficient time for hiring
a consultant and carrying out the training. However, many of the masons who worked on the rehabilitation
of the monuments acquired skills in rehabilitating historical monuments, even though it was not possible to
account for them in the absence of reliable data.

Component 4: Water supply to Bamako and Mopti (Appraisal estimate: US$17.8 million, actual cost:
US$18.0 million)

Implementation of this component is rated unsatisfactory, mainly because the tariff increase anticipated at
appraisal did not materialize. Otherwise, the component achieved most of its targets with respect to water
storage capacity, length of pipes to be laid down, and number of connections.

Tariffs were increased as expected for the first three years of the project with annual increase of 30% in
1998, 10% in 1999, and 10% in 2000. Increases were lower than expected in 2001 and 2002. Surprisingly,
the Government decided to reduce the tariff by 10% in 2003 instead of raising it, as expected, threatening
the financial sustainability of EDM. In Bamako and Mopti, storage capacity was increased by 6,000 m3 as
anticipated), the distribution network was extended with the construction of 208.5 km of pipes compared to
182 anticipated, 15,540 new household connections were realized versus 16,000 anticipated, 59 standpipes
were installed, and a water treatment plant was upgraded.

20 exploratory wells within a 25 - kilometer radius around Bamako were drilled as part of the search for
underground water in Bamako. This search revealed that there is not sufficient groundwater to be used as
alternative water resource for the city of Bamako, in case of pollution of the Niger River. The wells could
not be equipped and connected to the existing water network in Bamako because of lack of counterpart
funding from EDM associated with cash problems experienced by the utility. Connecting these wells to the
network would have increased the production capacity by an additional 10,000 m3 per day, representing
the needs of about 10,000 households.

Component 5: Land development for housing in Bamako (Appraisal estimate: US$13.9 million, actual
cost: US$8.7 million)


Implementation of this component is rated unsatisfactory mostly because of a lack of transparency in the
process of allocating plots to displaced households, despite the fact that ACI almost met the plot production
target. 4,595 plots were produced compared to 5,000 plots planned and 3,006 plots were sold by auction
compared to 3,500 plots anticipated.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Internal rate of return of the Drinking Water Supply to Bamako and Mopti component was estimated at
12% at appraisal. The component's rate of return following completion is estimated at 8.3%, not including
consumers' surplus. Rate of return of this component could have been higher if tariffs had been increased
as planned and technical losses reduced as expected.

The internal rate of return and the net present value for the land development component could not be



                                                    - 9 -

calculated. Plot sales were not completed because of problems encountered with the plots to be allocated to
the inhabitants to be resettled.

Ex-post analysis could not be carried out for the market places financed in Bamako. These facilities are
managed by the District of Bamako, and it was difficult to obtain financial information on revenues
collected and expenditure as the figures could not be accounted for separately.

An economic analysis was carried out for the transport stations of Mopti and Sévaré. The internal rate of
return in Mopti is 13%, versus 19% estimated at appraisal. Projected at 14%, the actual net present value
was negative because of higher costs of construction and limited stream of revenues in Sévaré.

An ex-post economic analysis was carried out for works related to construction or rehabilitation of roads,
based on a representative sample of five roads, in terms of type of works (construction or rehabilitation)
and traffic flows because reliable data on all road investment were not available. While investments made
on some road sections (in Bamako, Kayes, Sikasso) are higher than 12% (ranging from 14% to 21%), road
investments made on two other sections (in Segou and Mopti) show an ERR far below 12%. The main
reasons explaining rates of return lower than expected at appraisal are: (i) actual traffic in 2005 which is
less than anticipated in 1996-1997; and (ii) costs which, in some cases, have increased due to a change in
design (details engineering designs have included the construction of drainage system and electricity
network for public lighting)

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is uneven and varies according to the institutions and
agencies involved in the implementation of the project. The impact on institutional development of the
municipalities is rated modest. In addition to limited strengthening of their capacities, local governments
were not able to generate enough resources to carry out their mandates. However, it should be noted that
urban master plans were developed under the project for all cities in Mali providing them with a long-term
vision for their development and helping them to better control their spatial development. These plans are
the only tools currently used as references for planning investment projects in the municipalities.

The institutional development impact of the project on the National Directorate of Urban is rated as
substantial. The National Directorate of Urban was restructured and its mission refocused on planning,
programming and coordination and became more efficient in delivering its activities. Management at the
Administration and Finance Department of the Ministry of Equipment and Urban Planning was improved
thanks to the use of a procedures manual developed by the project.

The "Institut Géographique du Mali" (IGM), with the status of a public scientific institution and
management autonomy, was established as a result of a financial and organizational audit of previous and
less effective National Cartography and Topography Directorate financed by the project. The institutional
development impact of the project on the IGM is rated as substantial.

The project supported the creation of the Department of Sanitation of the District of Bamako, although the
institution did not play its intended role in terms of contracting out solid waste management to the private
sector.




                                                      - 10 -

The project helped consolidate AGETIPE's know-how in delegated contract management. The management
cost ratio of the agency compared to the total cost of contracts signed was 4.8%, compared to a forecast of
5%. Its transparent procedures effectiveness contributed to the revamping of the local consulting and public
works industries. AGETIPE's performance encouraged the Government to use the same model to create
three new agencies ­ AGETIER (for rural works), AMADER (for rural electrification) and AGEROUTE
(for road works). AGETIER and AMADER are currently operational and AGEROUTE has just been
established. The presence of three delegated project management agencies on the market will increase
competition in the delegated project management market and provide a broader choice for Mayors when
selecting delegated project managers. It is quite clear that, with this competition, the cost of services, which
already used to be confined within the 5% costs of the sub-projects implemented, will be reduced and
quality of works will be improved. This new situation should encourage these implementing agencies to
sharpen their management methods, by reducing operational costs to a minimum.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During implementation, the project had a favorable SDR exchange rate with the CFA franc, which led to
increased resources, enabling the financing of additional road infrastructure works. The project was
extended for 18 months in order to complete the additional works program.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Most of local governments engaged in the project have experienced several changes of their municipal
councils over a short period of time. This general instability of municipal councils negatively impacted the
overall achievement of the project and had a dragging impact on the strengthening of their financial and
managerial capacity. This situation was not conducive to the successful implementation of the new urban
tax. Carrying out fiscal reforms advocated by the project required continuity and time.

Instability also affected the line ministry. Six different ministers were successively in charge of the line
ministry during the course of the project. These repeated changes have resulted in discontinuity and
negatively impacted the project. EDM, which was facing financial difficulties partly as a result of the
sudden drop of the water tariff, could not release its required 10% counterpart funds to finance the
equipment of the wells in order to increase its much needed water production capacity in Bamako.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project Coordination Unit, which was responsible for implementing the capacity building component,
did not have adequate human resources. The unit was not proactive in ensuring proper monitoring of the
objectives set in the municipal contracts. It was unable to launch all the requests for proposals for the
recruitment of audit firms, thus constraining the regular auditing of the local governments. After the
Decentralization Mission (formerly responsible for the coordination of this component) was dismantled, the
newly created National Directorate of Territorial Communities ("Direction Nationale des Collectivités
Territoriales") took over coordination of this component. Poorly staffed, this Directorate was not able to
adequately manage and monitor the activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost as estimated in the appraisal report was US$154 million, with IDA financing US$80
million. The contribution of the Government and the implementing agencies (ACI, EDM) was estimated at
US$13.5 million. The project was expected to receive additional financing from: Canada CIDA (US$15
million), France AfD (US$20 million), Germany KfW (US$7 million for the first tranche) and ICCROM
(US$2 million). Other donors had expressed interest in financing approximately US$18.9 million. The
Land development for Housing component did not receive the additional financing expected from Donors.



                                                     - 11 -

By the end of the project, the total project cost amounted to US$136.5 million.

The project benefited from several sources of financing, namely:

   l France - for the construction of marketplaces and transport stations and water supply for a total of
        US$18.5 million.
   l Germany - for the construction of marketplaces and roads rehabilitation for a total of US$3.4
        million.
   l Canada - for the construction of marketplaces and sanitation works for a total of US$1.5 million.


88% of the credit was disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated unlikely because of the weak financial situation of local governments.
Due to limited financial resources, local governments were not able to hire needed human resources to
improve their programming and financial management capacities, nor were they able to increase their
revenues and set aside resources for the maintenance of infrastructure.

Economic infrastructure built under the project, which was expected to provide local governments with
additional revenues, was poorly managed. Monitoring of revenues and their use as well as implementation
of recommendations made following the financial audits, did not take place on a consistent and regular
basis. Globally, the financial conditions of the municipalities did not improve during the project, as most of
the municipalities continued to carry operating deficits, with expenditures outstripping revenues. In 2004,
the global deficit of the municipalities was US$1.2 million, excluding the District of Bamako (for which
balance sheets were not available).

In addition, EDM ended up in a difficult financial position partly due to loss of revenues caused by the
reduction of the tariff level and also because of the financial stress linked to the management of its energy
operations. EDM's total deficit including the water and the energy operations was US$10.3 million in 2003
and US$13.1 million in 2004. In the present situation, EDM cannot maintain its facilities, let alone renew
them.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All project activities were already integrated into the regular operation of the executing agencies and local
governments. There is therefore no need for transitional arrangements. However, an ESW dealing with
urban issues and secondary cities is being prepared and completion is scheduled for April 2006. A follow
up urban operation is envisaged in the next CAS and will focus on the strengthening of local governments'
capacity to manage and finance their activities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. The bank offered technical advice
and made recommendations to the Borrower's agencies and worked closely with them on all aspects of the
project. The Bank contributed greatly to mobilizing other donors to co-finance the project. The Bank's
team rightly analyzed the developmental challenges of the time, which were marked by the decentralization
process, and integrated this into the project design by including a capacity building component mostly



                                                     - 12 -

focusing on strengthening the capacities of local governments and creating the enabling environment for
them to increase their resources.

The project was designed based on lessons learned from previous urban projects (first and second urban
projects). Involvement of existing implementing agencies was sought rather than creating and relying on
new ones. Increasing access of urban services was a key element of the design and a substantial allocation
of resources was dedicated to infrastructure and services delivery. The Bank team had an open and
extensive dialogue with various actors involved in project preparation, so as to design a project that met the
needs of the municipalities and had the support of the elected officials and the civil society by large.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance on supervision is rated marginally satisfactory. The Bank carried out regular,
fully staffed supervision missions and kept an open dialogue with the government. The Bank responded
favorably to the Government's request to extend the closing date of the project by 18 months, so that
additional works could be carried out. After the audit of plots allocation recommended by the Bank, the
Bank provided the Government with a resettlement specialist to assist them in solving problems related to
the allocation of plots to displaced households that should have been resettled.

However, the Bank team was not proactive enough in addressing on time, the problems related to the poor
performance of the Capacity Building component and to addressing the most difficult element of the
component as it relates to strengthening the capacity, increasing revenues and improving municipalities'
management. The Bank attempted, through the ongoing dialogue within the energy sector and via numerous
appeals to the Government, to have the critical issue of water tariffs fixed, but was unsuccessful as this
was a political decision made by the top ranked officials in the country.

Three task team leaders were successively in charge during project implementation and these changes did
not significantly affect the supervision of the project. The last task team leader was based in the country
(during the last six months). His presence in the field further facilitated the dialogue with the Government
and increased supervision efforts by the Bank.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory based on its lending and supervision ratings.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government was
committed to the implementation of the project. It moved swiftly to introduce the necessary decentralization
reforms to give more power to the municipalities. The Government issued the urban sector policy letter in
consultation with donors involved in the urban development and decentralization sectors. It played a key
role in mobilizing the resources of other technical and financial partners by organizing a donors' round
table. It saw to the regular monitoring of the status of the project preparation by setting up an
inter-ministerial monitoring committee which met regularly to offer opinions and make recommendations at
all stages of project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation is rated unsatisfactory. The performance of
the capacity building component was greatly hampered by the Government's failure to coordinate activities
of the various stakeholders, considering the fact that responsibilities for the management of the
municipalities were dispersed among four ministries. Regular reshuffling of the municipal councils out of



                                                     - 13 -

their normal tenure could have been prevented and had a negative impact on the strengthening of the
capacities of local governments. The decision to reduce water tariffs instead of increasing them affected the
financial standing of EDM. The Government was unable to address the lack of transparency and the
mismanagement of the plots to be allocated to displaced households and this was never resolved whereby
the problem lingered until the end of the project.

Government's performance in terms of meeting its counterpart funding obligations is rated satisfactory.
The Government released its entire contribution for the maintenance of existing basic infrastructure.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Agence d'Exécution des Travaux Publics pour l'Emploi (AGETIPE-MALI)
AGETIPE's performance was satisfactory. It signed 67 contracts, all entirely implemented, with 87% of
the contracts completed on schedule. The average period for the start of works was 18 days, compared to a
forecast of 4 months.

With respect to maintenance activities, AGETIPE signed 192 contracts, and 98% were completed on
schedule compared to a forecast of 100%. With respect to job creation, the number of jobs created was
123,196 man months compared to 100,000 man months forecasted.

AGETIPE has undergone several technical and financial audits that did not reveal any major problems of
financial management and work quality.


Energie du Mali (EDM)

Technically, EDM performed well by meeting its water production target and exceeded its number of
connections target in 2002. The number of stand-pipes grew steadily until 1999. Reliable data exists for
2000 and 2001, but the number of working stand-pipes was reduced over these years due to interruption for
non payment. Network efficiency did not reach the performance levels expected. This is due to persistent
non-technical losses, mainly from fraud, and also due to technical losses as EDM did not finance the
required maintenance works on the network. For some years now, EDM has been clamping down on
offenders to curb these losses, and has made some significant gains as shown by improvements from 2001
to 2004 but hardly met the targets that were quite optimistic (see table below).

         Efficiency of the       1997     1998    1999     2000     2001    2002    2003     2004
              Network


        At appraisal                 74       76      78       79      80      81     ---     ---
        Actual                       71       66      67       59      61      63       68    70,2


The financial performance indicators cover turnover, the net results and the personnel costs for the water
supply activity, the client account and the project's economic rate of return. From 1997 to 2000, the
estimated turnover was higher than what was realized because at evaluation, the average sales price used
was higher than what was actually charged (see table below).


    Turnover                 1997    1998     1999    2000      2001      2002     2003      2004
    At appraisal (MFCFA)     6,700    7,500    9,000   10,000    10,500    11,000     ---       ---
    Actual (MFCFA)            4658     5701    6318      8078       8513   11,430   11,441    12,421




                                                    - 14 -

There is no reliable data to help assess operational income and personnel costs of water activity, due to a
lack of specific activity-based cost accounting, which would help distinguish between all charges made to
each of the activities of EDM, namely water and electricity. Client accounts always exceeded seven months
and did not meet the target.

Agence de Cession Immobilière (ACI)
The agency performed relatively well in terms of plots produced and sold by auction. 4,595 equipped plots
were produced on the Baco-Djicoroni Sud Extension site, compared to 5,000 anticipated. 65.5% of the
produced plots (3,006 plots) were sold by auction.


Financially, the performance indicators contained in the appraisal report were on the number of plots sold
and cost recovery: out of 4,595 plots created with final titles at the Baco-Djicoroni site, 3,006 or 65.5%
have been sold by auction versus the projected 3,217 plots or 70%. The ratio of sales with opening price is
108% against a forecast of 110%.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Delegating management contracts to qualified and experienced agencies remains one of the best
options to deliver infrastructure services quickly and effectively. For municipalities with weak capacities,
delegated management contracts remain an essential tool for timely delivery of basic infrastructure of good
quality to the population. The project has shown that it is very difficult to achieve strengthening of
municipal capacity, increase revenue generation and better manage their financial resources in the short
term. At the same time, embarking local governments in procuring and managing multiple large scale
contracts that require specific skills would have been disastrous in terms of urban service delivery.

Municipal contracts are useful tools to improve performance of local governments but need to be
monitored to be meaningful. Municipal contracts are important tools that set up contractual obligations
between the central government and local governments. They support performance improvements of local
governments and also ensure that central governments are meeting their obligations by creating an enabling
environment for local governments to strive. However, these contracts cannot succeed without close
monitoring of their implementation.

Using private sector approaches can provide improvement in urban land management and streamline
urban land titling. Countries facing land management issues may find promising experience gained in
Mali where the land auction system has allowed: (i) some transparency in the land allocation process, (ii)
more credibility in the land titles; and (iii) a significant reduction in time for obtaining land titles. This
system has also helped ACI to quickly recover the investment costs and to finance additional operations.

Cultural heritage operations are complex by themselves and adding them as a component of a project
can increase complexity further. Cultural heritage activities require long and complex studies, significant
consultation with the public, private sectors, the civil society and international organizations like
UNESCO. As a result, it may be more efficient to deal with these operations under specific stand alone
projects rather than adding them as a component to an urban project in order to reduce complexity.

Achieving infrastructure outputs may not lead to sustainable outcomes when capacity building is



                                                    - 15 -

compromised. Increasing capacity and creating the conditions for credible management of urban services
are critical elements of any sustainable service delivery mechanism, and should receive the highest level of
attention during project preparation and project implementation of any urban operation that deals with
local governments.

Urban operations are complex by themselves and require long periods of implementation that exceed
the five year period that has been the norm so far. Urban operations dealing with decentralized levels of
governments are prone to delays because of the institutional weaknesses of most of the municipalities and
they require time to implement reforms associated with increasing their revenues. Seven to eight years
appears to be the realistic time frame for such projects.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The report prepared by the Government is included in Annex 9. In this report, the Government highlighted
the important results achieved by some of the project's components, such as Basic Infrastructure, Water
Supply, Land Development and Historic Monuments, as well as their impact on the lives of the population.
The Government especially found the spatial planning tools provided to the municipalities valuable.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments on a draft version of the ICR were received from the German and Canadian aid agencies. Apart
from minor corrections, which have been incorporated in the main text, both agencies wished to point out
that they found it regrettable that no consensus was reached with the Bank related to the procurement issues
for the works being cofinanced in Timbuktu. The disagreement concerned a decision by one of the
executing agencies not to award the contract to the lowest evaluated bid on the premises that the bidder was
involved in a litigation case related to another contract with that implementing agency. The Bank did not
agree with such a standing.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None.




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome Indicators

        OUTCOME                              INDICATOR                  APPRAISAL           REALIZATIONS         PERCENTAGE
                                                                         ESTIMATE

A. CAPACITY BUILDING         Municipal resource mobilization            No figure available Few reliable data.       N/A
                                                                                             Increase of 6%
                                                                                           between 2001 and
                                                                                                 2003.

B. PROVISION OF BASIC       Annual population impacted (total access              842,230              884,530      105%
URBAN SERVICES              to water)

                             Increased access to water                           165,000             179,000        108%

C. PRESERVATION OF          Making national archives accessible                 1 complex           1 complex       100%
HISTORIC SITES              through the construction of cultural
                            complex
D. IMPROVE URBAN LAND       Number of land titles created and                       3,500                2,861      82%
MARKET                      distributed


Output Indicators

   OUTPUT BY                           INDICATOR                            APPRAISAL         REALIZATIONS         PERCENTAGE
  COMPONENT                                                                  ESTIMATE

1. CAPACITY     Training                                                          No figure   299 persons              N/A
BUILDING                                                                           available

                Creation/updating of PUR and IPIE for all cities                            5                    5      100%
                State contribution to maintenance account (Million FCFA)                2,054               2,054       100%

                Municipalities' contribution to maintenance account                     1,298               1,133        87%
                (million FCFA)

                Street addressing                                         No figure available   5,307 streets and        N/A
                                                                                                    131,231 plots
                                                                                                       addressed
2. BASIC        A solid waste management strategy for Bamako                                1                    1      100%
INFRASTRUCTUR developed and approved by government ad local
E               authorities
                Number of markets built or rehabilitated                                    7                    7      100%
                Number of lorry stations built                                              6                    7      116%

                Extension of water supply system                          No figure available               25 km        N/A

                Number of light centers built                             No figure available               1,324        N/A

                Roads rehabilitation (Km)                                               96.80               47.10        49%

                Roads construction (Km)                                                 20.80               75.47       363%

3. HISTORICAL   Number of masons trained                                                  150  No formal training.        0%
SITES                                                                                         Masons trained "on
                                                                                                  the job", but no
                                                                                                    reliable figure

                Preservation of sites                                                       5                   12     240%
4. SAFE WATER   Number of connections total                                            84,230             88,453        105%
SUPPLY

                Number of new household connections in Bamako and                      16,000              15,540           97%
                Mopti

                Number of standpipes                                             Comp 2: 77 Comp. 2: 77 Comp.          100%

                                                                                  Comp 4: 38                 4: 59     155%




                                                            - 17 -

            Increased reservoir capacity                             6,000 m3          6,000 m3       100%

            Extension of water supply network in Bamako and Mopti      182 km          208.5 km       115%

            EDM Billing/Production (%)                                 123.00               68.00      55%

            EDM Income (million FCFA)                                  11,000             12,421      113%

            EDM Result (Million FCFA)                                   2,038  no reliable data to     N/A
                                                                                 help assess the
                                                                              operational income
                                                                             and personnel costs
                                                                             of the water activity,
                                                                             because of the lack
                                                                                  of specific cost
                                                                                      accounting

5. LAND     # of lots developed                                         5,000              4,595       92%
DEVELOPMENT

            # of lots sold by auction                                   4,500              3,006       67%

            % cost recovery of plots sold                              110.00            107.65        98%

EMPLOYMENT  AGETIPE-Operating ratio (half year)                          5.00               4.84       N/A

            Employment created (person months)                       100,000            123,196       123%




                                                     - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                    COMPONENTS                             COSTS (US $ Million)     Percentage
 N°                       Heading                         Estimate      Actual        Realized

  A.Capacity Building:                                         7,357        6,780          92,16%
  1. Capacity Building                                         6,050        4,655          76,95%
  2. PCU Operating Costs                                       0,713        1,331        186,64%
  3. Audits                                                    0,594        0,794        133,65%

  B.Urban Infrastructures                                     83,266       90,319        108,47%
  1. Infrastructure Maintenance
  a)Municipalities' Participation                              2,571        2,091          81,33%
  b)Government Participation                                   4,068        3,791          93,17%
  2. Roads and drainage                                       38,460       57,869        150,47%
  3. Sanitation Bamako and Mopti                               8,966        1,964          21,91%
  4. Living conditions in poorest neighborhoods                3,235        2,158          66,70%
  5. Land development for economic activities                 15,699       10,851          69,12%
  6. Studies/Supervision                                       6,845        7,170        104,75%
  7. AGETIPE management cost                                   3,422        4,424        129,29%

  C.Historic Cities                                           12,095       12,349        102,10%
  1. Civil Works                                               5,407        4,979          92,10%
  2. Constructions of cultural Buildings                       5,000        6,165        123,30%
  3. Studies/Supervision                                       1,688        1,205          71,36%

  D.Water Supply                                              17,766       18,034        101,51%
  1. Water supply ­ Bamako                                    13,921       13,966        100,33%
  2. Water supply ­ Mopti                                      1,568        1,425          90,86%
  3. Studies/Supervision                                       2,277        2,643        116,05%

  E.Land Development                                          13,936        8,682          62,30%
  1. Civil Works                                              12,670        7,256          57,27%
  2. Studies/Supervision                                       1,267        1,426        112,58%

                                                   Total    134,420       136,164        101,30%
             Provisions for technical and financial risks:    20,163        0,350
                                   Project Total Costs:     154,583       136,514          88,31%


    November 01, 1996: 1 US $ = 515 FCFA                  June 30, 2005: 1 US $ = 542 FCFA




                                                  - 19 -

        Project Components                         US $ Million
N°               Headings           AOI     AON     Others     NFB    Totals

  I. Civil Works                     28,05   25,67              49,81  103,53
                                    (25,24) (23,11)                    (48,35)
1.1 Maintenance                                                  6,64    6,64
1.2 Roads                            13,89   12,83              11,74   38,46
                                    (12,50) (11,55)                    (24,05)
1.3 Sanitation                                1,65                       1,65
                                             (1,49)                     (1,49)
1.4 Living conditions                         3,23                       3,23
                                             (2,91)                     (2,91)
1.5 Merchants Equipment                       3,42              12,67   16,09
                                             (3,08)                     (3,08)
1.6 Historic Cities                           2,97               7,45   10,42
                                             (2,67)                     (2,67)
1.7 Water Supply (EDM)                6,74    1,57               6,06   14,37
                                     (6,06)  (1,41)                     (7,47)
1.8 Land Development (ACI)            7,42                       5,25   12,67
                                     (6,68)                             (6,68)

 II. Equipment                        1,16    0,67      0,30     3,60    5,73
                                     (1,16)  (0,67)   (0,30)            (2,13)
2.1 Capacity Buildings                0,50    0,37      0,15             1,13
                                     (0,50)  (0,37)   (0,15)            (1,13)
2.2 Sanitation                        0,66    0,30      0,15     3,60    4,71
                                     (0,66)  (0,30)   (0,15)            (1,11)

III. Consultants                                       15,04     7,94   22,98
                                                     (15,04)           (15,04)
3.1 Consultants                                         5,26     1,39
                                                      (5,26)
3.2 Sanitation                                          1,88     1,00    2,88
                                                      (1,88)            (1,88)
3.3 Studies/Supervision/Management                      4,55     3,84    8,39
     Costs
                                                      (4,55)            (4,55)
3.4 Historic cities                                     0,50     1,17    1,69
                                                      (0,50)            (0,50)
3.5 Water Supply (EDM)                                  2,11             2,11
                                                      (2,11)            (2,11)
3.6 Land Development (ACI)                              0,74     0,52    1,26
                                                      (0,74)            (0,74)

IV. Management Costs                                    2,98
                                                      (2,98)
4.1 PCU                                                 0,71             0,71
                                                      (0,71)            (0,71)
4.2 AGETIPE                                             2,27             2,27
                                                      (2,27)            (2,27)

                            Totals:  29,21   26,34     18,32    61,35  135,20
                                    (26,40) (23,78)  (18,32)           (68,50)
                    Percentage (%):  21,61   19,48     13,55    45,38  100,00
                                    (38,54) (34,72)  (26,74)          (100,00)




                                             - 20 -

        Project Components                          US $ Millions
N°               Indicators            AOI    AON     Other      NFB     Total

 I. Works                                                        48,741 118,048
                                     (65,010) (4,296) (69,307)
1.1 Maintenance                                                  5,882    5,882

1.2 Roads                                                        15,468  62,691
                                     (47,222)                           (47,222)
1.3 Sanitation                                                   0,196    1,965
                                      (1,769)                            (1,769)
1.4 Living Conditions                                            0,216    2,158
                                      (1,194) (0,748)                    (1,942)
1.5 Merchants Equipments                                         7,648   10,923
                                      (1,867) (1,408)                    (3,275)
1.6 Historic Cities                                              9,335   11,117
                                              (1,762)                    (1,762)
1.7 Water Supply (EDM)                                           9,250   16,056
                                      (6,427) (0,378)                    (6,805)
1.8 Land Development (ACI)                                       0,726    7,255
                                      (6,529)                            (6,529)

 II. Equipments                                                  0,650    1,294
                                      (0,503) (0,059)  (0,082)           (0,644)
2.1 Capacity Buildings                                           0,650    1,294
                                      (0,503) (0,059)  (0,082)           (0,644)
2.2 Sanitation


III. Consultants                                                 4,947   11,634
                                      (3,998) (0,962)  (1,726)           (6,686)
3.1 Consultants                                                  1,842    5,197
                                      (1,396) (0,233)  (1,726)           (3,355)
3.2 Sanitation                                                            0,102
                                      (0,102)                            (0,102)
3.3 Studies/Supervision/Management                               0,994    1,439
     Costs
                                              (0,445)                    (0,445)
3.4 Historic Cities                                              0,127    0,825
                                      (0,415) (0,283)                    (0,698)
3.5 Water Supply (EDM)                                           1,636    2,642
                                      (1,006)                            (1,006)
3.6 Land Development (ACI)                                       0,347    1,426
                                      (1,079)                            (1,079)

IV. Management Costs                                             0,771    5,755
                                                       (4,984)           (4,934)
4.1 PCU                                                                   1,331
                                                       (1,331)           (1,331)
4.2 AGETIPE-MALI                                                 0,771    4,424
                                                       (3,653)           (3,653)


                          Total Costs                            55,109 136,731
                                     (69,512) (5,317)  (6,792)          (81,621)

                     Percentage (%):                             40,30   100,00
                                      (85,16)
                                      - 21 -   (6,51)   (8,32)          (100,00)

          BUDGETARY                      ESTIMATE             ACTUAL           PERCENTAGE
  COMPONENTS/RUBRIQUES
N°            Heading                 IDA Govt. CoF.      IDA Govt. CoF.      IDA  Govt.  CoF.


A.Capacity Buildings                 7,105 0,000 0,252 5,624 0,072 1,085 79,16            430,46
1. Accompanied Measures              0,297                0,180              60,53
2.Management tools                   1,010                1,462        0,275 144,78
3.Urban Management                   3,500        0,252 1,444 0,072 0,578 41,24
4.Training                           0,990                0,413        0,231 41,74
5.PCU Operating Costs                0,713                1,331              186,64
6.Total                              0,594                0,794              133,71

B.Infrastructure Maintenance         44,730 8,400 30,137 57,807 9,381 23,130 129,24 111,68 76,75
1.Existing Urban infrastructures            4,500 3,000         3,791 2,091         84,24 69,71
2.Construction and rehabilitation of 26,721 2,657        42,401 4,822 10,646 158,68 181,49
  Roads and drainage
3.Sanitation ­ Bamako/Mopti          4,529 0,503 14,000 1,768 0,196 0,000 39,03     39,03   0,00
4.Improvement of low income          3,235 0,359          1,942 0,216        60,03  60,03
  neighborhoods -Bamako
5.Land Development for Economic 3,419 0,380 13,137 3,203 0,356 7,292 93,69          93,69 55,50
  Activities
6.Studies/Supervision/Training       4,553                4,840        2,330 106,31
7.AGETIPE Management Costs           2,273                3,653        0,771 160,70

C.Historic Cities and buildings      3,462 0,300 8,332 2,867 6,079 3,403 82,82 2026,47 40,84
1.Civil Works                        1,868 0,300 8,147 1,206 0,498 3,276 64,56 165,98 40,21
2.Construction of Cultural Buildings 1,099                0,584 5,581        53,11
3.Studies/Supervision/Training       0,495        0,185 1,077          0,127 217,66        68,73

D.Water Supply ­ Bamako/Mopti 10,419 0,000 7,347 7,210 0,000 10,824 69,20                 147,32
1.Capacity Buildings ­ Bamako        6,740        6,447 5,578          8,870 82,75        137,59
2.Capacity Buildings ­ Mopti         1,570        0,300 1,228          0,197 78,25         65,79
3.Research of Underground Water      1,265        0,600                0,183   0,00        30,42
4.Studies/Works Control              0,844                0,404        1,574 47,91

E.Land Development - Bamako          8,159 0,000 5,778 7,609 0,000 1,073 93,26             18,57
1.Works                              7,417        5,778 6,530          0,726 88,04         12,56
2.Studies/Supervision                0,742                1,079        0,347 145,47

F.Miscellaneous:                     6,126 0,000 14,038 0,350 0,000 0,000      5,71         0,00
1.PPF Reimbursement                  0,750                0,350              46,68
2.Miscellaneous                      5,376       14,038                        0,00         0,00

                  Total by Donor: 80,000 8,700 65,884 81,467 15,532 39,515 101,83 178,54 59,98
                     Global Total :       154,583             136,514               88,31


     01 November 1996 : 1 US $ = 515 FCFA                   30 June 2005 : 1 US $ = 542 FCFA




                                                        - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Costs and benefits of Urban of five road subprojects

The urban road rehabilitation and construction subcomponent of the UDDP included rehabilitation of
existing roads, construction of new roads, drains, traffic signals and road signs to improve traffic flow.
Cities included in this sub-component included the District of Bamako, Ségou, Sikasso, Mopti-Sévaré, Gao
and Kayes. The PAD indicates an ERR of 91% of road rehabilitation and 67% of new road construction
with respective net present values of 1.7 and 1.9 billion CFAF respectively.

An ex-post economic analysis was carried out on the sample of five road sections presented below, in each
of the five Project cities because reliable data on all road investment were not available. Traffic counting
was carried out in 2005 (see Table 1 below). To determine net incremental costs and benefits off road
investments, "with" and "without" project were considered. On the basis of these scenarios, the net
incremental financial benefits and costs of the proposed investment programs were assessed. These were
then adjusted for the impact of taxes, subsidies and externalities to arrive at the economic cost and benefit
streams. Cash flows were discounted using a discount rate of 12%. Costs include capital costs, operation
and maintenance costs, and rehabilitation costs. The ex-post economic analysis was performed using The
Roads Economic Decision Model (RED). RED was developed under the Road Management Initiative
(RMI), a component of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP) aiming at improving
the decision-making process for the development and maintenance of low-volume roads. The model
performs an economic evaluation of road investments options using the consumer surplus approach and is
customized to the characteristics of low-volume roads such as a) the high uncertainty of the assessment of
the model inputs, particularly the traffic and condition of unpaved roads; b) the importance of vehicle
speeds for model validation; c) the need for a comprehensive analysis of generated and induced traffic; and
d) the need to clearly define all accrued benefits. RED computes benefits for normal, generated, induced,
and diverted traffic, and takes into account changes in road length, conditions in the dry and wet seasons,
geometry, surface type, and accident rates. RED was used rather than HDM because of the type of
investments (earth roads into paved/gravel roads).

The results are shown in Table 1 below. While investments made on some road sections (in Bamako,
Kayes, Sikasso) are higher than 12% (ranging from 14% to 21%), road investments made on two other
sections (in Segou and Mopti) show an ERR far below 12%. The main reasons explaining rates of return
lower than expected at appraisal are: (i) an actual traffic in 2005 which is less than traffic anticipated in
1996-1997; and (ii) costs which, in some cases, have increased due to a change in design. It should be
noted that, as mentioned in the PAD, specific detailed traffic counts and vehicle operating costs were not
available for the regional capital cities at the time of appraisal.

However, the economic analysis does not take into account all advantages brought by the investments,
including (i) advantages brought to the population (estimated on the sample to about 99,500 urban
residents, as indicated in Table 2); (iii) environmental improvements; (iii) the value of time savings; (ii) the
cost of congestion on existing roads that were relieved once the alternate roads were paved, or (iii) the
benefits derived from induced traffic on improved roads.




                                                      - 23 -

Table 1. Summary of Economic Analysis on five road sections
              Investment
            cost estimated                 Trafic forecast             Road
               at project      Actual         for 2005      Actual    section
   Road      appraisal (M  investment cost  estimated at    trafic in length   cost/km          NPV (M
  Section       FCFA)         (M FCFA)    project appraisal   2005     (km)   (M FCFA)   ERR    FCFA)
BKO                    400      401.5           3650         5 115         1.5      268     18%     152
KAYES                  896      1016            4827         4 514          2       508     14%     114
SIKASSO                86.4     98.4            2101         3 761          3      32.8     21%    55.5
SEGOU                 3006      3840            2974          784          9.6      400 -         -2809
MOPTI               667.83      873.5           2005          1763         2.5      349      -4%   -586
Total               5056.23



Table 2. Cost Effectiveness Analysis

                       Population       Population        Investment/Population
   Road Section           served     served/Kilometer      Served (US$/person)
BKO                           25000               16667              36
KAYES                         14500                7250              156
SIKASSO                       20000                6667              11
SEGOU                         17500                1823              488
MOPTI                         22500                9000              86
Total                         99500
            Average                                8281                       155



Economic Costs and benefits of Water supply component

The results are shown in Table 3 below. At appraisal the ERR for the project was estimated at 12% with a
present value of 60 million CFA using a discount rate of 12%. The ERR estimated after the completion
(8,3%) of the works is less than what was expected and the net present value is negative. This is due
mainly to the water tariffs that did not increase as agreed with the government. However, this project
component had other benefits such as improved sanitary conditions, improved health, and reduction in
water-borne diseases such as dysentery, cholera and typhoid. This component gave 254,000 people access
to potable drinking water.




                                                  - 24 -

Table 3: Benefits and Costs


                                          1997    1998     1999      2000      2001    2002     2003     2004     2005
Data Base
Number of clients/year                                                 3000     4311     7300     3240
Total number of clients                                                3000     7311    14611    17851    17851    17851
Average consumption/client                                              590      590      590      590      590      590
Network efficiency                         71%     66%       67%       59%      61%      63%      68%      70%      71%

Investment
Engineering studies                        282.0   72.9      48.1      483.5    157.2    195.4    193.3
Production and Inventory (M. FCFA)                 207.2     722.5     515.3    564.7  1,129.4    383.2    338.8
Distribution network (M. FCFA)                            2,153.8   1,440.9     203.8    575.6    467.3
Investment Flow (M. FCFA)                  282.0   280.1  2,924.3   2,439.7     925.6  1,900.3  1,043.8    338.8

Operations
Revenue
Consumption per client (Mm3)                                            1.8       4.3      8.6     10.5     10.5     10.5
Average cost consumption <60 m3 (FCFA/m3)  150.8   195.8     215.4      237     247.8    268.8     242     225.8    225.8
Sales (M. FCFA)                                                       419.49 1068.88 2317.19 2548.77 2378.15 2378.15
Leasing/maintenance of meters                                          27.00    65.80  131.50    160.66  160.66   160.66
Advances on consumption                                      30.00     43.11    73.00    32.40        0        0        0
Total revenue (M. FCFA)                     0.00   0.00      30.00    489.60 1,207.68 2,481.09 2,709.42 2,538.80 2,538.80
Expenses
Water production (Mm3)                                                  3.0       7.1     13.7     15.5     15.0     14.8
Supplemental Treatment Products (FCFA/m3)                               41.8     41.8     41.8     41.8     41.8     41.8
Total Production Cost (M. FCFA)                                       125.41  295.60   571.99    647.45  628.95   620.09
Network Maintenance                                                     8.46     8.46     8.46     8.46     8.46     8.46
Consumer services                                                      90.00  219.33   438.33    535.53  535.53   535.53
Tax BIC                                                                72.98  209.02   495.53    526.36  473.12   476.22
Production Cost                                    0.00      0.00     296.85  732.40 1,514.31 1,717.80 1,646.06 1,640.30
Annual Expenses                             0.00   0.00      30.00    192.75  475.28   966.77    991.63  892.75   898.50

Annual net income (M. FCFA)              -281.99 -280.09 -2,894.34 -2,246.93 -450.37  -933.57    -52.15  553.91   898.50




                                                   - 25 -

                                           2006     2007     2008      2009     2010    2011     2012     2013      2014
Data Base
Number of clients/year
Total number of clients                     17851    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851
Average consumption/client                    590      590      590      590      590      590      590      590      590
Network efficiency                           72%       73%     74%      75%      76%      77%      78%      79%      80%

Investment
Engineering studies
Production and Inventory (M. FCFA)
Distribution network (M. FCFA)
Investment Flow (M. FCFA)

Operations
Revenue
Consumption per client (Mm3)                  10.5     10.5     10.5     10.5     10.5    10.5      10.5    10.5     10.5
Average cost consumption <60 m3 (FCFA/m3)   225.8     225.8   225.8    225.8    225.8    225.8    225.8     225.8    225.8
Sales (M. FCFA)                           2378.15 2378.15 2378.15 2378.15 2378.15      2378.15  2378.15  2378.15 2378.15
Leasing/maintenance of meters               160.66   160.66   160.66   160.66   160.66  160.66    160.66  160.66   160.66
Advances on consumption                          0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0        0
Total revenue (M. FCFA)                   2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80
Expenses
Water production (Mm3)                        14.6     14.4     14.2     14.0     13.9    13.7      13.5    13.3     13.2
Supplemental Treatment Products (FCFA/m3)     41.8     41.8     41.8     41.8     41.8    41.8      41.8    41.8     41.8
Total Production Cost (M. FCFA)             611.48   603.10   594.95   587.02   579.30  571.77    564.44  557.30   550.33
Network Maintenance                           8.46     8.46     8.46     8.46     8.46    8.46      8.46    8.46     8.46
Consumer services                           535.53   535.53   535.53   535.53   535.53  535.53    535.53  535.53   535.53
Tax BIC                                     479.23   482.16   485.02   487.79   490.50  493.13    495.70  498.20   500.63
Production Cost                           1,634.70 1,629.26 1,623.96 1,618.80 1,613.78 1,608.89 1,604.13 1,599.48 1,594.96
Annual Expenses                             904.10   909.55   914.85   920.00   925.02  929.91    934.68  939.32   943.85

Annual net income (M. FCFA)                 904.10   909.55   914.85   920.00   925.02  929.91    934.68  939.32   943.85




                                                     - 26 -

                                           2015    2016     2017    2018     2019      2020     2021     2022     2023
Data Base
Number of clients/year
Total number of clients                    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851    17851
Average consumption/client                   590      590      590      590      590      590      590      590      590
Network efficiency                          80%      80%      80%      80%      80%      80%      80%      80%      80%

Investment
Engineering studies
Production and Inventory (M. FCFA)
Distribution network (M. FCFA)
Investment Flow (M. FCFA)

Operations
Revenue
Consumption per client (Mm3)                 10.5    10.5      10.5     10.5     10.5    10.5     10.5     10.5      10.5
Average cost consumption <60 m3 (FCFA/m3)  225.8     225.8    225.8   225.8    225.8     225.8    225.8   225.8    225.8
Sales (M. FCFA)                           2378.15 2378.15 2378.15   2378.15  2378.15  2378.15 2378.15   2378.15  2378.15
Leasing/maintenance of meters              160.66  160.66    160.66   160.66   160.66  160.66   160.66   160.66    160.66
Advances on consumption                         0       0         0        0        0       0        0        0         0
Total revenue (M. FCFA)                  2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80
Expenses
Water production (Mm3)                       13.2    13.2      13.2     13.2     13.2    13.2     13.2     13.2      13.2
Supplemental Treatment Products (FCFA/m3)    41.8    41.8      41.8     41.8     41.8    41.8     41.8     41.8      41.8
Total Production Cost (M. FCFA)            550.33  550.33    550.33   550.33   550.33  550.33   550.33   550.33    550.33
Network Maintenance                          8.46    8.46      8.46     8.46     8.46    8.46     8.46     8.46      8.46
Consumer services                          535.53  535.53    535.53   535.53   535.53  535.53   535.53   535.53    535.53
Tax BIC                                    500.63  500.63    500.63   500.63   500.63  500.63   500.63   500.63    500.63
Production Cost                          1,594.96 1,594.96 1,594.96 1,594.96 1,594.96 1,594.96 1,594.96 1,594.96 1,594.96
Annual Expenses                            943.85  943.85    943.85   943.85   943.85  943.85   943.85   943.85    943.85

Annual net income (M. FCFA)                943.85  943.85    943.85   943.85   943.85  943.85   943.85   943.85    943.85




                                                    - 27 -

                                           2024     2025     2026
Data Base
Number of clients/year
Total number of clients                     17851    17851    17851
Average consumption/client                    590      590      590
Network efficiency                           80%      80%      80%

Investment
Engineering studies
Production and Inventory (M. FCFA)
Distribution network (M. FCFA)
Investment Flow (M. FCFA)

Operations
Revenue
Consumption per client (Mm3)                 10.5      10.5    10.5
Average cost consumption <60 m3 (FCFA/m3)    225.8   225.8     225.8
Sales (M. FCFA)                            2378.15 2378.15  2378.15
Leasing/maintenance of meters               160.66   160.66  160.66
Advances on consumption                         0         0       0
Total revenue (M. FCFA)                   2,538.80 2,538.80 2,538.80
Expenses
Water production (Mm3)                       13.2      13.2    13.2
Supplemental Treatment Products (FCFA/m3)    41.8      41.8    41.8
Total Production Cost (M. FCFA)             550.33   550.33  550.33
Network Maintenance                          8.46      8.46    8.46
Consumer services                           535.53   535.53  535.53
Tax BIC                                     500.63   500.63  500.63
Production Cost                           1,594.96 1,594.96 1,594.96
Annual Expenses                             943.85   943.85  943.85

Annual net income (M. FCFA)                 943.85   943.85 2,874.40


Internal rate of return        IRR=      8.3%




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              May 1995                  3    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL FINANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LAND
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              July 1996                 8    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ACS (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (1); ANCIENT
                                             MONUMENT EXPERT (1);
                                             DIVISION CHIEF (1)


 Supervision
              November 1996             1    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1              S               S
              March 1997                2    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              July 1997                 3    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);            S               S
                                             RESEARCH ASSISTANT (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL FINANCE
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              December 1997             1    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)             HS             HS
              March 1998                4    TTL (1); SECTOR MANAGER          S               S
                                             (1); SANITATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              November 1998             3    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT, FIN. SP. (1);
                                             INFRA. SPECIALIST (1)
              March 1999                6    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);        S               S
                                             URBAN PLANNER (1);
                                             WATER & SANITATION SP
                                             (1); CONS. INST. & FIN. SP.
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); CONS. FIN. ANALYST (1)
              February 2000             4    URBAN SPECIALIST (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT, FIN. SP. (1);
                                             INFRA. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              April 2000                1    WATER AND SANITATION             S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              Nobember 2000             3    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);        S               S



                                              - 29 -

                          ROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
      April 2001        3 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST       S    S
                          (1); SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                          (1); SR. WATER SPECIALIST
                          (1)
      July 2001         8 TTL; URBAN SPECIALIST (1);   S    S
                          PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                          SPECIALIST (1); WATER AND
                          SANITATION SPECIALIST (1);
                          PROGRAM ASSISTANT (2);
                          FIANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
      June 2002         2 WATER AND SANITATION         S    S
                          SPECIALIST (1);
                          PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1);
      July 2002         3 URBAN SPECIALIST (1);        S    S
                          PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                          SPECIALIST (1)
      March 2003        2 WATER AND SANITATION         S    S
                          SPECIALIST (1);
                          PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1);
      May 2003          4 TEAM LEADER (1); WATER       S    S
                          AND SANITATION
                          SPECIALIST (1);
                          PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1); CONSULTANT
      September 2003    3 TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                          MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                          PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1)
      February 2004     3 TEAM LEADER (1);             S    U
                          MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                          PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1)
      December 2004     4 TTL (1); PROCUREMENT         S    U
                          SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1);
                          CONSULTANT (1)
      April 2005        6 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);      S    U
                          URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                          SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                          PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                          (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                          (1); CONSULTANT (1)

ICR




                          - 30 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           12.30                        50,456
  Appraisal/Negotiation                30.40                       167,600
  Supervision                          78.24                       190,700
  ICR                                   7.00                        32,678
  Total                              127.94                        441,434




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank's back to office reports and aide-mémoires
 Study of consolidated balance sheets, income analysis and monitoring of the enforcement of Municipal
contracts by project cities, June 2005
 Municipal Contract Model
 EDM's Completion report, 2005
 Government's Completion Report, 2005
 Social Impact Studies on Land Development, 2000
 Financials audits
 Technical audits reports (exercices 97-2000, 2000-2005)




                                                  - 34 -

     Additional Annex 8. Partner's Contribution


I.   INTRODUCTION


Si le Premier Projet Urbain du Mali a eu comme objectif fondamental d'aider le Gouvernement du Mali à fournir des
services urbains à un prix abordable aux Populations à faible revenu, le Deuxième visait à l'aider à (i) améliorer la
productivité des villes, (ii) lutter contre la pauvreté et (iii) réagir face à la crise de plus en plus grave de l'environnement
urbain.

Aussi, dans l'optique d'un renforcement de la dynamique créée à la fin du Deuxième Projet Urbain du Mali exécuté sur
appui financier de la Banque Mondiale, le Gouvernement de la République du Mali a lancé, à partir du dernier trimestre
de 1992, la préparation du Troisième Projet Urbain du Mali dénommé Projet Développement Urbain et
Décentralisation (PDUD) axé sur la mise en oeuvre de la Politique Sectorielle de Développement Urbain (PSDU)
dont l'objectif est de créer les conditions pour améliorer le cadre de vie des Populations en renforçant particulièrement
la lutte contre la pauvreté urbaine, avec comme cadre général d'action la Décentralisation.

Le Projet Développement Urbain et Décentralisation (PDUD), qui vient de s'achever a été l'un des outils de mise en
oeuvre de ladite Politique. Le PDUD a été financé conjointement :
- sur financement intérieur par : le Gouvernement de la République du Mali, les Municipalités bénéficiaires, la Société
Energie du Mali (EDM-Sa) et l'Agence de Cessions Immobilières (ACI);
- sur financement extérieur par : la Banque Mondiale (IDA), la Coopération Allemande (KFW), la Coopération
Française (AFD et FAC) et la Coopération Canadienne (ACDI).


II. RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET


Le Projet Développement Urbain et Décentralisation (PDUD) a pour objectif principal l'amélioration de la mise à
disposition d'infrastructures urbaines de manière durable par les Municipalités, en partenariat avec le Gouvernement, le
Secteur Privé et les Collectivités par :
i) le développement des capacités de gestion des Municipalités, l'élévation du niveau de leurs performances, le
renforcement du fonctionnement et de l'entretien des infrastructures, l'amélioration de la planification, de la
programmation, de la budgétisation, de la gestion financière et de la génération de revenus;
ii) l'amélioration de la fourniture de services urbains, particulièrement dans les Quartiers les plus pauvres, par des
investissements appropriés dans des infrastructures de base (notamment l'alimentation en eau potable) et dans des
infrastructures pour les activités économiques, tout en améliorant l'environnement urbain et en créant des emplois par
des travaux à haute intensité de main d'oeuvre;
iii) la sauvegarde des cités et monuments historiques du Mali classés comme sites du Patrimoine Mondial, en
coopération avec l'UNESCO et les Collectivités concernées;
iv) la poursuite de l'amélioration du Marché Foncier Urbain dans la continuité du Deuxième Projet Urbain du Mali
précédemment financé par l'IDA, tout en oeuvrant à la privatisation formelle progressive du Marché Foncier, en créant
de nouvelles sources de revenus pour les Municipalités, et en guidant le Développement Urbain.


III. JUSTIFICATION DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET


La Reforme Administrative de Décentralisation entreprise par le Gouvernement du Mali                      se définit comme un
approfondissement du processus démocratique adaptant le rôle et l'organisation de l'État aux objectifs et exigences de
l'émergence d'une Démocratie Locale et d'un nouveau cadre de promotion du développement à partir des
préoccupations, ressources et savoir-faire des Populations.

Le Troisième Projet Urbain du Mali dénommé "Projet Développement Urbain et Décentralisation" s'inscrit dans ce
contexte se traduisant par :
- le renforcement des capacités locales des Municipalités et du Gouvernement;
- la poursuite de l'appui à la création d'emplois urbains au bénéfice des travailleurs peu ou pas qualifiés contribuant



                                                                   - 35 -

ainsi à la réduction de la pauvreté;
- la réalisation d'infrastructures essentielles pour les activités économiques;
- l'accroissement de la participation du Secteur Privé dans le processus de développement, notamment la mise en
oeuvre de prestations de services de consultant, la réalisation de travaux et l'acquisition de terrains aménagés.

Il s'agira alors de mettre en oeuvre un certain nombre d'actions visant l'amélioration de la mobilisation des ressources
des Communes, aussi bien anciennes que nouvelles, et le renforcement des investissements dans les Villes
Secondaires tout en ciblant au maximum les Populations à faibles revenus.


IV. COMPOSANTES DU PROJET


Le Projet a porté, comme suit, sur un Programme d'Investissements et d'appui institutionnel à travers cinq (5)
Composantes.

4.1Composante Développement des Capacités

Au titre de cette Composante, le Projet a visé le développement des capacités de gestion des Municipalités et le
renforcement des capacités de suivi du Gouvernement. Les actions identifiées se déclinaient comme suit :
- Mise en place de Mesures d'Accompagnement par la réalisation d'études pour l'établissement d'une Redevance
Urbaine au niveau des Communes du Mali et la revue du Code Domaniale et Foncier;
- Mise en place d'Outils de Gestion par la réalisation de Bases de Données Urbaines, de Bases de Données Finances
Locales, d'opérations d'Adressage des villes de Kayes, Sikasso, Ségou, Mopti et Gao et le complètement de Bamako,
d'études d'amélioration de la Gestion de la Fiscalité Locale (Patente) et de gestion des équipements marchands
(Marchés et Gares Routières) et la mise en place de Système de Gestion Performant du District de Bamako et des
Communes du Mali;
- Appui à la Gestion Urbaine à travers l'acquisition et la mise à dispositions d'Equipements informatiques et de
véhicules au bénéfice des Municipalités du Projet, des Structures du Gouvernement désignées à cet effet et la
réalisation de services d'Assistance Technique au bénéfice des Municipalités du Projet;
- Formation et Encadrement au bénéfice du Personnel fonctionnaire du Gouvernement, des Elus et du Personnel des
Municipalités et du Personnel du Secteur Privé.

4.2Composante Infrastructures Urbaines de Base

Au titre de cette Composante, il s'agira de réaliser des investissements visant à améliorer les infrastructures et
l'environnement urbains, à savoir :
- Entretien des Infrastructures Urbaines de base existantes des villes de Bamako, Kayes, Koulikoro, Sikasso,
Ségou, Mopti, Tombouctou, Gao et Kidal par la prise en charge des coûts d'entretien des ouvrages relevant de la
gestion et du patrimoine de leur Municipalité, notamment les routes, le drainage, l'assainissement, l'éclairage public, la
signalisation routière, les marchés et gares routières quand ils ne sont pas gérés par le Secteur Privé et les écoles et
centres de santé quand ils ne relèvent pas du Gouvernement et du Secteur Privé;
- Réhabilitation et Reconstruction de Route de Bamako (24,1Km), Kayes (14,5 Km), Koulikoro (15,2 Km), Sikasso
(21,8 Km), Ségou (21,0 Km), Mopti-Sévaré (20,5 Km), Tombouctou (17,1 Km) et Gao (14,0 Km);
- Réalisation d'Actions Pilotes d'Assainissement à Mopti et Bamako, notamment l'élaboration d'une Stratégie de
Gestion des Déchets Solides de Bamako et mise en oeuvre d'une Opération Pilote, la lutte contre la pollution dans la
Zone Industrielle de Sotuba à Bamako et l'exécution d'une opération Pilote d'Assainissement de Mopti;
- Amélioration des conditions de vie dans 7 Quartiers de Bamako dans le cadre du "Programme Spécial Sauvons
Notre Quartier" (Bougoudani et Daoudabougou) et dans le cadre des Quartiers Pauvres Périurbains (Koulouba,
Niomérambougou, Point G, Samé et Sogonanfing);
- Aménagement de Terrains pour des Activités Economiques par la construction ou réhabilitation de marchés et
gares routières à Bamako (Gares routières de Medine et de Djikoroni-Para), Kayes (Grand Marché), Koulikoro
(Marchés de Koulikoro-ba et Koulikoro-Gare et Gare Routière de Souban), Sikasso (Gare Routière de Sanoubougou,
Grand Marché et Marché de Médine), Ségou (Gare Routière de l'Hippodrome et Marchés de l'Autogare et du Château)
et Mopti (Station des taxis Bas-fonds et Gare Routière du Lycée de Sévaré).

4.3Composante Cités et Monuments Historiques



                                                             - 36 -

Pour cette Composante qui est une innovation dans la mise en oeuvre des Projets de Développement Urbain au Mali, il
s'agissait de mettre en oeuvre des actions de préservation des Cités et Monuments historiques classés dans le
Patrimoine Mondial, à savoir :
- Tombouctou : Réalisation d'un Plan d'Aménagement de la Ville avec analyse de la morphologie urbaine et des
constructions; Mise en valeur du tissu urbain ancien; Valorisation des éléments culturels et touristiques que sont les
Mosquées de Djingareïber, Sankoré, Sidi Yahia et Alpha Sékou; Actions de sauvegarde des Mausolées, Cimetières et
Mosquées;
- Djenné : Elaboration du Plan d'Aménagement de la Ville; Réorganisation du réseau de voirie; Protection des berges
et aménagement du Port; Assainissement et évacuation des eaux usées domestiques; Aménagement d'espaces verts;
Aménagement et mise en valeur de la Mosquée; Construction d'un Complexe Musée-Maison Culturelle; Opération de
sauvegarde et de mise en valeur des sites archéologiques;
- Sanctuaire Naturel de la Falaise de Bandiagara : Construction d'un Centre de Documentation à Bandiagara;
Aménagement et renforcement des conditions d'accès aux pistes touristiques de Sangha; Requalification du
Campement de Songho; Amélioration du site des Grottes Rupestres de Songho;
- Bamako : Construction de la Bibliothèque Nationale; Construction du Centre National des Archives; Construction du
Centre National de Documentation;
- Niono : Réalisation du bilan sanitaire de la Mosquée de Vendredi et de ses abords; Programmation d'un
accompagnement paysager de la Mosquée de Vendredi.

4.4Composante Alimentation en Eau Potable à Bamako et Mopti

Au titre de cette Composante, le Projet tente de répondre à la question fondamentale de savoir "comment alimenter la
ville de Bamako en cas de pollution du Fleuve Niger?" et de mettre en oeuvre d'actions spécifiques pour la satisfaction
des besoins immédiats d'alimentation en eau de Bamako et Mopti, à savoir :
- Renforcement de la Capacité d'Alimentation en Eau Potable à Bamako par la construction et mise en service de
trois réservoirs de 6.000 m3 de capacité sur la Rive droite, la fourniture et pose de 150 Km de canalisations et de
Matériel pour la réalisation de 15.000 Branchements sociaux, la réalisation d'une étude du développement du Système
d'Alimentation en Eau Potable de la ville de Bamako à l'horizon 2010 avec élaboration d'un Schéma Directeur y
compris un Plan d'Investissement Décennal et l'élaboration et mise en oeuvre d'un Plan d'Action Environnemental;
- Renforcement de la Capacité d'Alimentation en Eau Potable à Mopti par la réalisation de travaux et pose de 32 Km
de canalisation et la fourniture de Matériel pour la réalisation de 1.000 Branchements Sociaux.

4.5Composante Viabilisation de Terrains pour l'Habitat à Bamako

A travers cette Composante, le Projet vise à renforcer la capacité de production de terrains viabilisés à Bamako (au
moins 750 ha ou 15.000 Lots) pour la promotion du Marché Foncier, à savoir :
- Baco-Djicoroni : réalisation d'un Programme de 5.000 lots équipés de voirie et drainage et relié aux réseaux d'eau
potable, d'électricité et de téléphone avec ente au enchères de 70% des lots avec Titres Fonciers et recouvrement total
des coûts et Cession administrative des 30% des lots dans le cadre de l'appui au Programme Spécial "Sauvons Notre
Quartier" de la Commune V du District de Bamako;
- Yirimadio & Sotuba : réalisation des études techniques et socio-économiques pour la viabilisation des deux sites en
terme de Voirie et Assainissement et d'alimentation en Eau Potable et en Electricité


V. GESTION DU PROJET


Pour une mise en oeuvre cohérente des différentes actions retenues, le Projet s'est exécuté sous la responsabilité
conceptuelle d'un Comité de Coordination du Projet (CoCP) créé suivant le Décret N°96-157/P-RM du 31 Mai 1996
et dont la présidence est assurée par le Ministre chargé de l'Urbanisme. Il est composé des représentants des
départements ministériels et structures impliquées dans la gestion urbaine et la réforme administrative de la
décentralisation.

La mise en oeuvre effective du Projet a été faite à partir de quatre (4) points focaux ou Agences d'Exécution
en tenant compte du principe fondamental qui sous-tend la politique de décentralisation, à savoir : une totale Maîtrise
d'Ouvrage des Municipalités et Structures concernées et une Maîtrise d'Ouvrage Déléguée pour les Agences
d'Exécution.



                                                              - 37 -

La Cellule de Coordination du Projet (CeCP), en plus de sa mission de Secrétariat Technique du CoCP, a eu en charge
la mise en oeuvre de la Composante Développement des Capacités en tandem avec la Cellule du Projet d'Appui aux
Communes Urbaines du Mali (PACUM) sous la coordination , dans un premier temps, de la Mission de Décentralisation
et des Réformes Institutionnelle (MDRI), puis de la Direction Nationale des Collectivités Territoriales (DNCT). Ces deux
structures ayant été identifiées comme responsables de la mise en oeuvre de la Réforme Administrative de
Décentralisation au Mali.

Pour son fonctionnement, la CeCP qui est une structure légère composée de 6 agents (1 Coordinateur du Projet, 1
Chargé des Affaires Administratives et Financières de la Cellule, 1 Chargé de Communication, 2 Secrétaires de
Direction et 1 Chauffeur) est dotée d'un "Manuel de mise en oeuvre du Projet" et d'un "Manuel de procédures
administratives, financières et comptables" complété par un "Manuel de Décaissement".

L'Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d'Intérêt Public pour l'Emploi (AGETIPE-MALI) a eu en charge la mise en oeuvre de
la Composante Infrastructures Urbaines de Base et de la Composante Cités et Monuments Historiques sur la base de 3
types de Conventions de Maîtrise d'Ouvrage Déléguée conclues respectivement avec le Gouvernement, le Ministère
chargé de la Culture et les Municipalités bénéficiaires. L'Agence dispose d'un "Manuel de mise en oeuvre" qui lui est
propre ainsi qu'un Accord de Projet conclu avec l'IDA.

La Société Energie du Mali (EDM-Sa) a eu en charge, par Maîtrise d'ouvrage déléguée, la mise en oeuvre de la
Composante Alimentation en Eau Potable à Bamako et Mopti sous la maîtrise d'ouvrage du Ministère chargé de
l'Hydraulique à travers la Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique (DNH). A cet effet, EDM-Sa a conclu un Accord de Projet
avec l'IDA et des Accords subsidiaires avec le Gouvernement.

L'Agence de Cessions Immobilières (ACI) a eu en charge, par Maîtrise d'ouvrage déléguée, la mise en oeuvre de la
Composante Viabilisation de Terrains pour l'Habitat à Bamako sous la maîtrise d'ouvrage du Ministère chargé de
l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat à travers la Direction Nationale de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat (DNUH). A cet effet, ACI a
conclu un Accord de Projet avec l'IDA et des Accords subsidiaires avec le Gouvernement.

AGETIPE-MALI, EDM-Sa et ACI rendent compte trimestriellement de leurs activités, à travers des rapports
circonstanciés, à la Cellule de Coordination du Projet qui produit un Rapport de Synthèse destiné au Comité de
Coordination et aux PTF du Projet.


VI. FINANCEMENT DU PROJET


Le coût global du Projet est évalué à cent cinquante quatre millions cinq cent quatre vint trois mille Dollars des
Etats-Unis (154.583.000 $US) soit environ soixante dix neuf milliards six cent dix millions deux cent quarante cinq mille
Francs CFA (79 610 245 000 FCFA) se répartissant comme suit :

                                            DESIGNATION                                   ESTIMATION
                        N°                     Composantes                        US Dollars      Francs CFA

                          i. Développement des Capacités                            7 356 600      3 788 649 000
                         ii. Infrastructures Urbaines de base                      83 266 000    42 881 990 000
                         iii. Cités et Monuments Historiques                       12 094 700      6 228 770 500
                         iv. Alimentation en Eau Potable à Bamako et Mopti         17 766 300      9 149 644 500
                         v. Viabilisation de Terrains pour l'Habitat à Bamako      13 936 200      7 177 143 000
                                          vi.                    Coût de base : 134 419 800      69 226 197 000
                                         vii.         Majoration pour Aléas :      20 163 200    10 384 048 000
                                         viii.                    Coût Global : 154 583 000      79 610 245 000



Le montant effectif de la participation de la Partie Malienne et des Partenaires Techniques et Financiers au financement
des actions du Projet est estimée comme suit :




                                                             - 38 -

           N°       SOURCE DE               PREVISIONS                        REALISATIONS
                   FINANCEMENT       US$ Millions   Taux (%)    FCFA Millions      US$ Millions   Taux (%)


            1. Gouvernement                    8,700     5,63           8 418,312          15,532       11,38
            2. Municipalités                   3,000     1,94           1 133,470           2,091        1,53
            3. EDM-Sa                          1,000     0,65           1 734,829           3,201        2,34
            4. ACI                             0,800     0,52             581,472           1,073        0,79
            5. Banque Mondiale (IDA)          80,000    51,75          44 155,114          81,467       59,68
            6. ICCROM                          0,200     0,13               0,000           0,000        0,00
            7. Canada (ACDI)                  15,000     9,70             800,000           1,476        1,08
            8. France (AFD & FAC)             20,000    12,94          10 084,295          18,606       13,63
            9. Allemagne (KFW)                 7,000     4,53           1 841,923           3,398        2,49
           10.BOAD                             0,000     0,00           4 975,801           9,180        6,72
           11.Japon (JICA)                     0,000     0,00             265,629           0,490        0,36
           12.Autres                          18,883    12,22               0,000           0,000        0,00


                             Totaux :        154,583   100,00          73 990,845         136,514     100,00




VII. RESULTATS OBTENUS ET IMPACTS DU PROJET


7.1Résultats Obtenus

La mise en place de mesures d'accompagnement s'est traduite, d'une part, par la réalisation d'une étude de
faisabilité d'une Redevance Urbaine au niveau des Communes du Mali dont l'objectif visé est la mobilisation de
ressources pour la prise en charge de l'entretien des équipements et infrastructures relevant de leur gestion propre et,
d'autre part, par la reproduction et diffusion auprès des usagers de 3.000 exemplaires du nouveau Code Domanial et
Foncier et ses différents textes d'application.

La mise en place d'outils de gestion urbaine et municipale s'est traduite, en matière de planification urbaine, par
l'actualisation des outils comme les Plans Urbains de Référence (PUR) et les Inventaires pour la Programmation des
Infrastructures et Equipements (IPIE) des villes du Projet et la révision des Schémas Directeurs d'Urbanisme (SDU)
des villes de Bamako, Sikasso, Ségou, Tombouctou et Djenné. C'est ainsi qu'à ce jour toutes les villes du Mali,
Chefs-lieux de Région ou de Cercle, sont dotées d'outils de planification urbaine du premier degré;

En matière d'amélioration des ressources des Municipalités, il a été réalisé, d'une part, des opérations d'adressage des
villes de Bamako, Kayes, Sikasso, Ségou, Mopti et Gao avec mise à disposition de fichiers informatiques sur l'index
des rues et les plans d'adressage et, d'autre part, une Base de Données des Finances Locales au niveau des
Communes du District de Bamako ainsi qu'une étude sur la gestion des équipements marchands de Bamako (RAMD,
BRCTU, Gare Routière et Marché de Médine, Grand Marché et Gare Routière de Djicoroni-Para), Mopti (Marché
Sakarowel et Marché Ottawa) et Gao (Marché aux Légumes, Marché Washington et Marché de Nuit).

En terme d'appui à la gestion urbaine, les acquis ont porté sur, d'une part, la fourniture d'équipements informatiques,
de mobiliers de bureau et de véhicules et la réhabilitation de locaux au bénéfice des Municipalités du Projet et des
Structures chargées de leur encadrement ainsi que les Structures du Ministère de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme et, d'autre
part, la réalisation de missions d'assistance technique sur les aspects suivants : (i) Appui à l'amélioration de la Gestion
du District et des Communes du Projet; (ii) Création de la Cellule de Communication et du Centre de Documentation et
d'Information du District de Bamako (CODI); (iii) Elaboration de la Stratégie de Gestion des Déchets Solides de
Bamako; (iv) Etude de faisabilité de la réhabilitation de la Zone Industrielle de Sotuba; (v) Appui à la création d'un
Centre de Ressources de l'Association des Municipalités du Mali (AMM); (vi) Audit technique et organisationnel de la
Direction Nationale de l'Urbanisme et de la Construction (DNUC) ayant conduit à son érection en Direction Nationale de
l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat (DNUH); (vii) Audit technique et organisationnel de la Direction Nationale de la Cartographie
et de la Topographie (DNCT) ayant conduit à sa restructuration en Institut Géographique du Mali (IGM); (viii) Audit
informatique et organisationnel de la Direction Administrative et Financière du Ministère de l'Equipement, de
l'Aménagement du Territoire, de l'Environnement et de l'Urbanisme.

Les formations et encadrements assurés au bénéfice du Personnel fonctionnaire du Gouvernement (135




                                                           - 39 -

bénéficiaires), des Elus et du Personnel des Municipalités (225 bénéficiaires) et du Personnel du Secteur Privé (5
bénéficiaires) ont porté sur des domaines comme l'informatique, la gestion des projets et la gestion            urbaine et
municipale.

En terme d'entretien des Infrastructures Urbaines de base existantes, pour un montant total mobilisé de
3.187.970.300 FCFA (2.054.500.000 FCFA au compte de l'Etat et 1.133.470.300 FCFA au compte des Municipalités)
et à travers 333 Contrats de prestation de services conclus, les réalisations ont porté sur : (i) le curage des caniveaux
et l'évacuation des déblais; (ii) le balayage des voies revêtues; (iii) la collecte des déchets solides et leur évacuation
jusqu'à des décharges; (iv) la construction et la réhabilitation de bâtiments municipaux; (v) les travaux d'aménagement
urbain; (vi) la réhabilitation de salles de classes; (vii) la clôture de cimetières.

Sur le plan réhabilitation et reconstruction de Route, les actions ont porté sur la réalisation à :
- Bamako de : 40,204 Km de voies bitumées; 7,860 Km de collecteurs; 26,455 Km de caniveaux; 1,206 Km de
cunettes;
- Kayes de : 14,282 Km de voies bitumées; 18,155 Km de caniveaux; 0,350 Km de tunnel;
- Koulikoro de : 1,992 Km de voies bitumées; 2,400 Km de caniveaux;
- Sikasso de : 17,483 Km de voies bitumées; 25,600 Km de caniveaux; 3,500 Km de dalettes préfabriquées; 21,998
Km de bordure du type T2 discontinue et du type GSS2; 9 ouvrages d'art crées ou réhabilités
- Ségou de : 17,570 Km de voies bitumées; 2,975 Km de collecteur; 15,000 Km de caniveaux; 10,000 Km de bordure
du type GSS2; réhabilitation des berges du fleuve Niger avec réparation de la partie supérieure détériorée du Quai et
réalisation d'une amorce d'éclairage public sur certaines zones.
- Mopti de : 3,429 Km de voies bitumées à Mopti; 5,606 Km de voies bitumées à Sévaré; 1,254 Km de collecteur à
Sévaré; 4,750 Km de canal digue et 3 Bassins de décharge à Sévaré;
- Gao de : 5,500 Km de voies bitumées; 5,800 Km de caniveaux; 10,700 Km de bordures; 72 ml de dalots; 1,064 Km
de dalles; 72 panneaux de signalisation.

En matière de réalisation d'Actions Pilotes d'Assainissement à Mopti et Bamako, les acquis ont porté, d'une part,
sur l'élaboration de la Stratégie de Gestion des Déchets Solides de Bamako qui, approuvée par le Gouvernement , lors
de sa session du Mercredi 25 Juin 2003, est un instrument de suivi à l'usage des Autorités du District et des
Communes de Bamako traitant de tous les aspects de la filière déchets solides : le Cadre Structurel et Institutionnel, la
Pré-collecte, la Collecte, les Décharges Contrôlées et Compactées, la Production de Compost, les Déchets Industriels
Banals, la Surveillance et du Contrôle, la Sensibilisation et de la Participation des Citoyens, la Formation des
Intervenants, le Financement de la Filière Déchets et, d'autre part, sur la réalisation d'une Opération Pilote
d'Assainissement à Mopti comprenant : la construction d'une Décharge Finale; la construction de deux Stations
d'épuration; la construction d'un réseau d'eaux pluviales; la construction d'un réseau d'eaux usées; la pavage de
certaines voies utilisées comme voies drainantes.

En matière d'amélioration des conditions de vie dans les "Quartiers Pauvres Périurbains" de Bamako, les
actions ont porté sur l'appui à la mise en oeuvre du "Programme Spécial Sauvons Notre Quartier" pour 7 Quartiers du
District de Bamako (Commune III : Koulouba, Niomirambougou, Point G, Samé et Sogonanfing; Commune IV :
Bougoudani; Commune V : Daoudabougou) à travers des travaux d'adduction d'eau avec installation de 77 bornes
fontaines, la fourniture et pose de 25,130 Km de canalisation et des travaux d'alimentation électrique avec pose de
1.324 poteaux, 4 IACM, 13 parafoudres, 12 transformateurs, 465 points lumineux pour l'éclairage public et tirage de
11,67 Km de câble MT, de 42,74 Km de câble BT.

En matière d'aménagement de terrains pour des activités économiques, il s'agit, entre autres, de la construction et
ou réhabilitation de chaussées et voiries revêtues, de caniveaux de drainage des eaux pluviales, de mise en place de
signalisation verticales et horizontales, de réseaux d'adduction d'eau potable et de sécurité incendie et de système
d'éclairage public, de plantation d'arbres, de la construction de boutiques, d'abris, de plates-formes de débarquement,
des locaux d'hébergement, des attentes voyageurs, des bureaux pour administration et contrôle, des latrines, des
kiosques à eau, des casiers à déchets, mosquée, etc.... Les acquis portent sur la réalisation à :
- Bamako : (i) de la Gare routière de Médine avec, entre autres, une plate-forme aménagée pour 500 véhicules sur
une aire totale de 3ha 47a 21ca et la réhabilitation ou construction de 1,200 Km de voie bitumée (Rue 160, Rue 57 et
Rue 23). La Gare a été mise en service le 10 Juin 2001; (ii) la Gare routière de Djikoroni-Para constituée d'une
plate-forme pour 200 véhicules sur une aire totale de 1ha 47a 15ca;
- Kayes : de la réhabilitation du Grand Marché;
- Koulikoro : (i) de la réhabilitation du Marché de Koulikoro-Gare, (ii) de la construction du Marché de Koulikoro-Ba et
(iii) de construction de la Gare Routière de Souban. Prévus par le PDUD, lesdits travaux ont été réalisés, par



                                                                  - 40 -

anticipation, dans le cadre de la Phase AGETIPE-I du Programme KFW;
- Sikasso : (i) de la Gare Routière de Sanoubougou, (ii) du Marché Central et (iii) du Marché de Médine;
- Ségou : (i) de la Gare Routière de l'Hippodrome, (ii) du Marché de l'Autogare et (iii) du Marché du Château;
- Mopti : (i) de la Station des taxis Bas-fonds et (ii) de la Gare Routière du Lycée de Sévaré sur une aire totale de
1ha 83a 89ca.

A Tombouctou les réalisations ont porté sur (i) l'élaboration en 3 phases du Plan de Revitalisation et de Sauvegarde de
la vieille ville de Tombouctou qui, en plus des aspects stratégiques identifie un Programme Prioritaire avec production
d'un DAO pour sa réalisation, (ii) l'exécution d'actions de sauvegarde des Mausolées, Cimetières et Mosquées dans le
cadre de la valorisation des éléments culturels que sont les Mosquées de Djingareïber, Sankoré, Sidi Yahia et Alpha
Sékou et des cimetières et mausolées Diamane Hamane, Sidi Mahamoud, Alpha Moya, Sidi El Moctar, Idjina Thina
Sarey et Sidi El Wafi et (iii) l'élaboration du Plan Stratégique d'Assainissement de la ville de Tombouctou traitant
l'assainissement des eaux usées (eaux grises), eaux pluviales et ordures ménagères de la ville d'un coût global de 5,60
milliards de FCFA. En tenant compte des contraintes budgétaires et des observations alors formulées par tous les
Partenaires Techniques Financiers du Projet, notamment la KFW et l'IDA, une version finale évaluée à 3,20 milliards
de FCFA a été retenue avec des interventions qui s'articulent sur le réseau principal et l'aménagement des zones
hautement touristiques comme la Place de l'Indépendance et les alentours du Grand Marché.

A Djenné les réalisations ont porté sur des actions pilotes du "Plan Stratégique d'Assainissement de la Ville de Djenné"
réalisé par la Direction Nationale d'Assainissement et du Contrôle des Pollutions et des Nuisances (DNACPN),
notamment le drainage des eaux pluviales de 20 Rues par la création de 6,495 Km de caniveaux, la pose de 1.699
dalles de couverture, 426 dalles de traversées et 410 dalles simples.

Pour le Sanctuaire Naturel de la Falaise de Bandiagara les réalisations portant essentiellement sur la préservation et
la promotion de l'héritage historique et culturel Dogon comprennent : (i) la construction de la bretelle Songho - RN15
(Route Sévaré ­ Bandiagara), soit 4 Km de piste latéritique avec 3 radiers submersibles, (ii) la réalisation de
l'adduction d'eau de Songho constitué d'un forage équipé d'un château d'eau de 15 m3, d'une pompe solaire et de 5
bornes-fontaines, (iii) la réhabilitation du Campement Communautaire de Songho, (iv) la construction de la Porte
d'Entrée de Sangha, (v) la construction d'un monument à Sangha et (vi) la construction d'un Village Artisanal à
Sangha.

A Bamako les réalisations ont porté, d'une part, sur l'appui à l'élaboration du Plan d'Aménagement de la Vieille-Ville de
Bamako et, d'autre part, la construction, sur le site de ACI-2000, du Complexe Culturel comprenant (i) la Bibliothèque
Nationale, (ii) le Centre National des Archives et (iii) le Centre National de Documentation. Cette activité, prévue par le
PDUD a été entièrement financé par la Présidence de la République pour près de 3 milliards de FCFA.

Le renforcement de la capacité d'alimentation en eau potable à Bamako s'est traduite par une augmentation de
capacité de stockage de 6.000 m3 (1 Réservoir de 3.500 m3 sur la Colline de Badalabougou, 1 Réservoir de 2.000 m3
sur la Colline Outakoulouni et 1 Bâche de reprise de 500 m3 à Faladié-Séma) y compris l'extension du réseau de
distribution portant sur la réalisation de 152 km de canalisations dans les Quartiers de Kalaban-coura, Daoudabougou,
Flabougou, Carrefour de Niamakoro et Faladié Village et Faladiè-IJA et la réalisation de 15.000 nouveaux
branchements.

Il a également été procédé à la réalisation de travaux d'optimisation de la Station de traitement d'eau de Djikoroni qui
ont porté sur l'installation de décanteurs et la réhabilitation des filtres et la recherche d'eaux souterraines portant sur,
d'une part, l'implantation et la réalisation de 20 forages d'exploration dans un rayon de 25 Km autour de Bamako dont
17 avec piézomètres ayant confirmé la disponibilité de ressources en eau entre 130 et 160 m de profondeur et, d'autre
part, l'exécution de 16 forages d'exploitation dont 11 se sont avérés productifs et ont été équipés de piézomètres.

Il a enfin été réalisé d'études de développement du réseau à l'horizon 2010 portant sur le diagnostic du système de
distribution d'eau et l'analyse de la demande en eau avec élaboration du Plan Directeur d'Alimentation en Eau de
Bamako comprenant une étude des variantes de production, un Plan d'Investissement Décennal et l'avant-projet
détaillé (DA) et le dossier d'appel d'offres ('DAO) de la Première Tranche de Projet axée sur l'étude de faisabilité de la
nouvelle Station de traitement d'eau, le DAO relatif à la première phase de travaux de cette station et l'étude
préliminaire d'une conduite d'eau traitée DN 1200 prévue pour relier la station aux réservoirs de Baco-Djicoroni (site
aménagé par ACI dans le cadre du PDUD).

Le renforcement de la capacité d'alimentation en eau potable à Mopti s'est traduite par une extension du réseau
de distribution portant sur la réalisation de 56,5 km de canalisations et l'installation de 59 bornes-fontaines dans les
Quartiers de Médina-Coura, Mopti-Ville, Bougoufié, Toguel, Sévaré et Sokoura, la réalisation de 540 nouveaux



                                                              - 41 -

branchements et la réhabilitation de digue d'accès à la Station de Pompage de Mopti.

L'aménagement du site de Baco­Djicoroni Sud sur une superficie totale de 230ha 11a 53ca s'est traduit par (i) la
création de 4.595 parcelles à usage d'habitation et d'équipements dont 420 Le quota initial était de 30%, soit 1.378
parcelles. Cependant, suite à l'audit du processus de cession faite par la Municipalité de la Commune V, le chiffre définitif a été
ramené à un besoin à couvrir de 420 parcelles : 13 ménages recasés par ACI (purge), 108 ménages restés sur leurs parcelles
d'origine et 299 ménages identifiés comme vrai déguerpis non recasés. affectées au besoin de recasement du Programme
Spécial "Sauvons Notre Quartier" de la Commune V du District de Bamako et le reste vendu aux enchères publiques, la
construction d'un réseau de voirie et drainage comprenant 5,400 Km de voiries revêtues, 46,400 Km de voies
latéritiques et 21,345 Km de caniveaux, (ii) la réalisation d'un réseau d'eau potable comprenant 1 Station de Pompage,
1 Château d'Eau, 10 poteaux d'incendie et 16,855 Km de canalisation, la réalisation d'un réseau d'électricité et
d'éclairage public comprenant 7,040 Km de ligne MT, 17,070 Km de ligne BT, 9 postes de transformation et 199 points
lumineux et (iii) la mise à disposition de 29 emplacements pour équipements collectifs, espaces verts et places
publiques : 2 Groupes Scolaires, 1 Lycée d'Enseignement Général (Lycée Mansa Makan Diabaté), 3 Mosquées, 1
Eglise, 2 Centres de Santé, 1 Centre de Secours, 2 Jardins d'enfants, 1 Parc d'attraction, 1 Gare routière, 1 Marché
central, 1 Super Marché, 1 emplacement pour équipements sportifs, 4 Aires de stationnement (Parkings), 5 Places
publiques et 2 Zones vertes.

Pour les sites de Sotuba et de Yirimadio, il a été mené un ensemble d'études qui ont permis, d'une part, le
démarrage des travaux d'aménagement de Sotuba et, d'autre part, la réalisation d'une partie du Programme de
Logements Sociaux (PROCOLOS) initié par le Président de la République du Mali, Son Excellence Amadou Toumani
TOURE, et la satisfaction d'une partie des besoins des Promoteurs Immobiliers dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre des
recommandations de la Stratégie Nationale de Logement (SNL).

7.2Impacts du Projet

Pour un Développement Urbain Durable au Mali, le Projet devrait palier à un certain nombre de contraintes, notamment
celles liées à l'insuffisance et à la mauvaise répartition spatiale des services urbains de base, comme l'alimentation en
eau potable, avec souvent des problèmes aigus d'accessibilité (physique, économique) et de qualité.

En outre, le District de Bamako et les Communes du Projet, avec leur nouveau statut de structures décentralisées,
donc avec de nouvelles attributions, avaient une situation administrative et organisationnelle caractérisée, entre autres,
par une insuffisance de ressources municipales (faiblesse des recettes, non maîtrise des recettes fiscales etc.) et une
mauvaise orientation des dépenses municipales. Toute chose que le Projet devrait, à terme, tenter d'atténuer, voire
juguler.

Enfin, la richesse du patrimoine immobilier, mobilier et immatériel du Mali a nourri l'Histoire et la Chronique sur le
Continent Africain, dans le Monde Arabe comme en Occident et sa protection a fait l'objet de réglementations non
écrites conservées par la tradition. Aussi, s'il est désormais reconnu que le Développement Humain Durable a pour
base les réalités et le vécu culturels d'un milieu, il se trouve que ce patrimoine est souvent menacé de dégradation
avec des conséquences préjudiciables à tout développement humain harmonieux, d'où la nécessité de sa préservation.

Ainsi, sur le plan élévation du niveau des performances des Municipalités, il a été mis à la disposition des
Municipalités du Projet un ensemble de Plans d'Actions résultant des différentes missions d'audit et d'appui technique
effectuées à cet effet. Les recommandations issues des missions d'audit, du fait de la similitude des problèmes
identifiés, peuvent être dupliquées à toutes les Municipalités du Mali (anciennes comme nouvelles, urbaines comme
rurales).

Sur le plan renforcement du fonctionnement et de l'entretien des infrastructures, le Manuel de Procédures élaboré
dans le cadre de l'étude de gestion des équipements marchands prend en charge toute la problématique liée à la
pérennisation desdits équipements.

Sur le plan amélioration de la planification, de la programmation, de la budgétisation, de la gestion financière et
de la génération de revenus, les actions conjuguées avec la MDRI, la DNCT et le PACUM ont permis de doter les
Municipalités d'un ensemble d'outils (Guide des procédures Comptables, Guide Pratique d'Administration Communale,
Programme de Développement Communal et Local, etc.) et de former les Elus et Agents municipaux à leur utilisation
optimum. En outre, chacune des Municipalités du Projet a été dotée au moins d'une unité opérationnelle d'équipements
informatiques comprenant un ordinateur, une photocopieuse et une imprimante et leurs accessoires. Le District de
Bamako (Mairie, BRCTU et CTAC), les Mairies de Kayes, Ségou, Mopti et Gao et l'Association des Municipalités du
Mali (AMM) ont été dotés de véhicules acquis directement ou dans le cadre de la supervision des travaux de voirie et




                                                                 - 42 -

drainage.

Sur le plan amélioration de la gestion administrative des Municipalités, en plus de la création de la Cellule de
Communication et du Centre de Documentation et d'Information du District de Bamako (CODI), un appui a porté sur la
création d'un Centre de Ressources de l'Association des Municipalités du Mali (AMM). Ces deus outils servent
aujourd'hui au citoyen qui le désire à mieux connaître les missions et activités des Communes, urbaines comme
rurales, du Mali grâce à l'outil informatique opérationnel au niveau des dites structures.

Sur le plan amélioration des capacités des structures du Gouvernement, la création de l'Institut Géographique du
Mali (IGM), suite à l'audit technique et organisationnel de la Direction Nationale de la Cartographie et de la Topographie
(DNCT), a permis à l'Etat (Budget Spécial d'Investissement) de doter la structure d'équipements et matériel
informatiques appropriés dans la production, conservation et diffusion de données et produits cartographiques à la
satisfaction des besoins des usagers, notamment la numérisation de la cartographie de toutes les villes du Mali. En
outre, une grande amélioration s'est faite dans la maîtrise de la problématique de la gestion des questions frontalières
suite au rapatriement des archives cartographiques du Mali de la France et d'autres pays. Le programme y afférent a
été réalisé pour un taux de l'ordre de 77%.

L'érection en Direction Nationale de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat (DNUH) de l'ancienne Direction Nationale de l'Urbanisme
et de la Construction (DNUC), suite à son audit technique et organisationnel, a permis de mieux centrer les missions
du Ministère chargé de l'Habitat dans la maîtrise de la problématique liée à l'amélioration du cadre de vie des
populations dans les différents établissements humains, notamment en terme de gestion optimum des espaces et des
ressources. La DNUH et chacune de ses 9 Directions Régionales ont été doté d'équipements informatiques
comprenant un ordinateur, une imprimante et leurs accessoires y compris une table traçante et un photocopieur pour le
niveau central. Le niveau central a également bénéficié de 2 véhicules.

Quant à l'audit informatique et organisationnel de la Direction Administrative et Financière (DAF) du Ministère de
l'Equipement, de l'Aménagement du Territoire, de l'Environnement et de l'Urbanisme, il a permis de doter ladite
Direction d'un Manuel de Procédures qui précise les procédures à appliquer dans le cadre de l'exécution des tâches qui
lui sont affectées à partir d'une organisation appropriée et des principes de gestion régissant ses différentes activités.

La Direction Nationale des Collectivités Territoriales (DNCT), ayant pris le relais de la Mission de Décentralisation et des
Réformes Institutionnelles (MDRI) dans la mise en oeuvre des activités de renforcement des capacités des
Municipalités, a été doté d'équipements informatiques et de 2 véhicules.

Pour le renforcement des capacités des Missions Culturelles de Tombouctou, Bandiagara et Djenné, il a été livré à
chacune des Missions une unité opérationnelle d'équipements informatiques comprenant un ordinateur, un scanner, un
photocopieur et une imprimante et leurs accessoires.

Sur le plan amélioration de la fourniture de services urbains, toutes les villes du Projet ont été dotées d'un
ensemble de voiries (plus de 150 Km de voies bitumées avec éclairage public) et d'équipements marchands (Marchés
et Gares routières) ayant relancé les activités dans tous les secteurs économiques. La réalisation de 15.540
branchements et 59 bornes-fontaines a été faite directement dans le cadre du Projet, ce qui correspond à l'accès à
l'eau potable d'environ 179.000 personnes. D'autres branchements ont pu être réalisés du fait des infrastructures
réalisées, mais il n'est pas possible faute de données suffisantes, de donner le nombre de branchements
supplémentaires imputables au projet.

Pour ce qui est de trouve une réponse à la question fondamentale de savoir "comment alimenter la ville de Bamako en
cas de pollution du fleuve Niger", les 11 forages d'exploration réalisés et équipés avec des débits variant entre 25 et 74
m3/h ne peuvent prétendre alimenter Bamako à partir des eaux souterraines. Aussi, est-il important que des mesures
énergiques soient prises par les autorités, tant sur le plan national que local, pour protéger les eaux du fleuve Niger à
Bamako contre toutes formes de pollutions.

Sur le plan amélioration de l'environnement urbain et des conditions de vie dans les Quartiers les plus pauvres,
en plus de l'alimentation en eau potable et électricité de 7 Quartiers pauvres ou périphériques de Bamako, il a été créé
plus de 200 Km de collecteurs et caniveaux pour le drainage des eaux pluviales. Bamako a été dotée d'une Stratégie
de Gestion des Déchets Solides et Mopti d'un réseau de traitement des eaux usées avec station de traitement.

Sur le plan amélioration du cadre de vie et le bien-être des populations, il est indéniable que la collecte d'eau est
une corvée pour les femmes et ainsi que les jeunes filles dans les localités où l'eau n'est pas disponible. Tel était le cas
pour certaines femmes et filles dans ces Quartiers de Bamako et Mopti­Sévaré. Aussi, l'extension du réseau AEP a
permis de libérer les femmes et les jeunes filles de cette corvée. De même, le temps consacré autrefois à ladite corvée



                                                             - 43 -

est utilisé pour réaliser d'autres activités y compris les activités génératrices de revenus. En outre, le Projet a permis
aux populations cibles d'avoir accès à l'eau potable dont la consommation est recommandée pour la santé et pour
éviter les maladies hydriques telles que le choléra, la diarrhée, etc.

Sur le plan création d'emplois par des travaux à haute intensité de main d'oeuvre, il a été créé plus de 123.196
emplois contribuant ainsi fortement à la réduction de la pauvreté, notamment au niveau des ouvriers peu ou non
qualifiés. Il en est de même de la mise en gérance des Bornes Fontaines.

Sur le plan sauvegarde des cités et monuments classées, Tombouctou, la Cité Mystérieuse, a été dotée d'un Plan
de Revitalisation et de Sauvegarde de la vieille ville et d'un Plan Stratégique d'Assainissement de la ville qui sont des
documents référentiels pour toutes actions de préservation et de valorisation des vestiges culturels que Tombouctou
représente. Le Sanctuaire Naturel de la Falaise de Bandiagara (Pays Dogon) est doté d'une étude d'aménagement et
de préservation d'un ensemble de sites dans le secteur de Songho et de Sangha. Les Mosquées, Mausolées et
Cimetières de Tombouctou, les espaces culturels et touristiques de Songho et de Sangha ont été restaurés, réhabilités
ou aménagés. Il a été créé un réseau d'assainissement des eaux pluviales d'une vingtaine de voies de Djenné. La ville
de Bamako a été dotée d'un complexe culturel constitué par la Bibliothèque Nationale, le Centre National des Archives
et le Centre National de Documentation.

Sur le plan régulation du marché foncier, la production de parcelles viabilisées sur les sites de Baco-Djicoroni et
Sotuba et les études du site de Yirimadio ont fortement participé à la résorption d'une partie des besoins en logements
à Bamako et permis au lancement du Programme de Construction de Logements Sociaux (PROCOLOS) initié par le
Président de la République, S.E. Amadou Toumani TOURE, en direction des ménages à revenus faibles et
intermédiaires.


VIII.EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES DES PARTENAIRES TECHNIQUES ET FINANCIERS


L'équipe de la Banque Mondiale (IDA) a, sur le plan supervision de la mise en oeuvre du Projet, réalisé 26 missions
de supervision de Février 1997 (Séminaire de lancement du Projet du 26 au 27 Février 1997) à Avril 2005 (Préparation
des Rapports d'achèvement du Projet) dont la Revue à mi-parcours du 23 Juillet au 04 Août 2001, soit une moyenne
de 3 missions par an. Cette sollicitude de la Banque Mondiale a permis de juguler un certain nombre de difficultés de
coordination inhérentes, d'une part, à la complexité du projet et, d'autre part, à la multiplicité des acteurs intervenant
dans sa mise en oeuvre.

La Coopération Allemande (KFW), et la Coopération Française (AFD et FAC) ont, à travers des missions de
supervision périodiques, contribué dans le choix des solutions idoines à la résolution des difficultés rencontrées par
AGETIPE-MALI.


IX. ENSEIGNEMENTS TIRES DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET


La mise en oeuvre du Projet s'est faite, d'une part, sur une participation volontariste des représentants des
départements ministériels et structures impliqués dans la gestion urbaine et la réforme administrative de la
décentralisation (Décret N°96-157/P-RM du 31 Mai 1996) et, d'autre part, sur une totale maîtrise d'ouvrage déléguée
des Agences d'Exécution, à savoir AGETIPE-MALI, EDM-Sa et ACI.

Si ce type d'organisation, du fait du démarrage concomitant du Projet et de la réforme administrative de
décentralisation, a permis d'atténuer certaines difficultés dans l'exécution des différents contrats et marchés, il a,
cependant, vite montré ses limites dans la coordination de la réalisation de certaines actions lorsque, malgré elles,
lesdites Agences se sont s'arrogé de prérogatives relevant d'autres compétences. Aussi, la redéfinition d'un montage
institutionnel plus approprié devra être l'une des premières tâches pour les futurs projets urbains.

Quant aux Communes, elles ont été engagées dans les activités du PDUD alors qu'elles étaient dans une situation
financière difficile induite par une structure financière fortement déséquilibrée. De l'analyse des activités menées à
travers la Composante Développement des Capacités, il ressort que malgré les appuis développés en direction des
Municipalités en terme d'études d'outils de gestion et d'assistance technique, les résultats restent encore mitigés :
aucune Municipalité n'a encore développé un cohérent "Programme de pérennisation des investissements" par la mise
en place d'un Budget Entretien des Ouvrages conséquent et d'un Service Technique Municipal pouvant y faire face.
Ceci signifie qu'elles ne se sont pas ajustées. Elles se sont "laissées vivre" et, malgré une augmentation substantielle



                                                             - 44 -

des recettes, elles ont laissé filer le déséquilibre qui entraîne des pertes significatives.

Aussi, au risque de voir tous les acquis à jamais perdus, la réorganisation des Services Municipaux (Administratif,
Financier et Technique) devra être l'une des premières tâches des nouvelles Equipes Municipales élues et installées
suite aux élections de Juin 2004. Les Autorités de tutelle devront en faire leur cheval de bataille pour toute réussite de
la Réforme Administrative de Décentralisation qui entre dans sa phase charnière après une première expérience de
cinq (5) ans venant juste de s'achever.

A cet effet, un renforcement des structures d'appui, en terme de ressources humaines et de moyen matériel et en terme
de flexibilité dans les interventions, devra être développer dans les plus brefs délais afin d'éviter tout rupture dans la
dynamique récemment créée avec l'avènement de la Direction Nationale des Collectivités Territoriales (DNCT). Il
s'agira, alors, d'améliorer, voire rendre plus opérationnelles, les actions déjà entreprises avec l'ancienne Mission de
Décentralisation et des Réformes Institutionnelles (MDRI).

Le PDUD, avec l'exécution de la Composante Infrastructures Urbaines de base, a servi de chantier d'expérimentation,
notamment à travers les différents "Contrats de Ville" conclus avec les Municipalités bénéficiaires du Projet. Le
Contrat de Ville est un outil de gestion référentiel à travers lequel est défini et contractualisé toutes les actions autour
desquelles l'Etat et les Collectivités Territoriales concernées se sont entendus dans le cadre de l'amélioration du cadre
de vie des populations des villes du Projet. Son objectif fondamental a été de responsabiliser la Municipalité signataire
dans le choix et dans le financement d'actions entreprises dans le cadre du Projet y compris le redressement de la
gestion municipale le cas échéant. C'est un acte volontaire de la part de la Commune qui est libre d'en engager ou non.

Son adaptation, voire son institution, à la mise en oeuvre des différents Programmes de Développement des
Collectivités Territoriales serait une solution à court terme de la résolution des questions liées aux capacités humaines
et techniques de la problématique de transfert de compétences. Il reste entendu que les Municipalités devront jouer
pleinement leur rôle et responsabilité de Maître d'Ouvrage quelque soit le niveau de délégation faite à une quelconque
Agence d'Exécution.

La mis en oeuvre du volet culturel a permis de créer un cadre synergique de partenariat, d'une part, entre les
intervenants locaux (Etat, Collectivités décentralisées, Communautés de base, Secteur Privé et ONG) et, d'autre part,
entre ceux-ci et les Partenaires Techniques et Financiers (PTF) que sont la Banque Mondiale (IDA) et l'UNESCO.
Cependant, compte tenu des retards enregistrés dans la mise en oeuvre des différents volets de la Composante, il y a
lieu de redynamiser les rôles et missions dévolus aux acteurs clés en la matière, notamment les Missions Culturelles et
les Commissions Régionales et Locales de Sauvegarde du Patrimoine Culturel. Il s'agira, entre autre, pour tout site
ayant fait l'objet d'un classement, d'élaborer des manuels de mise en oeuvre des actions découlant de ce classement
avec identification des responsables pour toute décision à prendre ou faire exécuter.

Si l'objectif de la Composante alimentation en eau potable était d'améliorer l'approvisionnement en eau potable des
populations, notamment augmenter le taux de desserte en facilitant l'accès à l'eau par la réalisation d'ouvrages de
production et de distribution d'eau et améliorer les performances de EDM-Sa en veillant à assurer son équilibre
financier, en particulier par un ajustement des tarifs, les leçons à tirer de sa mise en oeuvre portent sur deux aspects :
- d'abord, l'existence des revenus des populations et leur disposition à payer pour les services urbains de base ne
doivent pas être considérées comme des données d'entrée, mais doivent faire l'objet d'une analyse préalable afin
d'inclure dans les projets la création de sources de revenus stables, le renforcement des capacités en gestion de biens
de nature publique (cas des fontaines), et éventuellement la prévision d'un certain niveau de subvention;
- ensuite, les performances opérationnelles attendues des opérateurs de services publics, dans des secteurs
fortement capitalistiques ne peuvent être correctement atteintes que dans un cadre institutionnel favorable dans lequel,
les Politiques Sectorielles sont clairement exposées et largement partagées, les Stratégies sont faisables et cohérentes
avec celles des autres secteurs, les rôles et responsabilités sont bien définies et l'appui, notamment financier, des
Partenaires au Développement est formellement affirmé.

Au-delà de ces observations qui ont pour but d'améliorer l'identification et la définition des projets futurs, les
investissements réalisés ont permis, non seulement, de répondre à la demande et constituent, en outre, des bases
solides pour le développement futur du Secteur de l'Eau au Mali.

Si la viabilisation de Baco-Djicoroni Sud et de Sotuba a eu des impacts indéniables sur le plan socio-économique, il est
apparu tout de même quelques "frustrations" sur le traitement de certains aspects sociaux pour lesquels il est retenu,
entre autres, d'envisager des mesures visant à :
- assurer un plus grand accès au foncier viabilisé pour toutes les couches sociales à revenus intermédiaires et
faibles, en réduisant la proportion des parcelles destinées à la vente aux enchères;



                                                               - 45 -

- faire réaliser les équipements collectifs en même temps que la viabilisation.

La prise en compte de ces aspects, en vue d'une solution concertée, devrait impliquer les Collectivités Territoriales
Décentralisées, les autorités traditionnelles et les populations concernées.


X. CONCLUSIONS


Avec l'achèvement du Troisième Projet Urbain du Mali (PUM3) ci-avant dénommé Projet Développement Urbain et
Décentralisation (PDUD), il s'agira dès à présent de procéder à l'élaboration d'une Stratégie de Développement Urbain
du Mali (SDUM) dont la mise en oeuvre devrait permettre la définition, l'identification et l'exécution d'un programme
d'investissements concourant à la croissance économique et à la réduction de la pauvreté urbaine, cadre d'un
Quatrième Projet Urbain du Mali (PUM4).

Les documents stratégiques pouvant concourir à l'élaboration, d'une part, de la Stratégie de Développement Urbain du
Mali (SDUM) et, autre part, du Quatrième Projet Urbain du Mali (PUM4), se déclinent, entre autres, comme suit :
- Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté (CSLP), 29 Mai 2002;
- Déclaration de Politique Sectorielle de Développement Urbain (PSDU), 25 Septembre 1995;
- Stratégie Nationale du Logement (SNL), 10 Octobre 1995;
- Schémas Directeurs d'Urbanisme (SDU) des Chefs-lieux de Cercle et les Fiches de Projets y découlant;
- Programmes de Développement Social, Economique et Culturel des Communes (PDSEC);
- Plans Stratégiques d'Assainissement (PSA) de certaines villes;
- Plans de Développement Economique Locaux (ECOLOC) de Sikasso, Ségou et Mopti, 2001-2002;
- Esquisse du Schéma National et des Schémas Régionaux d'Aménagement du Territoire (ESAT), 1997;
- Stratégie de Gestion des Déchets Solides de Bamako (SGDS-B), 23 Juin 2003.

Cependant, pour une plus grande réussite dans la mise en oeuvre des objectifs qui seront visés, il y a lieu de
n'envisager que des actions structurantes reposant, pour l'essentiel, sur une mise en oeuvre participative à partir d'une
vision partagée de tous les acteurs et une plus grande responsabilité des Municipalités bénéficiaires.

En conclusion, si le PDUD a été un bon catalyseur de l'accroissement des investissements de l'Etat dans le secteur
Urbain, il n'en demeure pas moins que l'Etat devra accroître encore davantage ses efforts en direction des villes avec
des investissements soutenus pour accompagner leurs progrès qui est également celui du pays entier.

Quant aux Collectivités bénéficiaires, indépendamment de la nécessité de poursuivre le processus de renforcement de
leur capacité de gestion, elles devront, non seulement renforcer leur partenariat avec l'Etat pour assurer un niveau
d'investissement élevé nécessaire au progrès économique et au bien être des populations, mais également accroître
leur participation, au moins dans l'entretien desdits investissements.

L'Etat devrait être davantage vigilant et plus constant dans l'encadrement des Communes. Les objectifs assignés,
quels qu'ils soient, devront faire l'objet d'un suivi assidu et des mesures de correction prises de manière énergique.
Cette présence constante sera le seul gage du respect par les Collectivités des engagements souscrits.




                                                              - 46 -

- 47 -

