Document of
The World Bank                 FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2642-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 6, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with
the differences between domestic and international inflation. The exchange
rate and currency equivalents in effect on October 15, 1979, were as follows:
Currency Unit  =  Sol (SI.)
Calendar 1978    October 15, 1979
US$1                             SI. 160           S/. 240
S/. 1                           US$0.0062         US$0.00417
Sl. 1,000        =               US$6.25          US$4.17
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
ARE              -    Agrarian Reform Enterprise
BAP              -    Banco Agrario del Peru
(Peruvian Agricultural Bank)
CENCIRA          -    Centro Nacional de Capacitacion
para Reforma Agraria
(National Training Center for Agrarian Reform)
DEPECHP          -    Direccion Proyecto Especial Chira-Piura
(Chira-Piura Special Project Unit)
ENCI             -    Empresa Nacional de Comercializacion de Insumos
(National Inputs Marketing Enterprise)
EPSA             -    Empresa Publica de Servicios Agropecuarios
(Agricultural Services Enterprise)
ERP              -    Economic Recovery Program
FUNDEAL          -    Cotton Development Foundation
INIA             -    Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agricola
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MAA              -    Ministerio de Agricultura y Alimentacion
(Ministry of Agriculture and Food)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Peru
Loan Amount:                US$56 million
Terms:                      Seventeen years, including four years of grace
at 7.95 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:        The project is the second stage of an irrigation
scheme for the Chira and Piura Valleys. The first
stage assured the availability of water for the
area through the construction of a dam and main
diversion canal. The objectives of the proposed
second stage project are to increase agricultural
production and productivity in the Lower Piura
area and raise the incomes of about 11,800 families
with emphasis on small farmers and cooperative
members. This would be accomplished through
improvement of irrigation facilities, reclamation
of saline soils, protection against floods,
assistance for farm development, including credit,
and provision of technical assistance. The
principal risks associated with the project are
Mi) construction delays because of on-going farming
operations in areas where rehabilitation and
construction of the irrigation and drainage systems
would take place; and (ii) failure to retain
sufficient qualified staff to provide adequate
extension services to small farmers because of low
salaries.
This documont hl  a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfoirmance
of their offici.l dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
------- US$ million -------
a)  Main irrigation and
flood control works                   24.7        40.9        65.6
b)  Secondary and tertiary irrigation
and drainage networks                 22.7        21.2        43.9
c)  On-farm investments                       3.1         4.7         7.8
d)  Maintenance equipment                      --         3.8         3.8
e)  Technical services and
consultants                            2.7         0.9         3.6
Baseline Costs                        53.2        71.5       124.7
Physical contingencies                        7.9        10.6        18.5
Price contingencies                          15.1        20.5        35.6
Total Project Cost                     76.2      102.6       178.8
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
------- US$ million -------
Bank                                     10.0       46.0        56.0
ENERGOPROJEKT 1/                          --         46.4       46.4
Government                               64.3        10.2       74.5
Beneficiaries                             1.9        --          1.9
76.2      102.6       178.8
Estimated Disbursements:
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
--- US$ millions by Fiscal Year  =
Annual                              7.9    13.7    14.9    11.9        7.6
Cumulative                          7.9    21.6    36.5    48.4    56.0
Rate of Return:                         15 percent
Appraisal Report:                       Report No. 2530-PE, dated October 15, 1979
1/   A Yugoslav construction firm



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR THE
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$56 million to help
finance the Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 7.95 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Long-Term Development Issues:
Peru" (Report No. 2204-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 13, 1979. This part is based on the report's findings as well as those
of more recent economic missions to Peru. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Background
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by the
Andes mountains into three distinct regions. The coastal region (the Costa),
constituting about 10 percent of the country's territory, is home for about
46 percent of the population. It consists of a narrow belt of dry plains,
intermittently irrigated valleys and Andean foothills. Modern economic
activity is concentrated in the Costa, particularly in Lima. The Sierra, with
44 percent of the country's population, encompasses the highlands above 2,000
meters which occupy one-fourth of the country. The remaining two-thirds of
the area is occupied by the sparsely populated Selva, vast tropical lowlands
east of the Andes. The rugged topography limits trade between the three
regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of varied minerals
located mainly in the Sierra and the southern coast. Petroleum resources,
particularly in the jungle areas of the North and offshore, are believed to be
substantial but their full extent has not yet been ascertained. Another major
natural resource asset is the large fishing potential in coastal waters,
although the magnitude of this potential is subject to sharp fluctuations.
Agricultural land is limited, and most of the soils suitable for intensive
agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        After three decades (1930-1960) of rapidly falling mortaliLty rates,
the rate of population growth had risen to 2.9 percent p.a. In the early
1960's, birth rates started a gradual fall, mainly caused by the urbanization
process and by improved education. But as death rates continued to fall,
population has continued to grow at about 2.8 percent p.a. Since death rates



-2-
are expected to fall further, population growth is likely to remain at around
2.8 percent p.a. over the next 25 years, unless an effective demographic
policy is adopted. Given the normal lag between the drop in birth rates and
its impact on the growth of working-age population, the labor force is expected
to grow well in excess of 3 percent per year during the next 15 years.
6.        Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying
approximately 80% of Peru's commercial energy requirements. Although Peru's
energy resource base is relatively diverse and there is scope for expanding
the role of hydropower and coal in future electricity generation, petroleum
will still provide the major part of Peru's energy requirements throughout
the rest of this century. After being dependent on imported crude oil for
many years to meet its petroleum needs, domestic oil production increased
almost threefold between 1976 and 1979, enabling Peru to export oil in substan-
tial quantities for the first time since 1958. Despite this encouraging
production trend, domestic consumption is likely to rebound after several
years of stagnation so that Peru may once again become a net importer of petro-
leum in the mid 1980's unless new oil reserves are discovered.
Past Development Policies
7.        Since the military came to power in 1968, the Government has followed
a development strategy directed at achieving economic growth and at narrowing
the sharp differences in wealth and opportunities between population in various
income classes and geographical regions. The Government has tried to correct
class and regional imbalances by expanding the role of the State in the
economy, changing the pattern of asset ownership, reducing foreign ownership
of national resources, orienting industry and agriculture toward producing
essential goods for the domestic market, stimulating the deconcentration of
economic activity out of Lima, and reforming the educational system to make it
more responsive to local economic and social needs. Through nationalization
and creation of new enterprises, the State has taken direct control of over
150 enterprises in key economic sectors, and its share in total capital
formation has risen from less than one-fourth in 1968-70 to about one half in
1974-1978. By imposing complex legislation, the Government has also strictly
controlled the operations of the private sector.
8.        As a result of these actions, the pattern of asset ownership in
the economy has changed drastically. Through nationalization, the share
of assets owned by foreigners fell sharply. A sweeping land reform redistri-
buted 45 percent of the country's best farmlands to workers' cooperatives
benefitting some 25 percent of all rural families. Through other laws,
industrial workers were given shares in the firms which employed them and,
in the mining sector, a share in profits. The Government has also given a
strong autarkic orientation to its agricultural and industrial sector policies
and strengthened the incentives for industries outside of Lima.
9.        The Government's programs have benefitted large numbers of Peruvians,
but they have hardly reached the poorest half of the population which continues
to live in abject poverty. It is estimated, for example, that about three
quarters of rural families, mostly "minifundistas" (those farming less than



-3-
2 ha) and the landless seasonal workers, have not been reached by social
programs. The Government imposed controls on prices of a number of domestic-
ally produced goods and heavily subsidized imported petroleum and foodstuffs.
Most of the subsidized products, however, were more important in the consump-
tion basket of high and middle-income Peruvians than in that ,f the poorest
groups. Moreover, the maintenance of artificially low prices for some
products--such *as meat and cereals--actually hurt the poor who produced these
items, and affected production negatively.
10        In the final account, one of the most significant achievements
of the Government was the promotion of the cultural and political integration
of the country. Owing in great part to the land reform, an important segment
of, the rural population has become better organized and is able to communicate
its priorities in a more forceful and articulate way. Unfortunately, although
many of the policies and structural changes carried out since 1968 were meant
to achieve rapid growth and more equality, the cost of these measures proved
to be excessive and their implementation inefficient.
The Economic Crisis
11.       Until 1977, the military Government followed expansionary fiscal and
credit policies. A rapid increase in spending by the public sector (including
large defense outlays) was not matched by a parallel increase in revenues.
Pricing, interest rate and foreign exchange policies until 1976 encouraged
consumption and discouraged savings, exports and, sometimes, overall production.
As a result of these policies, aggregate demand considerably exceeded aggregate
supply. This excess demand, in turn, led to widening external gaps and to
strong inflationary pressures, with a resulting loss of international reserves
and a massive build-up of external debt.
12.       This imbalance was aggravated by circumstances beyond the control
of the authorities. Anchovies, the fishing industry's principal product,
virtually disappeared as the annual catch dropped from around 10,00C metric
tons in 1968-71 to an average of 2,300 metric tons in 1975-78. Between 1974
and 1978, furthermore, Peru's terms of trade worsened sharply. Export prices,
particularly for copper and sugar (which together accounted for almost one-
fourth of merchandise exports), fell from their very high 1974 levels at a
time when import prices soared. Petroleum reserves, which in the ea,rly 1970's
were predicted to lead to a quick, major expansion in export earnings, took
much longer than expected to come on line.
13.       Public sector savings dropped steadily in relation to GDP from
4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in 1977. A major cause for
this was a massive erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax incentives,
loopholes in the tax system and weak enforcement.  At the same time, there
were rises in the budgetary cost of subsidies for foodstuffs and petroleum
products, and sharp increases in military imports and local expendit:ures.
Much of public investment, furthermore, was increasingly concentrated on
capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods and little immediate
contribution to the growth of output or employment.



- 4 -
14.       Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates on domestic banking system loans, however, remained
substantially negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stim-
ulating capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically
constant between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
National savings fell dramatically from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent
in 1977, when they financed only about one-half of investment. Following
a period of rapid expansion in 1968-74 during which GDP grew by more than 6
percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively and became negative in
1977.
15.       The growing disequilibrium described above was reflected in the
balance of payments. The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per
year in 1974-77, equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this
deficit, Peru accumulated a massive external debt. Peru's total private
and public external debt--including short-term indebtedness--stood at almost
US$8.3 billion by year end 1977, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and four
times exports. Much of this debt was contracted on fairly short maturities
with three-fourths of the public sector's long-term debt--which is estimated
to have totaled US$6.3 billion--scheduled to be repaid over the 1978-82 period.
16.       Beginning in 1975, successive economic teams made several efforts to
cope with the mounting economic crisis. A major stabilization program was
initiated in June 1976, when the sol was devalued from SI. 45 to S/. 65 per
U.S. dollar, fiscal and credit policies were tightened and interest rates were
raised . This program was initially successful in reducing the fiscal deficit
and the loss of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, it was abandoned later in the
year as a consequence of strong popular opposition and a lack of consensus
within the Government regarding the gravity of the financial situation.
Further attempts to stabilize the economy were initiated in March, July and
September 1977 but they were not successful. A stand-by arrangement was
negotiated with the IMF and approved in November 1977, but its targets were
not met. While these efforts proved to be false starts, they succeeded in
somewhat reducing the gap between national savings and investment from a peak
of 11.5 percent of GNP in 1975 to 8.5 percent in 1976 and 7.4 percent in 1977.
17.       By mid-1978 the economic crisis had reached grave proportions.  The
drop in GDP had intensified and inflation had further accelerated to an annual
rate approaching 100 percent. Moreover, the private sector was finding it
increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the
banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level of
US$800 million. It had become clear that the public sector was fast approach-
ing the point where it would no longer be able to fully service its external
debt. Peru was no longer creditworthy. Financial instability had reached the
point where practically all economic activities were adversely affected.
Stabilization Efforts
18.       A new economic team was named in May 1978.  Since then, the Govern-
ment has adopted a number of important measures aimed at strengthening public
finances, stimulating exports and stemming the loss of international reserves.
By means of a crawling peg, the sol was devalued from SI. 130 to the U.S.



- 5 -
dollar in May to almost S/. 200 to the U.S. dollar by year-end 1978; since
then the sol was devalued a further 20 percent. Most subsidies were elimi-
nated, thus closing an important drain on public savings. Other price controls
were relaxed. In addition, a number of tax measures were adopted and Government
expenditures were restrained. Interest rates on bank loans were raised from
16 to 31.5 rorcent per year. Peru reached agreement with foreign corimercial
banks to reschedule US$185 million of principal payments due in the second
half of 1978 until January 1979. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement for SDR 184 million, which was approved by the IMF on September
15. In July 1979, this stand-by was replaced by a new stand-by arrangement
for SDR 285 million, (of which, SDR 232 million will be financed from the
Fund's supplementary financing facility) in support of the same financial
program. Peru's debt outstanding to the IMF as of June 30, 1979 was equivalent
to SDR 439.8 million. Finally, the Government refinanced the bulk of the
public external debt due in 1979 and 1980.
19.       The Government's financial stabilization program, supported by the
stand-by, aims at a dramatic improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings are to rise from - 0.7 percent of GDP in
1978 to 4.0 percent of GDP in 1979. To this end, the Government adopted a
1979 budget that aims at a 10 percent real increase in tax revenues, while
severely holding down current outlays. Payments for wages and salaries are
budgeted to fall by some 12 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a
planned reduction in excessive civil service employment. The elimination of
subsidies on food and petroleum products, initiated in mid-1978, wilL further
contribute to the control of current expenditures. The largest cut Ls for
defense outlays. On the revenue side, measures already adopted--incLuding a
10 percent import surcharge, a higher tax on traditional exports and an
increased tax on interest charged on bank loans--are expected to permit
attainment of the revenue target. On the other hand, real capital eXpenditures
are budgeted to rise by over 20 percent. In short, execution of the program
has been very good, and as of June 30, 1979 central government current savings
exceeded the budgeted savings by 13.3 percent. In spite of this progress,
however, inflationary pressures remain strong, with the consumer price index
rising at an annual rate of 65 percent.
Debt Restructuring
20.       Major debt-relief operations carried out in late 1978 enabled Peru
to reduce substantially the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980, postponing
repayment to the 1982-1986 period. In May 1978, the Soviet Union rescheduled
the equivalent of about US$140 million of maturities originally due in 1978-80.
These amounts are to be repaid over a 10-year period including three years of
grace. In November, at a Paris Club meeting, the OECD countries agreed to
reschedule 90 percent of principal payments due by the public sector to
governments and guaranteed suppliers in 1979 (US$250 million) and 1980 (US$263
million). These amounts are to be repaid over a period of eight years,
including three years of grace. The Paris Club agreement states that 1980
maturities will be rescheduled provided that Peru agrees with the IMF, by
December 31, 1979, on a financial program for 1980. The Paris Club creditors
also agreed to reschedule 90 percent of the principal payments due in 1979 and
1980 (about US$30 million in each year) on private sector debt guaranteed or
insured in the creditor countries. In addition, Peru has negotiated smaller
amounts of debt relief with non-OECD countries.



-6-
21.       As regards the large medium-term public debt to commercial banks,
in keeping with an agreement concluded in December 1978, Peru has been repaying
in 1979, the bulk of the US$185 million rolled over from 1978 (para 17 above).
The banks will refinance 90 percent of the maturities due in 1979 (US$321
million) to be repaid between 1982 and 1986. The agreement reached between
the Government of Peru and the commercial banks also gives the Government
the option of refinancing part of the maturities currently due in 1980.
The government, however, has recently indicated that it intends to forego
the debt relief obtained for 1980, in view of the much improved balance-
of-payments situation (c.f. para 26).
Social Situation
22.       The economic crisis of recent years has been reflected in two conse-
cutive years of negative growth. Total Gross Domestic Income fell by 0.6
percent in 1977 and a further 0.6 percent in 1978. In this two-year period
GDP per capita dropped by over 8 percent. This situation, in turn, has been
reflected in incomes and employment. Nearly one-half of Peru's labor force is
believed to be unemployed or underemployed, i.e., earning less than the
minimum wage or working less than 35 hours a week and wishing to work more.
According to government estimates, the purchasing power of salaries had fallen
40 percent by 1978 compared to 1970 and that of wages by over 16 percent. In
these circumstances, the social situation has been unavoidably tense, and
several general strikes have taken place during the past year.
23.       In July, 1979 the military government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected assembly. The government has called for
elections in May, 1980 and the transfer of authority to a civilian government
is scheduled to take place in July, 1980. At present the authorities are
maintaining an informal dialogue with the leaders of the major political
parties in an effort to ensure the continuity of economic policies following
the political transition.
The Economic Recovery Program
24.       With the financial stabilization program and the debt restructuring
described above, the Government has brought the fiscal and external gaps under
control. These efforts, however, have not yet helped to overcome the deep
economic recession. To this end the Government conceived an Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) which would reverse the decline in GDP and lay a basis for a
financially sound economic recovery. The ERP includes, in addition to
the above-mentioned stabilization actions, measures to open up the economy,
stimulate industrial sector efficiency, promote non-traditional exports,
strengthen the tax system by broadening its base, and generally improve the
efficiency of resource allocation in the private and public sectors.
In this connection, the Government formulated a Public Sector Investment
Program that aims at redirecting public investment towards projects of clear
economic priority and positive effect on production and employment. In
support of this program the Bank approved a US$115 million program loan
in May, 1979. Progress in carrying out the ERP is generally satisfactory
with performance in some critical areas--e.g., export promotion--actually
exceeding expectations.



-7-
25.       The improved economic management since mid-1978 and, in particular,
measures adopted under the ERP, have led to a marked turnaround in balance of
payments performance. The resource gap, which had reached nearly 5 percent of
GDP in 1977, turned into a surplus in 1978 and the drop in net international
reserves of recent years was reversed. This was mainly due t^' a recession-
induced drop in imports and to lower defense purchases. Non-traditional
exports rose as a consequence of the adoption of a more realistic exchange
rate. The capital account, in turn, strengthened owing to the beginning of
debt relief operations and to some repatriation of Peruvian capital.
26.       The Government's program has also led to a strong balance of payments
performance in 1979, which is essential for economic recovery and to restore
net international reserves, still at negative levels. This was achieved by
continuing to maintain an export-oriented foreign exchange policy, rea,listic
interest rates and by the promotion of non-traditional exports. The Peruvian
Government also intends to improve foreign debt management by, inter aLlia,
making greater use of aid from official bilateral and international donors to
the extent possible. Much of Peru's large foreign short-term debt (estimated
at over US$2 billion as of year-end 1978) is expected to be rolled over or
refinanced as the gradually improving economic situation permits new trade-
related credit lines to be opened. The trade balance should be strengthened by
a further sharp drop in military imports in 1979, by favorable world prices
for minerals and by the availability of a large petroleum surplus for export.
The recent completion of the Trans-Andean pipeline should allow Peru to
export an average of nearly 80,000 barrels per day in 1979-82, adding some
US$775 million per year to gross export earnings. Even though about one third
of the projected gross petroleum exports would leave the country as profit
remittances, this still implies a major improvement over recent years, when
Peru was spending in excess of US$200 million per year on fuel imports. On
balance Peru can be expected to enter the 1980s with a strong trade surplus.
27.       In the mid-eighties, if economic activity recovers to an annual
growth rate of about 6 percent, the imports needed for sustaining the develop-
ment effort may exceed somewhat the pace of exports. This is particularly so
because the exportable petroleum surplus may start to decline in 1982 unless
important new discoveries are made soon. In addition, the debt restructured
in 1978-79 will impose a heavy payment burden in 1981-86. It is possible,
therefore, that balance of payments support will once again be needed in
the mid 1980s unless a further debt restructuring operation takes place.
Against this background, there is a need for continuing high levels of official
development assistance including, when possible, some degree of local cost
financing.  Assuming the ERP continues to be carried out and the auth,orities
maintain prudent financial policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
28.       The Bank has made 35 loans in Peru for a total amount of US$676.1
million, net of cancellations. About 36 percent of the Bank's lending to
Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 17 percent for



- 8 -
the May 1979 Program Loan, 16 percent for agriculture, 13 percent for electric
power, 11 percent for mining and industry and about 7 percent for education
and urban development.
29.        Of the US$335 million undisbursed as of September 30, 1979 over
60 percent is attributable to six project loans made since 1976 and an addi-
tional 34 percent to the Program Loan. The slow start-up of the project
loans -- only two of which were "repeater" operations -- as well as the slow
progress of previous operations has been due, in large part, to weak project
execution capacity and to a shortage of counterpart funds that worsened as
the economic situation deteriorated during this period. As a result, disburse-
ments have averaged only about US$25 million per year over the past few years
(Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1979,
and notes on the execution of on-going projects). In an effort to improve
this situation: (i) the Executive Directors have approved modifications in the
Education and the Lima/Amazon Corridor Projects (see Annex II for further
details), (ii) the provision of adequate counterpart funds for 1979 has been
assured, and (iii) the Government has set up a special commission to monitor
loan execution and resolve administrative problems. With these actions and
since start-up problems facing some of the newer projects have now been
largely overcome, the pace of disbursement is expected to increase over the
next year.
30.       Program Loan disbursement has started slowly because of the unfore-
seen increase in foreign exchange available in Peru as a result of booming
exports and continued depressed import levels as well as substantial debt
rescheduling. In order to accelerate disbursements, the list of eligible
imports has been expanded to include additional high priority industrial
inputs and the Central Bank has taken measures to induce commercial banks
to make greater use of Program Loan resources. As a result, the Central Bank
has begun to commit these funds. As of October 23, US$6.2 million had been
disbursed and several applications were pending.
31.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
in (a) the creation of the physical and social infrastructure needed to
sustain and foster development; (b) the expansion of productive capacity
in crucial sectors; (c) the consolidation of structural and institutional
changes, particularly land and education reforms; and (d) the strengthening
of agencies to implement and operate projects effectively. In the past,
Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power
sectors. More recently, in the face of mounting economic difficulties, the
Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields -- mining,
agriculture and industry -- to aid Peru in surmounting its balance of payments
problems.
32.        The next operations that would be ready for Bank consideration
are a small rural development project to increase agricultural and livestock
production of agrarian reform settlements in the Sierra and a project to
increase production at the Talara and jungle oil fields of the National
Petroleum Company (PETROPERU). Preparation has begun on a sixth agricultural
credit project and a mining operation, and a highway maintenance project is
planned.



- 9 -
33.       Bank loans constituted about 6.5 percent of Peru's total outstanding
debt, including undisbursed, at the end of 1978, and absorbed about 3.6 percent
of the country's external debt service in 1978. Assuming increased recourse
to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the
country's outstanding public foreign debt by 1985 could reach 12 percent and
its share of *ebt-service would be around 5.5 percent.
34.       IFC commitments to date have been US$26.5 million (US$15 million
to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone Copper Mining Project)
of which US$14.8 million is held by the Corporation. A summary statement
of IFC investments as of September 30, 1979 is presented in Annex II.
35.       The other principal aid agencies lending to Peru -- IDB and USAID --
are expected to continue giving special attention to agriculture with IDB
emphasizing agricultural credit and AID stressing rural development. Total
loan commitments as of April 30, 1979 by IDB and USAID were US$476.1 million
and US$169.9 million, respectively, and their respective shares of debt service
as of end-1978 were 1.0 percent and 0.5 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Land and Water Resources
36.       Peru has a limited natural resource base for agriculture.  Of the
country's total land area of 1,285,000 km2, only about 2.9 percent is cultivable
and another 17 percent is natural pastureland. Substantial additionaL land
could be brought into production but only at a high cost either for expensive
new coastal irrigation schemes or by providing basic infrastructure for more
remote areas, mainly in the Amazon region east of the Andes.
37.       Of the country's three principal regions the 130,000 km2 Costa,
which consists mainly of desert terrain, is the major agricultural area.
This region accounts for about 10 percent of the total land area and 46
percent of the country's population. Agriculture in the Costa is limited to
river valleys where irrigation is possible. Most of Peru's one million
irrigated hectares are located in the zone. Where water is available, condi-
tions are generally favorable for high crop production because of good soils
and near optimal solar radiation and temperatures. The region enjoys; rela-
tively close proximity to the urban markets, a good transportation nettwork and
other infrastructure. It is relatively prosperous, producing over 4CI percent
of the country's crops including sugar, rice, cotton, maize, potatoes, citrus
crops, olives and grapes.
38.       The Sierra, where 44 percent of the population lives, consists of
steep mountains, and high valleys. Of the zone's 332,000 km2 about seven
percent are farmed and 52 percent are used for grazing. Because of the rugged
topography and severe climate, productivity is low and there is little scope
for putting new land into production. There is a potential, however, for
increased livestock production through the introduction of improved pastures
and modern range management.



- 10 -
39.       The Selva region east of the Andes accounts for 64 percent of the
total land area but only 10 percent of the country's population. There is
abundant water, since Peru's major river systems flow through the area and
rainfall is high, but soils are generally poor, particularly in the lower
Selva. In an area known as the Ceja de Selva (the foothills between the
Andes and the lower Selva), soils are of better quality and agricultural
and livestock development has begun. It has been hampered, however, by poor
transport and other infrastructure. The Government has begun to give priority
to development projects in this area since it offers one of the few prospects
for expanding the agricultural frontier.
Agriculture in the Economy
40.       In 1978, agriculture contributed about 13 percent to Peru's GDP
but it employed more than 42 percent of the labor force and accounted for
about 18 percent of total merchandise exports. From the mid-1960s to the
mid-1970s, investment in agriculture was low mainly because of uncertainty
and rural unrest during a period when a major agrarian reform was proposed and
undertaken. Government price, production and marketing control systems also
tended to discourage investment and production by setting urban oriented
prices for foodstuffs and imposing production limits on non-food crops. As
a result, the value of food production in constant prices increased by an
average of only 1 percent per annum during this period. During the same
period, population increased by an average of 2.9 percent per annum. Conse-
quently, the country's dependence on imported foodstuffs grew substantially,
mainly in dairy products, legumes, vegetable oils and grains such as wheat and
maize. At the same time, the volume of agricultural exports -- which consist
primarily of coffee, cotton and sugar -- declined and by 1975/76 was only
about 60 percent of its 1962/63 level. A principal cause was the sharp
contraction in cotton production because of erratic prices and government
policies emphasizing food production. Also, sugar exports were curtailed by
rapidly increasing domestic consumption. In spite of these trends, Peru
continued to maintain a positive though shrinking balance of trade in agri-
culture through the mid-70s. In 1977/78, this positive balance grew as food
imports were reduced because of the country's balance of payments problems and
the value of exports grew, primarily because of the increase in coffee prices.
41.       The Government has recognized that improvement of the agricultural
sector's performance is critical to the country's economic progress and to the
well-being of the rural population. It has, therefore, recently taken steps
to stimulate production and increase producers' incomes. In 1978, producer
prices were substantially increased, restrictions on production were relaxed
and consumer subsidies on food products were discontinued. It is still
too early to estimate the impact of these policy changes on agricultural
production. There are indications, however, that it has been positive. For
example, the 1979/80 cotton crops is projected to increase by 20 percent over
the previous year's level.
Agrarian Reform
42.       In June 1969, the Government approved a land reform law aimed at
expropriation by the end of 1977 of 14,500 estates covering 10.3 million ha.



- 11 -
By the end of 1978 the agrarian reform was substantially completed but had
benefitted only about 25 percent of the country's 1.8 million rural families.
43.       Rather than dividing them up among individual farmers, the agrarian
reform left intact the large cotton and sugar estates in the Costa and cattle
and sheep ranches in the Sierra. These former estates are now run on a
commercial basis under various forms of cooperative association. By and large,
these agrarian reform enterprises (AREs) work fairly well in situations where
large production units already existed and where the workers were acquainted
with the technologies used. Production has been maintained, in most cases,
although it has not increased substantially, and the incomes of agrarian
reform beneficiaries have improved somewhat.
44.       Effective management is a problem for many of these enterprises,
since a large number of technicians and administrators previously working on
the private estates left and were replaced by less qualified staff. Also,
cooperative members, all of whom receive wages, have tended to press for
pay increases and additional fringe benefits which in some cases have caused
financial problems and limited the investment capacity of the enterprise.
To deal with these problems the Government has conditioned the granting of
credit to enterprises on the hiring of qualified professional managers. With
this measure the enterprises' management and financial situations are slowly
improving.
45.       Altogether, about 75 percent of the rural population -- mostly
landless workers and farmers with less than 2 ha -- were left untouched by the
agrarian reform. In a sense, these groups are now worse off than before: for
the landless workers, employment opportunities on the large cooperative farms
have now become more scarce, and Government has channelled its agricultural
support services almost exclusively to the agrarian reform enterprises.
Adequate services and credit for small farmers would be provided under the
project recommended in this Report.
Institutional Framework
46.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAA) is generally responsible
for formulating and carrying out Government agriculture sector policies and
activities. These include the agrarian reform, providing extension services,
research and the execution and operation of agricultural projects. Operations
at the field level are carried out by 13 regional offices which are subdivided
into zone offices.
47.       Generally, the MAA at both the central and regional levels has
suffered from budgetary limitations and administrative red tape. Because of
low salaries, the MAA has also had difficulty in retaining qualified personnel,
thus limiting its coverage and effectiveness. Compounding the situation, a
considerable number of qualified technicians have left the country because of
the economic difficulties Peru has experienced. In an effort to strengthen the
MAA, the Government has recently raised salaries somewhat to attract qualified
and experienced technicians to key managerial positions.



- 12 -
48.       To help overcome the administrative problems facing regional offices,
the Ministry has set up a number of special project units, reporting directly
to the Vice Minister, with broad authority to implement large projects or
programs. Among these are the Chira-Piura Special Project Unit (DEPECHP) which
manages the construction and operation of the Chira-Piura irrigation scheme.
Other departments and government agencies under MAA are: the National Training
Center for Agrarian Reform (CENCIRA); the Agricultural Services Enterprise (EPSA)
which markets basic agricultural products; the National Marketing Enterprise
(ENCI) which supplies agricultural inputs and markets cotton; and the National
Agricultural Research Institute (INIA).
49.       The Peruvian Agricultural Bank (BAP), a Government-owned institution,
provides 85 percent of agricultural credit in Peru, with the balance coming
from other banks. About 90 percent of BAP's annual lending consists of
short-term production credit, mainly to agrarian reform enterprises. BAP
long-term lending has generally been financed by Bank or IDB loans. BAP has
executed five Bank-financed agriculture credit loans and acted as banking
agent for the on-farm development credit component of the 1977 First Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1403-PE). BAP's lending operations have grown in
recent years owing to rising demand from agrarian reform enterprises and declin-
ing participation of private banks. The volume of long-term development credit,
however, has increased to a lesser degree because of BAP's lack of resources
and the reluctance of individual farmers to invest. Although a high level of
arrears has been a problem, BAP's situation has been improving recently as
AREs have become better established.
Irrigation
50.       Prior to the land reform in the late sixties, the construction and
maintenance of Peru's irrigation and drainage infrastructure was undertaken
mainly by private farmers. Maintenance was not adequate and systems were
developed on a piecemeal basis because large-scale investment and management
on a regional basis were beyond the capacity of the private sector. As a
result, many irrigation systems had deteriorated or were too inefficient to
adequately manage water resources.
51.       Under the General Water Law of 1969, all water became the property
of the state. The Directorate of Water and Soils of the MAA is now responsible
for the management of water resources, which it allocates in consultation with
the farmers' water user associations. The Government, through the MAA, has
undertaken the rehabilitation of existing systems and development of new small
and large scale irrigation projects. Among the larger projects is the Chira-
Piura scheme, whose second phase the loan recommended in this Report would
help finance. The Government has also begun addressing the growing problem
of waterlogged soils and salinization resulting from the lack of drainage
facilities. About 250,000 ha of irrigated lands are now affected to varying
degrees by these problems and the affected area is expanding. The land,
however, can be reclaimed by leaching and construction of proper drainage.
A reclamation program initiated under the First Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (Ln. 1403-PE of May 1977) aims at the rehabilitation of some 19,000 ha
in six coastal valleys. The project is in the early stage of implementation;
the first year was devoted mainly to establishing the executing agency and
preparing final engineering designs.



- 13 -
52.       Under the General Water Law, farmers would -- in accordance with
their financial capacity -- pay water charges to cover full operation and
maintenance, plus a reasonable amount of the investment costs of the worKs.
The General Directorate of Water and Soils is responsible for establishing
water rates and reviewing them annually. Also, some maintenance is carried
out by the water users' associations which are authorized to impose charges
to pay for the work. Until recently, water charges imposed by the Government
were nominal, effective collection of these was low and receipts did not
cover 0 & M costs. Moreover, the monies that were collected went to the
national treasurer and not to the irrigation districts where farmers could
see a return for the fees they paid. This situation is beginning to improve
(see para. 81).
Sectoral Development Strategy
53.       The Government's sectoral development strategy as reflect:ed in its
1978-1982 Medium Term Public Investment Program is (i) to continue develop-
ment and rehabilitation of irrigated coastal areas where the potential for
increases in production is great and large investments in irrigation infrastruc-
ture have already been made; (ii) to begin to develop the potentia:Lly rich
Ceja de Sierra, east of the Andes; and (iii) to increase development of
smaller scale irrigation projects. The Government is also interested in
increasing the flow of agricultural credit and strengthening its now weak
extension service to provide better support to both small farmers and agrarian
reform settlements. Finally, an effort is being made to assist the rural
poor, particularly in the Sierra through rural development projects. In
support of this objective, the Bank has appraised a small project in the
southern Sierra region near Puno. The experience gained in its execution
should provide the basis for future projects of this type.
Bank Lending
54.       In order to help spur Peru's agricultural development, the Bank has
made 10 loans to Peru totalling US$107.5 million. Five of them, in the period
1954-1973 and totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit and
were channelled through BAP (105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and 933-PE). In
general, BAP performance has been good; disbursement of the last loan (933-PE)
has been completed and preparation of a sixth loan is underway. Twro loans
(67-PE and 98-PE), totalling US$3 million, were for farm machinery imports.
Another two (Loans 114-PE of 1955 and 418-PE of 1965), totalling US$24.5
million, financed irrigation works and land settlement in the San Lorenzo area
within the Chira-Piura basins. The first irrigation rehabilitation project,
Loan 1403-PE for US$25 million, was referred to in paragraph 51.
55.       Loan 418-PE is the only one of the Bank's Peru agriculture sector
operations which has been subject to a Performance Audit (SECM-48 of January 18,
1978). The San Lorenzo project, which Loan 418-PE helped finance, represented
a pioneering effort at agricultural development for the Bank. The project was
delayed and the loan took eleven years to disburse, primarily because of
managerial problems, inadequate counterpart financing and incorrect estimates
of water availability. Peru and the Bank learned some valuable lessons from
the project, which have been taken into account in the design of the Lower



- 14 -
Piura Project. These includes the need to (i) have and finance well-designed
agricultural support programs including extension and research; (ii) make
adequate provision for maintenance of the works; and (iii) have a strong, well
established project management unit. In spite of the problems associated with
the San Lorenzo project, the Project Performance Audit Report concluded that
it achieved its basic goals of increasing agricultural production and the
incomes of the rural poor.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
56.       The project would be the second phase of a plan to improve water
availability and rehabilitate the irrigation systems of the Chira and Piura
Valleys (see IBRD Map 14158). The first phase, prepared by consultants
financed partially by the Bank, was completed in 1978. Feasibility studies
for the second phase were prepared by the Chira-Piura Consultants' Association,
a local consortium, with the assistance of the FAO-IBRD Cooperative Program.
Bank missions visited Peru to appraise the project in November 1978 and
February 1979. The Appraisal Report (2539-PE dated October 15, 1979) entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report of the Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project,"
is being distributed separately. Supplementary data are contained in Annex
III. Negotiations took place in Washington from September 5 through 11 and
the Peruvian Delegation was headed by Mr. German Rodriguez, Director of
DEPECHP.
The Project Area
57.       The lower Piura Valley project area is situated near the coast about
1,000 km north of Lima on the Chira-Piura plains, which cover about 167,000 ha
of potentially arable land, some 137,000 ha of which are presently under irri-
gation with surface and groundwater. The Chira and Piura Rivers are the main
surface water sources; however, without regulation water is unevenly distributed
and its availability is erratic. Previous works constructed in the 1950s and
1960s, partially with Bank financing (Loans 114-PE and 118-PE), increased the
areas under irrigation and alleviated water shortages in the middle and lower
Piura Valleys, but did not solve the problem entirely. The next stage was
construction of the Poechos dam and reservoir and of the Chira-Piura diversion
canal by the Yugoslavian firm, ENERGOPROJEKT, which also arranged financing.
This ensured a permanent water supply from the regulated Chira River to the
middle and lower Piura Valley.
58.       The Chira and Piura Rivers have their headwaters in Ecuadorian
territory and the operation of the Poechos dam is in accordance with a 1971
agreement between Ecuador and Peru. Water in the reservoir is now maintained
at a level that does not cause flooding in Ecuadorian territory and the
operation of the proposed project will not require any increase in the water
level.
59.       The lower Piura Valley, with 34,720 net irrigable ha, extends south-
ward from the city of Piura. The Pan-American Highway connects it with
Lima, the rest of the country and Ecuador. The Valley has a desert climate
with low and erratic rainfall. Soils in the valley are generally good and
the topography is flat except for some scattered dunes.



- 15 -
60.       The riverbed of the Piura River, which runs through the ValLey,
is slightly higher than the surrounding terrain and does not have an open
outlet to the sea. There is occasional flooding, drainage is deficient and
percolation of irrigation water has led to high groundwater levels. The
combination of deficient drainage, low rainfall, high evapoi.Aon and a
shortage of irrigation water in the past has resulted in salt accumulation
over the entire project area. About 7,300 ha are highly salinized and out of
production. The remaining 27,400 ha are affected by salinity. With water now
available from the Poechos reservoir, the soils can be reclaimed by leaching
if better drainage is provided.
61.       Two main collector drains and a network of secondary open drains
were constructed as part of the first phase of the Chira-Piura project. The
drains are capable of evacuating all percolated water from irrigation but
require a network of field drains to feed them. Maintenance of the drains has
so far been inadequate and their water carrying capacity is being redLuced by
aquatic vegetation and sand from moving dunes.
62.       The lower Piura Valley has several independent irrigation subsystems
constructed early in this century by former landowners. The system is anti-
quated and in poor operating condition because of inadequate maintenance. Water
flow is slow, making timely irrigation impossible. Also, water head is often
insufficient to irrigate by gravity and pumping from the canals is therefore
necessary. Low conveyance efficiencies cause serious water losses, further
raising already high groundwater levels.
63.       Of the 34,720 ha of net cultivable land in the project area, about
27,400 ha are now under cultivation with a cropping intensity of 106 percent.
Long staple, high quality Pima cotton is the major crop, covering 21,000 ha;
grains (corn, sorghum and some rice) occupy about 3,300 ha, and pasture and
subsistence crops cover 4,700 ha. Because of the poor condition of irrigation
infrastructure and inadequate technical assistance, average yields per ha are
relatively low. Livestock consists of some 3,600 dairy cows, about 50% of
which belong to small farmers, and a large goat population belonging to small
farmers and landless peasants.
64.       The project area has about 11,800 farm families.  It includes 12
AREs on former estates with 17,500 ha (about half of the project areta) and 2,800
member families. Members of the AREs are permanently employed and the average
annual per capita income of its members is about US$250. The enterprises
have professional management and are generally well run. Existing Government
extension services and credit programs are mainly directed toward them. Their
financial situation is sound and none had any debts in arrears with BAP at the
end of 1978.
65.       There are about 8,900 small farmers (those with plots of under 5 ha)
occupying 45 percent of the project area. The average farm size is under 2 ha
and annual per capita income of this group is about US$180. Of this, however,
about US$100 is provided by off-farm employment. Because existing sources of
agricultural employment can only absorb about 50 percent of the labor offered
by small farmers, seasonal unemployment is a problem. Small farmers have
little access to agricultural services and credit and their production tech-
niques are poor, problems the proposed project has been designed to deal with.



- 16 -
66.       About 110 families have medium-sized farms (80 between 5-15 ha and
30 between 15-5 ha). They tend to have access to credit and to be relatively
efficient farmers. Their average annual per capita income is about US$630.
All farms over 50 ha were expropriated under the agrarian reform.
Agricultural Services
67.       The Government provides extension services in the project area
through the MAA, the Cotton Development Foundation (FUNDEAL) and CENCIRA,
which provides audio visual programs. Existing services are not well coordi-
nated or staffed and, as noted, reach only a limited number of farmers.
Research activities are undertaken by a number of entities (e.g., DEPECHP,
the Regional Center for Agricultural Research and FUNDEAL). In general,
production oriented research is weak, as is the link between research and
extension. BAP provides 95 percent of the agricultural credit in the area;
96 percent is short term credit, mainly for cotton. Cooperatives receive 80
percent of the credit, medium-size farms 15 percent, and small farms 5 percent.
With moderate expansion of their working shifts, the marketing agencies (ENCI
and EPSA) would be capable of handling expected incremental production generated
by the project.
Project Objectives and Description
68.       The objectives of the proposed project are to increase agricultural
production and productivity in the project area and raise the incomes of about
11,800 families with emphasis on small farmers and cooperative members. This
would be accomplished through improvement of irrigation facilities, reclama-
tion of saline soils, protection against floods, assistance for farm develop-
ment, including credit, and provision of technical assistance.
69.       The project would consist of:
(a) irrigation works, including (i) construction of a diversion dam
on the Piura River; (ii) construction and lining of a main irriga-
tion canal 40 km long; (iii) rehabilitation and lining of about
190 km of secondary and tertiary canals and rehabilitation of about
1,170 km o5 lateral and sublateral canals; and (iv) construction
of 2,900 m of administrative buildings for the irrigation
district;
(b) drainage works, including construction of 15 km of main drains,
415 km of collector drains and about 1,000 km of field drains;
(c) flood protection works, including improvement of existing flood
protection dikes, construction of 54 km of new dikes along both
banks of the Piura River, and realignment of some stretches of
the river;
(d) development credit for land leveling, soil leaching and improve-
ment, irrigation ditches and other on-farm investments;
(e) maintenance and office equipment, vehicles for the land reclamation
and extension services, and a soils and water analysis laboratory;



- 17 -
(f) technical services, including (i) expansion and strengthening of
the agricultural extension and research services, with special
emphasis on assistance to small farmers; (ii) establishment of a
land reclamation service; and (iii) training of Peruvian technicians
abroad; and
(g)  consultant services to (i) assist the project execution authority
in project design and construction and provision of technical
services; and (ii) carry out feasibility studies for subsequent
rehabilitation projects.
70.       Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Works.  The diversion dam
and main irrigation canal would be constructed to replace the Piura River as a
water carrier, thus eliminating the problems mentioned in para. 60. Ninety
percent of secondary and tertiary canals would be reconstructed, lined and
elevated to provide sufficient water head. Unlined lateral and sublateral
canals would be rehabilitated or constructed on about 50 percent of the AREs'
land and in practically the entire small farmer area. The basic drainage
network and flood protection dikes for the project area would be completed.
71.       On-farm Investments - Development Credit.  Land leveling and construc-
tion of irrigation ditches would be carried out on most small farms (15,600 ha)
and on about 5,300 ha of land held by medium-size farmers and AREs. Soils
would be leached in the entire project area and gypsum would be applied to some
1,000 ha of alkali soils. Other investments would include farm improvements
and, for selected small farmers, dairy livestock. Up to 90 percent of the
cost of on-farm investments would be financed under the project through long-
term development credit channelled through BAP.
72.       Technical Services.  Agricultural extension activities would be
undertaken by DEPECHP in coordination with the MAA zone office. Five! adequa-
tely staffed offices, each serving about 2,000 farmers, would be estaLblished
in the project area. In addition, service to the 12 AREs would be provided
by four experienced specialists. CENCIRA, under an agreement with DEPECHP,
would establish a program to train project extension agents. This agreement
would be signed within six months of loan signature and the Government would
adequately fund CENCIRA to implement the program (Section 3.05 (a)(i) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
73.       INIA, under an agreement with DEPECHP, would increase its applied
research in the Chira research station with the assistance of consultants
financed under the project. INIA would develop and improve production tech-
nical packages for the several project crops and undertake irrigation and
drainage research. The extension service would test on a commercial scale the
technological packages developed by INIA and disseminate them to farmers. An
agreement between DEPECHP and INIA would be signed within six months of loan
signature and the Government would adequately fund INIA to implement this
program (Section 3.05 (a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
74.       The land reclamation service of DEPECHP to be established under
the project would: (a) monitor the effect of drainage on the water table;
(b) design and construct field drains; and (c) design and supervise construc-
tion of on-farm development works. The service would be staffed by Peruvian
technicians assisted by consultants in irrigation, drainage and land reclama-
tion.
75.       Consulting Services.  The project would include 75 man months of
consultants' services at an expected average cost of US$8,000 per month for
the following:
(a) assistance in the design and construction of field drains and
in the preparation of a plan for monitoring the drainage system;
(b) development of a plan for optimal use of Chira-Piura water;
(c) development of a plan for the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation and drainage systems; and
(d) assistance in expanding the extension service and developing
crop production packages.
76.       In addition, consulting services would be provided to prepare
the final design of Bank financed works, to supervise construction of all
project works and to prepare a possible future irrigation rehabilitation
project in the Chira-Piura area. Terms of reference for this study, satis-
factory to the Bank would be prepared by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.10 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The consultants and the terms and conditions of
their employment would be acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
77.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$178.8 million
(including a tax of US$1.4 million on civil works) of which US$102.6 million
or 58 percent are foreign costs. The proposed Bank loan of US$56.0 million
would cover 31 percent of total project cost.  ENERGOPROJEKT.', which will
construct the main infrastructure works, has arranged paralled financing of
US$46.4 million (equivalent to 26 percent of total project cost). Together
the Bank and ENERGOPROJEKT would, therefore, almost cover the project's
foreign exchange cost. The Government and ENERGOPROJEKT have signed the
financing agreement and completed negotiation of the construction contract.
Execution of the construction contract will be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
78.       The ENERGOPROJEKT parallel financing would cover 50 percent of the
estimated US$92.8 million cost of the diversion dam, the main irrigation canal
and the flood protection works (items a(i), (ii) and c of para. 69 above),
representing about 81 percent of their foreign exchange cost. The Government
would provide the balance of the financing for these components. The Bank
loan would help finance the remaining project components with an estimated



- 19 -
cost of US$86.0 million and would cover these components' full foreign exchange
cost (US$46 million) as well as US$10 million in local costs. (See para 27
regarding the need for local cost financing). The Government would contribute
US$74.5 million (42 percent of project costs) and beneficiaries US$1.9 million
(1 percent of project costs).
Project Execution
79.       MAA would carry out the project through DEPECHP, an agency of MAA
with headquarters in Piura. DEPECHP would, with the assistance of consul-
tants, design and supervise construction of the civil works to be financed
with the proposed Bank loan and would itself carry out all force account
works. Final design and construction of the main infrastructure works
would be carried out by ENERGOPROJEKT under the supervision of DEPECHP.
In order to better coordinate project activities DEPECHP would take over
responsibility for agricultural extension, land reclamation and maintenance
of the irrigation and drainage facilities in the project area from the MAA.
It has been agreed that MAA would transfer these activities to DEPECHP (Section
4.04(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). The MAA's irrigation district: office
would continue to operate the irrigation and drainage systems and would be
provided by the Government with all funds and other support necessary for
this (Section 4.04(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
80.       Since adequate maintenance of the drainage network is critical to
ensure the success of the soils reclamation and to increase production,
it has been agreed that DEPECHP, assisted by consultants, would prepare
and put into execution a maintenance plan for the irrigation and drainage
networks acceptable to the Bank not later than June 30, 1980 (Section 3.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
81.       The MAA is responsible for the collection of water charges.  Although
the water law states that beneficiaries should pay the full cost of operation
and maintenance of the irrigation works and a reasonable proportion of the
investments, in the past only nominal O&M charges were actually imposed and
there were no cost recovery charges.  This situation has now changed.  The
MAA is beginning to enforce the law and to return the proceeds of )&M charges
to the irrigation districts. In keeping with this policy, the Government
would: (a) increase O&M water charges in the project area to cover 100
percent of O&M costs of the facilities to be rehabilitated or constructed
under the project; (b) by December 31, 1983 and thereafter, transfer sufficient
funds to the irrigation district from the water charges collected ito cover all
O&M costs of the irrigation and drainage systems in the district; and (c) re-
cover, over a 50 year period, as much as possible of the investment costs in
accordance with farmers' payment capacity (Sections 4.06 (a) and (c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Starting by December 31, 1982 and at least once every
two years thereafter, the Government would review the level and structure of
water charges and adjust them to take account of inflation and the ability
of users' to pay (Section 4.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
82.        Cost recovery estimates are based on the a-sumptions that (a) small
farmers would not repay any capital costs because, even with the project,
their incomes at full development would be below the estimated US$2,790 relative
poverty level per family at that time; and (b) that AREs and medium-size farmers
would repay investment costs over a 50-year period withcut interest, T'>-ich world
bring the total level of charges for these farm categories to about 10 percent
of their net value of production. Based on these assumptions, the average cost
recovery index for the project would be 48 percent.
On-Lending Arrangements
83.        On-farm investments to be carried out under the project would
be financed by medium- and long-term subloans to farmers and AREs. The
Government would transfer loan funds to BAP as an equity contribution.  BAP
would grant subloans in soles on the basis of development plans prepared with
the assistance of DEPECHP for up to 90 percent of the value of the investment,
with the balance contributed by the beneficiaries. The subloans would have
terms of up to 15 years including grace periods of up to five years, depending
on the time required to attain full production increases from the investment.
BAP, with its own resources, would also provide incremental short-term produc-
tion credit to all project beneficiaries (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The Borrower would enter into an agreement with BAP, acceptable to the
Bank, for the provision of subloans on the terms and conditions set out in
this paragraph. The signing of this agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Sections 3.02(a) and 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
84.        The minimum interest rate on subloans would be the same as BAP
currently charges for investment credit -- 31 percent plus a 2 percent com-
mission charge. While this lending rate is at present negative in real terms,
if the Government's economic recovery program is successful in reducing
inflation, it is likely to become positive during project implementation.
Inflation was about 75 percent in CY1978. It is projected to average 60
percent for 1979, and to drop to about 40 percent in 1980. The Government
would periodically review the lending rate in consultation with the Bank to
take account of relevant changes in the rate of inflation and capital market
conditions (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
85.        Contracts for construction of secondary and tertiary lined canals
and main complementary drains, totalling US$40.4 million, would be let through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Maintenance equipment, totalling US$4.7 million, would also be procured under
ICB. For bid evaluation, a 15 percent margin of preference or the prevailing
custom duties, if lower, would be allowed for equipment produced in Peru.
ENERGOPROJEKT would construct the works it helps finance.
86.        Contracts for construction of unlined canals and buildings, totalling
US$6.7 million, would be let in accordance with local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local bidding is recommended
in this case because lateral and sublateral canals would be constructed using



- 21 -
labor-intensive methods. Local firms have experience in such operations and
international firms are unlikely to be interested. Because they are locally
produced, pipes for field drains totalling US$3.3 million, would be procured
through LCB. Construction of field drains (excluding supply of pipes),
totalling US$3.4 million, would be carried out at irregular intervaLs as
the project advances and would therefore be undertaken by force account or
negotiated contracts. On-farm works financed through development credit and
totalling US$11.4 million would be done under negotiated contracts between
farmers and local contractors. Vehicles and other equipment, totallLng
US$600,000, would be purchased in small amounts during project execution
and would, therefore, be procured under LCB (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
87.       In accordance with the financing arrangements described in paragraphs
77 and 78, disbursements against those components the proposed Bank loan would
help finance would be made over a five year period and would cover: (i) 65
percent of expenditures for civil works, engineering and supervision; (ii) 70
percent of subloans for on-farm investments; (iii) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for internationally procured goods or 80 percent of expenditures
for locally procured goods; (iv) 65 percent of the expenditures for incremental
staff and operating expenses of the land reclamation and agricultural extension
services; and (v) 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services and
overseas training (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits
88.       The project would significantly increase agricultural production.
With improved irrigation practices, better drainage and salinity control,
the physical area under cultivation is expected to increase from 27,470 ha to
34,720 ha and cropping intensities from 106 percent to 135 percent. Projected
yields are expected to rise 50 to 120 percent above those without the project.
Cotton will continue as the major crop and incremental production would, at
full development, generate export earnings of about US$16.7 million per annum
and export taxes of US$3.7 million per year. Principally as a result of double
cropping, production of grains and legumes would also increase substantially
and would reduce imports of these by about US$7.0 million per year.
89.       The incomes of the 11,800 project area families would be substan-
tially increased by the project through improved production and the creation
of about 3,800 man-years of labor (about half the excess labor now existing in
the project area) at full development. Small farmer incomes would rise by
about 75 percent, cooperative member incomes by 135 percent and for the 110
medium sized farm families incomes would rise by 240 percent over what they
would be without the project. In addition to the direct improvement in income,
the project would assist small farmers by providing access to agricultural
services and credit for the first time. It would contribute significantly to
the consolidation of the agrarian reform process by improving production and
productivity on th# AREs in the project area. Of total project costs, 45 percent
would be expended for the benefit of small farmers, 50 percent for AREs and
5 percent for medium sized farmers.



- 22 -
90.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 15 percent
with shadow prices for labor and foreign exchange. Sensitivity analysis
indicates that the project would still produce an ERR of 12 percent (the esti-
mated opportunity cost of capital in Peru) with either benefits reduced by
17 percent, the capital cost increased by 23 percent or operating costs
increased by 156 percent.
Project Risks
91.       The project does not present major risks.  DEPECHP has good expe-
rience in constructing works of the type included in the project. Farmers
have substantial experience in growing the project crops and are open to
advice from extension workers. The AREs have passed the critical stage of
establishment and organization, and their recent performance is sound.
Establishment of the land reclamation and extension services and provision of
short- and long-term credit should effectively help to increase small farmer
agricultural production. Possible risks involved are: (a) construction
delays because existing farming operations will have to be accommodated while
rehabilitation and construction of the irrigation and drainage systems take
place; and (b) because of low salaries, failure to attract qualified staff for
the agricultural extension and land reclamation offices, which would seriously
impair delivery of services to farmers. The first risk will be dealt with
through careful planning of construction and close supervision. The second
risk is easing because salaries have increased somewhat. The project is not
expected to present any environmental risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
93.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
94.       The draft agreement conforms to the normal pattern for loans for
irrigation projects. The main features of the Loan Agreement are referred to
in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of
loan effectiveness would be that the Government and BAP enter into an agree-
ment for making project funds available for subloans for on-farm investments
and the Government and ENERGOPROJEKT execute the construction contract for
the main infrastructure works (paras 77 and 83).
95.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
96.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
November 6, 1979
Washington D.C.



-  24  -                                             A flE:X  I
TASLE 3A                                                 Page  1  of  5
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
LAND AREA (-aOUSAND SQ. KM.)                   ??R                            - NOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           1285.2                                                    SAME         SAM      NEXT rbHI1eR
AGRICULTURAL     2t).0                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INcOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /l
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                  250.0       420.0      740.0          1124.4      1097.7      1942.6
eNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      445.0       619.0     642.0            943.1      730.7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPOIATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      10.2        13.5       16.4
URJAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF ToTAL) 46.3         57.4      62.8             59.3        49.0        51.2
POPULATION PRIOJECIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       29.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         55 .0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. "M.                         8.0        11.0      13.0             23.5       44.6         28.2
PER SQ. 1M. AGLICULTURAL LAND      33.0        44.0       54.0            80.5      140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.2        45.0      43.9             40.9       41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.0         51.9      53.0             54.4       55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.8         3.1        3.1             3.9         3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6         2.9       2.8              2.4        2.4          1.7
URBAN                               4.7/1       5.0       4.5              3.7        4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        42.9      39.0             32.8       31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        14.7       12.0             8.5        9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1/h       2.9       2.8              2.4        2.2          L.8
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF  ARUIED WOMEN)    ..           ..         ..            i7.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          110.0       102.0      90.0             99.4      104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   97.0         99.0     100.0            107.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0        61.5      61.7             60.4       64.4         80.9
OF WBHIC  ANIM4AL AND PULSE      25.0        24.0      25.3             28.3       23.5         31.3
CRILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.0        20.0       16.0             6.7        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.0         53.0      55.7             63.6       60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       122.0/f      ..             76.1       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        35.0      47.0             63.4       60.8         69.4
URBAN                                ..        58.0      72.0             79.5       75.7         85.1
RURAL                                *          8.0      15.0             38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        36.0         ..            58.8       46.0         70.1
URBAN                                ..        52.0        ..             77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                                          1 16.0       ..            24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2200.0/E    1920.0    1580.0           1841.9     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3620.071    3200.0         ..           933.7     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             490.0/i    470.0      500.0            563.4      453.4        197.6
URBAN                                '        410.0     340.0            279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                                .       3450.0   1300.0            1140.9     2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            .         19.0         .             25.7       22.1        17.3
HOULSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9         5.5       4.9/1            5.0        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              4.8           *-       5.1/1            4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                              4.9           ..       4.7/1            5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
MOTAL                               2.3         2.3       1.9/1            1.3        1.9          1.1
URBAN                               2.0          ..       1.771            1.3        1.6          1.2
RURAL                               2.7          ..       2.4/1            1.5        2.5          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (VERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
-.OTAL                            26.0        32.1      32.:/1           54.3       30.0         66.0
URBAN                              50.7                  54.371            0.1       71.7        95.1
RUAL~                              4.0          ..       277W,           14.2       17.3



- 25 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  5
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyLRAUIS
PERU                         - MOST REC&YT ESTIMATE) -
SAKE        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        LiCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTF- ENROLL.MENT aATIOS
PRIMA.-L:    TOTAL                 83.0       107.0      110.0           107.3      102.5        101.7
MALE                 95.0        114.0     116.0            109.1      108.6        110.0
FEMALE               71.0         99.0     107.0            107.4       97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 15.0        30.0       49.0            40.5       33.5         51.2
MALE                 18.0         34.0      54.0             40.4       38.4         56.4
FEKALE               13.0         26.0      44.L             39.0       30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 20.0          17.0       23.0            18.5        11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEAC8ER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0        40.0      40.0             37.1       35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                          12.0        U3.D      23.0             17.9       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCECT)        61.0          ..       72.0            77.4        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0        17.0      17.6             29.1       13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        101.0       134.0     131.0            172.1      122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0        29.0      32.0             67.9       38.3        102.6
5EWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..       124.0      96.0             76.1       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PU CAPITA   ..            ..         ..             4.2         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3100.0      4300.0    4600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.0        20.7      21.9             21.5       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              52.5        44.8      40.0             30.2       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.6        20.1      20.0             23.8       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.3        29.1       29.2            30.9       33.5         33.8
MALE                                 49.2        45.8       45.3            47.3       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                               13.2        12.1       12.8            13.3        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDLECY RATIO               1.6         1.5        1.6             1.5         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED SY
RIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF IOUSEHOLDS   39.0/k         ..        ..             23.7       20.8 
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS  64.4/k       61.0/1       ..            58.7       52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/k        1.97T       ..             2.9        3.9          3.4
L0WEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.07k        7.07T       ..             9.9       12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                                ..          ..     235.0            265.6      270.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     180.0            185.1      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     293.0            396.3      282.5        550.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     200.0            308.1      248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION 3ELOW POVERTY
ICOME LEVEL (PERCEYTT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      49.0             35.2       20.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            46.6       35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the mosc populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted. daca for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income (5351-1135 per capita. 1976);  /e  Upper
1ddle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1970-75   /g  1956-61;  /h  1960-65;  /i  1964;           1962;
,k  Personal income within labor force;  /.  1972.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capica is for 1978.
August, 1979



-26 -
ANNX I
WINI.Y     OV SWA                                                                    PaIAge  3 of5
otes     ihahte  aaaede    eesucsgeeaIsds  the setatoiaieadrlala, it shoud also he sated that they my oot be inter.--
tT~u' swarblebecause of the lank of  tatdardlaed defialtionsa  nd omoe.pta usad by differeit oountriea is -o11etiag the data. The data ar, onoathelws,
..eefol to descr ibe ordere of aesitud., indicate irsds. and oharantarice eertain elor dif"ere-.a betsewe ountrie...
mthe    ~ ~4)g5groupversa for eah jodloator are poplAti-o-wigbted geostrio seos., es.doin g the extrasvaue  of the hedioator and the most posauted
oossio.iWiWj676Thiito lagh of dat., grop aveges of all tedicatore for Capital twapiua Oi1 Eaportara and of edjoatorn of Aoo..a ha Water wAd korets
Miaposal, HOusig.X  I-ono  Distlitbtion and Ruwerty for other oontry grosopa are poplautioss-eaightad geusetrie  --s  without ascimse  of the etrem vaIn.. aad
the Lat poplated o.-try.  Sine. the  oerg  of ositriss                 tha iadstgee dend. - a-ilablit   ofdata sa-.stutu.   ato   st he aseri.ed
in rouating ammsa_f_'       _ of  a rtoa0B* Gheasencsar  mUeaeslseeeaxitee  o   meta                                      insabslowe   tevaoerf s
iadioat.r at a Is the, U docutry And reereese Coup.
YAM AMA (thouand  q.ka.)                                                               Acs  obrt   ipsl(eecto   osala      oa,ubn  a   ua 
W-ir   Total surface oes. copriessng lead are  and inland waters..                             fpol   ttl   ra,adrrl   evdb   crt   ipsla
WI&l-,tas.l-_Met recent eatilt. of  iearoutura   areausd te7 rsrily                    perce.tagS.  of their respetive p-oulationsa. Zoe-ta disposalIsay inolude
or preaenatly for crope, pasItures, seket end hitoha garden  o  to                   the otleoti- and dinposal, eith or without treatnot, of h.asn e-rete
lie fallow,                                                                          and wate--wter by wtatr-bone sy.tas or the use of pit privies and s,ails
ilat.latione.
iMP PER CAPITA (904) - Ge? per oapIta estisatas at currsnt garket Prices,              fr=ltimng,ar Phrsi.a - Population divided by cuter of practioicg phyatobin
-6IoLiIh~   convereice  sathod as World sunk Atlas (1976-78 banic);            qulifiiiti'Afc.i.od1al school at aniversity icel1.
1760, 1970, an  1975 data.,                                                                       Vk04a. r,p apng,,flfrp   - Poplistion divided hy ootr of prectlioig ale
1[!!T CWIB*gIC  PEp CAPITA - Anul  caution of ooeial eoegy                                gtf   dhe       wt.   -.s , pratical oircus, *  d acIetactcuae
(ca      iite    perls, natra  gs and bydr-, insolear end gn-Pauaiope                           cis s-       ttl   ra,adrrl- FPtp.l.to   (total, urba,
theesa  olnrity  io b.ilogrnss of o.. I equivaet per capita, 1960,adrrl   iie   yterrastr    ~ro  hopitlmcaaloi
1970, and 1976 data,                                                                   public end private general and speoilined hoatpital sld rebabilitation ocoter.
iHospitals are eatabliahsents permanently staffed by at least ..r phyciciao.
PiRUIATION ANFD VITAL STATISTICS                                                         iatabliahseits providing peiincpaIly custodial care are nut iooloded. Rural
Totaj5psation. bMYA7Agj Ceillione) - As of july 1: 1960, 1970, and                     hospitals, howeve, msolude health aud ssdioal conters not peresnotly ataffed
1977 data.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a phaicicsi (bot by a sedioal assitatnt, nura, sidife, eta.) whiob of for
UrbanPplto  (rctof toa)-Ratio of urban to total popuation;                             io-patiant aoondation end provide a lisited range of sdioal fecilitie..
dlffero  diftoitiona o ura rasny effect Omprability of data                       iLdsfleionsparopptali.3d - Total cuter of  deiesioaa to or di-obargec fro.
acing   utis  1960, 1970, and 1975 data,hsitl   i                                                    db  th`e outer of beds.
Poislt ion projotiooa
Powltio  10y-   000- Crret ppoplation projetions are based 00             HOUSING
195total pp  ation by age and eeo end their mortality and fertility           Ovre  iro  jueod(esc  prhueod     oa.ubo   n   rurl -
rae.Poeton pareset-r  for mortality rates ..Wris. of thrce                 A hoshl   ossn  fagopo  oivdaewosaeliigqatr   o
leel asuhg lIfe copectany at birth inceaieg with  -ontsye                     their solo scale. A boarder or lodger -y or my oot he i-olded In tie
per capita  oom  level, end femle life eoprctsny atablisiug athbouseho  for etatatical purpocee.
77.5 years.  Tlhe paract,a,  for fertility rate als  have throw  le-el           ivrAc cutebr of oeen    rrt   total, uban, and rura  - Overge  -ub-r
aesgdecitne io ferttityp accoding to Icce  bowl asd past                     of" prno per rote io al   r.,ad rura  occpied voneotiona.l deelling,
sally, otanoig perfora-c  Eac  ooutry Is thee assigned one of th..e               repectirely.  bur1ings roolde oo_-pereoet  totruure  and -ooocpiod pV-ts.
olne o!iotinain  of mortality and fertility trends for projwotioo               doeet   lcroty(eco   fdelig)-ttl  ranedrrl-Co
litionary ocutlaton - i aeltatio-sy ppolu.itioo there is no grooth                   total, urban, and -rura  deellingo repectio-ly.
lo   h   it   ate iseqa  to the death rate, aod also the age
otucture reins   -ovetnt. Thi  ii achieved ouly after fertility rates         EDUCATION
decline to the replacnet level of on,tonot rwpr-&ction rote,  h..                Adjus-ted Esoroliseot Ration
each geoeration of   -   ropiace  itself roatly.  The statitery pope-              Pr  "yscol-totl,slead feal  -Grose total, sale  nd fr-al  -arol-
laioioeeasetiatwd on the taxi, of the projected chaccereio                       ot ofhall  ge  ut1theprienryrlevl a  p-eoetagee of reprotiv- preury
ofth   poplato  lo the lyear 2000, sod the ratw of decline of fertility          school-age pop1solticos; sorally 1ooludee childreo aged 6.11 yeoro but
rate to rep__eet leve.                                                               adjuetd for different leogthe of prisary eduotiow; forcnoe,       uith
Gear sttiour ooultion is reahed - The your oh.. etatiory population                    unvra  ed.ctioc  -orowt ne  oooeed 110 p.eroet  i-v  -oa  popils
do   asbe  reced,                                                               are below or above the official school agw.
,pcoclato lenity                                                                      isonay cool - ;totl, sole epd frele - Cospued no nbc-; -ec-oe-Y
Per cc. he.- Mid-year population per eqoare kiloeter (110 heotares) of                 eductinreuiw   at leat four yeara of approced prisary  -tostrocto;
total  -m                                                                            provIdes gneeral ccoticna.l, or teacher training i--truvlo- for p,polo
Peo . h. agricultural land - Coaputed so uboe for agri~oltoralI 1usd                sualy of 12 to 17 yeuro of age; c-r-p-~deooec-ures er d,oorroly
only.                                                          roclo~~~~~~~~~~~~~Idod.
Poualo   g   tructure (Perent) - Children (0-14 pear), vorkig-age              Vocatiooal enrolet (percento   eooay   Vocational.lootituti-o  L-1i.de
(1.1   er), and retired (i5 year  and over) as percetages of aid-year           tcocl-outil   rohrpora   hv   prt  oveiol   ra
population; 1760, 1970, end 1977 data.                                                 departawo,to of seoodary Institutionu.
Posuation Growth Rate  groust) - total - Annual gArowth rateo of total aId-            Pl-ieanobe, ratio -     iriovy  dnd eeondar  -eTotal niudeoto et1o1cc  In
pear popultions for I950-60, 1990-70, sod 1970-77.prar  and secondi4r lees divi5dedb  n.eab   of t..ber. io the -orr-
Pop,ulaton Growth Haei (puest) - urban - Anooo1 growth ratwa of urban                     ponding levele.
populations for 1950.6O, 19D0-70, and 1970-75.                                       Adult Iiterary rate (pero      -Li t-rte  dolos (nble to read end -rite)n
Crude Birth Hale (per thousand) - Annual live births per thouand of aid-                 a peroentge of tota.l ndut roomooltioe agd 15 years had o-er.
yea  popeoltico; 19b0, 1970, end 1977 data.
C.    D.    Rate ~pr thousand) - Annual deaths p-r thousand of  id-yer        IOST C
jdj'1itii IiTl.l9 970an dWl977 data.                                                Pasege cars )orr thossoad popaletion)   Passenger cars coePrior setor cr
Irs Ncu atonate.bo-rA~  ge onabr of d-ughteI        ooac   ill lea                 orting less than eight porsooc; voolde. sioblso.ee, heares and rilitary
In her uorinl reproductive period if she eoperirtce  preceot  g00-                    ehioleo.
speifi  fertility ratre; usally fiv-year n-nage ending Is 1960,                    o'dlo Resier (ocr thouoad ponulation) - All typen of receiver  for radio
1970, and 1975.                                                                     broadcasts to geealpblic pe  housand of population;  -oluden unli-..oed
Pairs Ptsnnlng A -   . =ctrs. Annua )tbo-ando) - OnA-l nuber of                        reeivers In Contrive and in year  ehe.r-gistration of  aoio sets coo in
aceptor  obith-contro  device  under  -pi-e  of natioe ... sasoly                   effect; data for r-cet yo-  eny not be  -cp-rolc si-o  w-toutrc
Planning prg-sa                                                                      bholiohed licening.
fasIy Panong   Usrs  percent of-cried sevn) - P-ernotagr of corned            TV Roeivers tper th-aund poslat ion)-T           rcr   o  brondonut to go...r-1
_se  o   hidbaringag  (15-_. yearo) who on  hirth-conircl devicec            p~ublicper thouand population; coclude  unlic-o-d TV recivers ic -octrirs
to all -errid ecc  in sum  age group.                                                and in year. a  he  registration of TV -eto wac in effect.
NesaerCrulto  (pr honad oplaio) -ioo  the ovrageoiulto
iPd.0  ori Mi-dUC                                                                       of  da11  li,'l~    I1     -Id.o  proptily  eea  ltru  nesP Tpr' efjod 000priodical publicaItIon
Indc o  rod Podutio pefCait (1697-10s-Cde oiercpst                              devetrd prieaily to recording gor    ew.   It iscnIdered to he 'doily' 
sosoa podutin  f alfo  cdt,.rdutioc  -olue  seed LId                            if it opperur  at leat four tins.  -kr.
feedand7 to oiclendar year basis.  C-iditisco..erP rinary goods                    CL-na Annua  Attlend`soo. c  Canita no  Yna-b--d .. tin  n-bnr fctirOnce
(egtegran nteaIdofnar   Ihic  are edihle and contain ouriss1od durig tie-year, icoludiog adeiosio. to driv-in cin-s  end oobiln
(e.g  coffe  no  e  ar  colded). Aggregate production of each country              units..
Is based on national ave       producer  Itorsights.
per oagit. Mupini of caore  (ocen_t of r~osirsets) - Cospted fy..                LAO~R FORCE
energy    ivln  ofqst food npplw ar ailble Iusn C..toy Per -apita                Tnlta I      ore  thoso-do) - Poocoi-ally notiv  preotes, inciodico aod
per d00y. Aesiable soppliws  -V,piss dosotic production, laprts less               for     andFunemployed hut coolding husc-i-ro  otudeoto, etc. lefioit;.-o
epreanchunges In otook.  Net -uppl-c  eoiudc esoisul feed, oeedn,          in car.on coutries  rc nout  -opsa-ble.
quatities used to food Processing, and losses i diotribut iss. Requir-           F.-eenlpecown)    - Petl  lobor fore us p-eretage of toto1 labor force.
aet   e_re   i_tlte  by PAl based on physilogical needs for-Irl                                      - tho  force in fealin, foretry, bunting sod
soivLity ooddhealth consdering ..ir. seca  teaperaturo, bdwei,bto,                 finhi,ga  percetg  of total labor force
age ad cr0 distribtnin   of popuei-o, sod n11o.ing 10 p-ro-t foe                 Idsr.pret     ao   oc   nsnn,cntuhc, tbuatrn    n
ocitenIt hosehsid lee,-lctiit,wae  anId gas sol pecntao"                                                                       f osl  abr  or
Per upit ouply o  proein ares pertd-  - Fro trio conotoot of pe_atiiaiu   ee orct) - total, sale,sod feeaele-irtic iptlo'o
capita cet suppl  offoodper d        et eupply offod Is derioed soatch-ae   r  opsted as total, sale, end feen1e lobr foronopr
above. RO.quirentoi  fon all -otni-in  -stoliebed by USDA provide fora-oae   fttl   aead  e rpplto   fsoae  respetic-ly;
adici-  alosc   f 60 gras  of total Protris per da  and 20 gras  of                1C)0, 197, and 1975 data.  TheseareITO's pticipotion  rates reflectin
aI=a  and poise protein, of  hbioh 10 gEn-  hbould be antee  protein.              ag-e    trucur  of tie populntion, and long tier trend.  A  ecetisate
These standards are lone  than thos  c f 75 guas of total protein and              aefr   soioal soe
27gras  of alea  protein so an average for the ene1d, proposed by PAl          Esos....   Depeandency Ratio-Pai of  popuition under 15 sod 65 sod ovr to
50tie ThIrd Wocld Psod Survey,                                                    the labr f-s6   i j grou-p of 1,-64 Year.
Pe!r eapitu p-oteitsop    fros coia and poise - Protein supply of food
derived fru    niasnd pulse  io  ru pr dyp.                        I.C    DIBTRHmPTIOU
Child (ears 1-h)iitlt  Rate )oer thousand) - Aousa doatbe per th-uond                Percentaed of Private Thee (both in cash and hond) - OR-eivd by richest
in age group 1-4. yearn, t.ochildren t thin age group; for  tns  drool-              5 prcet. richest 20 p.erort, poorest 20 percest, sod poorrat 10 porowot
oPiog coutries Oats deri -d Pro  lftaesof houseolds.
itATHPVRTTAiTGUP
life HaEctasocat' birh (er)           craeahr   of year  of life                   "stIate        Mbc     .-ePoety t-one leve  (us$ per capita) -uban and rurl
reamng  t bith;199,17,n.          97I dt.Aslt  poverty i-nce leve  is that ineo   lee  e                                                    hc       inbeal
Iofant MOortality Pate (per t           Ann)-..Iua doathe of infants under one         cutr itionu11y adeqote diet plu  essen..tial ton-food requi-eeto :5 sot
year of age per thouand lire births.                                                 affordable.
Acces to Safe eater (-ereen of -osltin     otlEran  n   url-                         ttiated Relative  hetyI-nee-lvl (US$ per capita) - urban and rurlI
W.ster of people (total, urban, and  sral  su.rasnleanrs  t                          Rural relative poory -c  Ice1 is on-thied of a--ege par ospita
safe water eupply (inoloode   rete..td surface caters or satrrated but               personal incmn  of the country. Urban leve  is decOced fr-  thu r-ru  1e-r
uucotmoinsted eater suh notht.fete protected bor.sholee,sog,                         eith adJoat-xt foe higher coat of llivig in uban areas.
sod .soitae   mile) as percentages of their rpapetid- popultions. . In              solte Phouatt    Below Abanlute PorryIe   ee-(ert     ra and
an urbanaeaapublic fsomtnin or etsnpoet Ioated not sor  then                         rsal-Percet of populaio  (urban t and  ural   sho ar            aslte )  e
20O mterefrom a hous  way be onsidere d a. being within esasasabrle..t.p:br
-coes  of tha  houss.  In rura  areas reasonble  -cwe  would imply
that the h-.scif. or Sees.r  of the household do nut have to spend a                                                        oon-omi and Social Sata Dietica
dIsproportionate part of the day iu fetching the feamily awter needs                                                  E .onoejo Analysts and Projections Repartent
A,uget 1979



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                                                                                       Page 4 of 5
PERU
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
A C T U A L                                           I                                  p R U 0   E C T U   D                                 GROH  RATE (X p..                      1976
1965-            1970             1975            1976             1977            1978            1979             1980             1987                           1965-76    1976-78   1978-8)                  X of
IATIONAL ACCGONTS
(m    i   of US  Iollars at 1977 prtces)
Gross Domestit Product                      7470.9           9793.5          12668.7         13007.i          12848.5         12975.1         12859.5         13464.2         20101.8                               5.2      -0.1        6.4                  1
Dotes from T-rms of Trads                    -81.1            274.3            -59.2           -80.9              0.0          -209.7           242.0            250.1          533.9 -8.6
Gross Domestic Ilhos.                       7389.8          10067.8          12609.5         12926.2          12848.5         12765.4         13101.5         13714.3         20635.7                               5.2      .C.6        7.1                   99.4
Imports                                     2207.8           2247.2           3343.6          2575.3           2694.4          1931.2          2153.8           2347.6         3697.7                              2.4      -18.0        9.7                   22.1
Ropects                                     2081.1           2562.2           1911.5          1989.7           2137.8          2448.6          2963.9           3024.4         3424.5                             -0.4        10.9       4.9                   15.3
I"port', Tesms dTrade Adjusted              2000.0           2836.5           1852.3          1906.8           2137.8          2289.9          3205.9           3274.5         3958.3                             -0.4         8.3       8.2                   14.7
Rsso_rce G.p, T-s  of Trade Adjootcd    207.8                -589.3           1491.3           966.5            556.6          -307.0         -1052,1           -926.9         -260.7                                                    2.3                    7.4
Total Cos-pptioo                            6142.0           8127.1          11282.0         11402.7          11471.5         10821.2         10214.4         10607.4         16413.4                               5.8       -2.6       6.1                   87.7
olvest`ect                                  1455.6           1351.4           2818.8          2490.0           1933.6          1636.0          1835.0           2280.0         3961.5                              5.0      -18.9       13.4                   19.1
NotiRool Savinjo                            1093.1           1786.2           1116.0          1185.2           1007.4          1455.7          2116.4           2341.8         3575.4                               0.7       10.8      13.7                    9.1
DoMestic Savins                             1247.8           1940.7           1327.5          1523.5           1377.0          1943.7          2587.1           3106.9         4222.2                               1.8       13.0      11.7                   11.7
Dross Domestic Product, correct prices  4262.7               6216.8          1359(l.9        13658.0          12848.5         10106.2            --               -               --                              11.2      -14.0        --
PRICES IN US DOLLARS
(1177 - 100)
EIp-rt Prico Index                            37.1             47.3             87.6            87.7            100.0            98.0           124.5            132.4          191.9                               8.1        5.7       __
ITnport Price ITdec                           38.6             42.7             90.4            91.4            100.0           107.2           115.1            122.3          166.1                              8.2         8.3       __
Toros of Trade Ocdso                          96.1            110.7             96.9            95.9            100.0            91.4           108.2            108.3          115.6                               0.0       -2.4       __
DP DeflAtor                                   57.1              63.5           107.3           175.2            100.0            77.9            --               --             --                                 5.7      -13.9       __
Accoal1 Avorage Excho_ge Rate
(Soles per 3)                             26.8              38.7            40.8             56.1            82.0            165.8          224.0             --             -_
OUTPUT, LABOR PORCE AND                                                 GNP by Sector                                                                      Lab.r Force                                                              GNP per Capita
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970 PRICES                 Io Mil. af US ollara              Percent of TotalD Gro-th Rata                       In Tho-soods                  Percect of Total               Drosib Rote           in US Dollrs            of Aver.ac       Gcowth Rate
1561             1976             1961            1976          1961-76            1               1976             1961             1976               61-7                   1976          1961       1976        1961-76
Agriculture                                  988.9          1138.9              22.1             13.7             1.7          1766.6           2109.4             52.8            43.4              1.4         521.8       539.9       41.8       31.5          0.2
I.dostry                                    1465.3          3167.7              36.4            38.0              5.3           616.4           1019.1             19.1            21.0              3.4        2377.2    3108.3        190.8      181.2         1.8
ecrvice.                                    1666.3          4030.9              41.4            48.3              6.0           907.0           1731.6             28.1            35.6              4.4        1837.2    2327.8        147.5      135.7         1.6
TotallAverege                              Z1!fl            8237.5             100.0           100.0        5      .0          3237.0           4960.1 100.0                      100.0 26.I7 124. 9                       17151.5       8010 .0   2.2
CENTRAL GOVERNM4ENT FINANCE                                                                                                                   O                               Projected
(as porc.t of Corroct GDP                   1965             1970             1975            1976             1977            1978            _97-             1980             1981             1982
Corret Rov-c                                  17.2              16.1            15.9            14.5             14.6            15.8             16.8             17.3            17.5             17.6
Current ERpsnditure                           14.3              13.4            16.3            146.0            1.3             17.3             14.1             13.7            14.5             14.5
Correct Doviogo                                0.9               2.9            -0.5            -1.5             -3.7            -1.5              2.7              3.5             3.0              2.9
Capitol lopedpitore                            4.5              4.1              5 0             4.8              3.9              3.4             4.1              4.9             4.7              4.5
Exterool A.iastonce (Not)                      1.2              0.6              3.0              2.0             3.3             0.9             -1.9             -2.5            _2.0             -1.4
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DErTAILS                       Acte1                     Pr-lic.          Eot.                             DETAIL ON                                         1977/82 Uevelopmcot Ploc
as porcect of total Curroct EBpeod.)   1569                 1973             1976            1977                             PU5IC1 SETOTR                                     Us $ Milli..       % Totcl
INVESTMEUNT PR20GRAM
Edoc-tion                                     30.6              27.9            50.0            18.1
Health                                         9.0               6.3             6.2             4.7                           Agri-ltcro                                        1262 2             19.4
AgrIcltor-                                    3.6               4.4             1.8              1.3                         IUdcstry, T-uriom  od =iig                       1375.1             21.3
Othor Economic Services                        3.2              4.0              5.2             3.2                           Rnersy                                            1794.4             27.8
GDoeral Devlcce,                              46.4              42.7            46.9            54.1                           Trtccport cod OCoco,c8catloc                       992.4             13.8
1oterast o= Debt                               5.4              11.3            10.8            15.1                           Soil cod Locl Ictcro-t Projoote                  1128.3             17.5
Other _                                        1.8               3.3             6.2              3.5
Totld  Curret Expooditure                    100.              100.0            00.2           10 n0.                          Total                       6452.4                                  100.0
MONEY AND CREDIT                            1973              1974            1975             1976            1977             1978
(Milliocs of Score  oxtotacdiog
at the sod of period)
MRney cd Quoci-M oc.y                      87506           107012           126174          151062           198500          320950
Bank Credit to Public So.tor               20811            19773            43567          104900           198900          289800
Back Crodit to Private SDctor             60361             73152            59786          1349()           173800          238200
Momey me perce. t of GDP                    / e4.4              23.9            22.8             19.7            18.9             19.2
GDoRral Prior Indec In Soles (1977=1002-  37.8                  44.1            53.4             71.')          100.0           157.5
Aoooal porcceot e chacce icn
Gseoral Price IDd.o in SDlce              14.2              16.7             21.1            34.6             39.1            57.5
Rock Credit to Public Soctor              77.0              -5.0            120.3           106.9             69.0            45.7
Deck Credit to Priv-to Soctor             16.0              21.2             30.9            37.2             49.4            37.1
a/ Itplicit GDP Deflator






.28 -                                                                                                       P.age  0f 5
PERU
37 11020 02 1707      III0.120050  7 TAN0)1  AND0 727
ACTUAL                                              EST.                                                    O J EOTEZiD
19 72         197           197          197           196          1977          1978         17            190           1951         1982          193          1984          1983
11U0ARY tOF BALANCE OF P070E00S
fopor-  (I..ludIng NSF)                          152.9         1347.2        1828.2       1674.         1746         23.           29.           C.           005.6       i457.5        5179.8        5855.4       6525.         6575.7
Imports (Including NFl)        1102.9        ~~~~~~~~~~~14  08.  2462.3  3022.5       2628.0        29.4         27.1         77.          281.1         5779.9       5941.9        4599.3        5128.91      8140.8
ReoreBalanc  (AcUflo )f00t5.                                            -674.1      -1347.9        -983.4       -5 58.6        329.       1210.8        1173.7       i107.4        1167.9        12994.1       1057.8        432.9
list Factor Servius Income          ~~~~~-120.9    -180.9       -218.15       -250.:3      -366.4        -426.4       -577.7      -955.5       .i016.3       .1012.8       -io88.9      -1197.3       -1i8,.8       -1197.0
Osi Intersel Payments             ~~~~~~~-74.2  -100.7        -15.         -14.0         -324.0       -371.8        -693.2     - 62.2        -646a6       - 617.8       - 386.9       -567.3       - 541.2       -5341.6
of  htch onpblic Dc.T loom                    -52.0          -93.1       -117.2        -186.6       -498.8        -248.0       -321.1      -474.9       -519.4        -521.4        -  i2.8      -  05.5       -491.3        -494.1
Dirc  l      -setn  Inco-                     -46.7          -80.7        -42.7         -26.3        -42 .4        -56.         -14.5      -293.3       -37.0         - 400.0       -500.8       -610.0        -642.6       -5.
let C,rr.rt Trausfere                 39.2~~~~~~:   42.1          45.1         484            7.J1.                     56.0        60.0          64.8         68.9          73.06         Bi.          88.1          952
Solace Os Corteoct Account           -31.~~~~'l7  -91.6         -0.         -138.8        .1191.9       -926.2       -181.9        325.3         182.3        i64.6         166           180.64         70           6.
tat Diret F-rnlo  Io-etr-                         34.2           49.4         143.8        715.37        170.8         54.1          21.0    - 26.3            28.5      -20.1            20.0          73.0         26.5          70.6
Scat P,cblio 8610 bent ~~~~~~~~      280.0          667.4       1078.0        1090.2       1144.4        1026.4        6866.5      1746.4       1075.2        1032.8       1484.6        1138.7        7377.1       1967.1
A_  rlato                                     130.4         -504.9       -518.4        -249.4       -505.4        -406.4       -678.9    -558.6         - 889.7       -2030.1       -13.7.4      ..1201.2.     .1267.6      -3.086.
NtBen  orrcelg                                 149.6         362.5         759.0        830.8        939.0         620.0         367.6       787.8        18_5.4         22.7       -127       --6.               09.5         778.9)
Net other 841 Lo-
Di.  -eeen                                     20.1           47.8          80.          84.9         87.           3 4.3         61.8        81.4         973.9        107.8         132.7         153.0        170.2         187.2
lSorniaocIcc                      -~~~~    ~ ~~~~~50.8  -38.  -47.          -56.7        -75.          .74.4         43.       -  702       -89.9         -80.3         - 14.2       -134.2        -156.7          181.9
Net lorroetog        -30.7           9.3          52.7         27.8         ~~~~     ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~12.7  0.  -11.  3.2      4.0          9.4          18.7         i8.8          13.5           5.7
thor-treCapItol                                   203.7       .124.7         245.5        -150.0      .-551.0         .97.5        .715.5     - of.o         150.0       - 100.0      -  50.0       -  50.0           0            0
BOter Capinol (Bell                              -4.8           -91.6         -90.56       -15.6          8.0           0.0         -2.0          0             0            a             0             8 0
Change to Reserve (--Imornose) s/    -~~504        -33           28.          501           504          567           -20       - Boo.0       -193.3       -786          - 102.2       - 109.8a       1117        -145.7
Levl  f eeson(a  en  o  oe prId)*2   480.3          413.6        697.2         185.1       -55. 5        -7095.0      -623.0        137.4        370.7         447.3        595           659.3         7171.8       91.
BfE010ANI8SEi 08A20                              1972          1973          1974         0975          1878         1977          3978         1979          1980         1985             uGIv_R!ONsE! ,0- ge 7)                 Ps,Iet oTxo
Food                                               75.1          85.4          98.4        165.5         218.3        163.4         162.9       241.:6        276.3        637.0           30. 7        -13.8        22.1            6.8       .10.
Oth-rumeuce  goods                                 15.9          43.           41.4         8.           126.         151            85.3       125.3         144.9        315.0           6.           -19          2055. 4                      5.
Pesrolou, c-do aid de-lv-tv-                       37.3          47.           99.4        262.4         260.6        268 .9         34.8        43.4          73.0         456.0          652.6        -63.          4010.0                       .
Inctr-ediutn goode                                534.6         538.1         564.1        062.6        802.0         624.9         554.9       69.5.1       821.4        1744.6           25.8          -4.0        17.8           23.2        264
uapinai goode                                     17.4          3177          469.2        030.2         675.2        448.6         458.8       587.1         717.4       1761.6           36.0         -17.6        21.2           17.4        28.
.tdjuetueote and oon-monntsry gold  051.7  198.0   038.5        160.1        216.5         473.0         304.6       727.9        241.0 6 227 9  242.5           9.3:18.6 1            - 6.2             17.6         4.0
Tota  -ode lf..4b.)                               8B2.a        1032.0        1906.9       2390.1        2100.0       2164 .0       1600 .1     1972.9        2224.        4 ~ 766.6        26.8         -12.7        1.3.8          80.3         70.6
outfactor  -ori-o                                 280.8         367.2         5533.4       631.9         528.0        530.6         449.6       557.7         646.3       1374.2           16.1          -5.7        16.6           19.7        22.4
Told1 gode nod coof-eco   -sel-s                 1102.0        1400.0        2462.3       3022.0        2628.0       2680.4        2070.1      2478.1        2871.1       6190.6           24.2         -11.2        16.8          500.8        100.0
Flserl210.                                                      137.7         201.8        155.8         187.7        179SD         191.0       273.3         212.8        341.5           -5.2           4.0         8.6            8.6         35.2
Coffer                               ~~~~     ~     ~~~~    ~ ~~~~ ~~48.  63.6  314.8  53.2  101.0       196.3         168.        120.6         187          i.419.                        219.0    -     89.2                      2.
Othoragrtclt-rl  o.de                             108.6         203.:7        337.1        383.          24.          176.6         158.6       278.9         272.4        317.             0.7         -1.          18.4            8.3          7.9
topper                             ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~       ~~~~~18.  325.0  301.0  15.  230          392.3        408.6       76.            8.           48768                        3.          19.             18.4        21.7
SlIcer                               ~~~~     ~     ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~60.2  70.3  1489  144.3     145.1        172.5         286.9       272.5,        266.4        434.3           24.1          19.4        11.2            81           6.6
Ste  olmse16.                                                    2.           702.9        231.3         3196         335.7         796.~6      453            512         715.5           13.9          -3.5        13.41970.
Petroleu,  -ode nod d--riv-co                       6.5          15.0          28.          37.           59.3         52.2         1798        028            3.8         672928.7                                   932494
Neeceoto..ed goode                                 32.7          65.2         1516.51      15.2          133.01       221.8         338.1       562.7         1853.9      1599.1           42.0          57.5        22.8            08.3        21.7
Ton1 g00de                                        945.0         101.8        1303.3       1298.6        1359.5       1729.6        1940.6      3046.6        3426.7       5610.0            9.5          19.5        16.4           80.7         85.4
8Nc-f-atloeei..o.                                 207.9         235.4         325.8        383.5         385.1        412.2         459.3       522.9        378.2         963.7           16.7           9.2        11.2           19.3        14.6
OTet 800d5 cod -u-fsot-reev-n                    1177.9         2340.7       B828.2       1674.1        1744.6       2137.8        2399.9      36089.3       4034.8       63753.7          10.9          17.3        15.5          100.0       100.0
102N COMMITMENTS2                                                                                                                                                                                       86 B-l                                    -         en.
IBRD       0          49 0          26.0            0         174 1         60 0                                               ~~~~ ~        ~~~~ ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1973  1973  1974  1975  1978  1977     1978
12A                                                 .0       0            0                   .0           .80 .8                  18001016 osO 10G-TERM 700120 DEBT (Dteboreed Gel,)
Otbrh    hiotnl.                                                   .           25.          42.0         113.4         42.1
Ocvsooeosnte                        ~~~~~~         ~~~~~200.01  358.85  534.0  274.05       645.1        419.91       Tota  Debt Bonstaodioe (000 end
185.4         217.3        1308:          83.         139.1        404.2          o  h   nid                             1068.2        1431.5       2213.1        2988.7       35.            691 56.
Fe aiIesttto-oo                             161.2          636.1        386.0         432.89        798.2        ..7. 7       ooodlg  ndlshbcr-o                      1338.:2       2542.5        5547.9       4012.6        0784.2       4634.7   6557.6
Bcods                                                .              .2           . 0                        .0          1.3        PobIlo Debt Serelt                      -182.4        -390.1        -431.7       -436.1        -454.4        -851.6   -    0
Tuta  MIT1 Loos                                  446.7         1308.7       1310.8         033.2       1862.5        1898.1       ton-et                                    -52.0         .93.1       -113.2        -186.6        -198.8       a665.o  .321.-0
Other 88617 ve.e (ob-r  ovoilbtO)                   .0             .2           .0            .8           .0            .0
DETI 050D00 (Public Debt
10TERNAL 0E87 (lisbuned -tly)                                                             D-nedv  a  fBo 31. 187
Aetept  Prrceo~"t                               Oolbt Sorvico nniuFI  1141 Dalt)           15.6          29.5          23.6         26.0          28.0          30.9      33.3
1880                                                                         195-r          .7V'                                    cbt Sovc/O                                2.4           4.3           3.7          3.2           73            513.
B-kl Grou                                                                     102.6         5                                      Debt cnvtlsrres  Rono.n                    10.7         20.9          04.4          20.2         22.9          34.7      50.2
Ottna  1Selto-rl                                                               7324          .
Otoereosente                                             ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2274.4  42.                      TERNS (Pobli0 tall)
ppli.-                                                  ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~82.4  12.                              Inc. onTtal 000/Tota  000                  5 .0          6.4           51            6.7          5.4           5.5     16.4
FOo-oiol  o-tloions-                                                        2152.4         401                                    Toe1flttrvo/TOto1 000                      17.4          20.8          19.:5         14.          12.3          14.0     15.9
00Ef0aEN8Y 070000 FOR PUBL1C H1 4LT
57765.7       105.0
Total PuhLT~to 881 Db                                                         78.2                                                 Gonsttb./Iofc-rl  (tool. N702             25.4          47.           43.8         35738.0                    476         1.
Othar sair Debt                                                                             Saf Srecefer/Omportn (trot. 8702            6.8          19.2          26.3         21.3          18.7         23.4       3.2~~~~~~~~~i... O)  S  19 2  6  3  8.723.  3:
StTr-_forGocenDOtbor--et                34.8'         40.4          60.9          39.6         30.0         49.2        7.7
020  0.. Iro  Dia.                         3.5           1.3           0.8          1.4           3.6          0.5        2.0
dlGroup  D0h.  roe  tb.                  35            13           0.8           1.4           2.1          2.5       2.
of Adjusted foo Ontevon of pnyceonna support bane ond rod Isootlon.                              0000 001(800                               12.5           0.7           6.0          4.6N          4.0          3.7 6  4    3.7
8/ txooudes25 7155.8  lilcoon ofprovae-- noa  delt -ocotod ho It   os met                                                 pu Orcp D01ID0D                           12.5           9.2           6.8          4.6           4.80.                   3.7
0080  ebtI Snrsooe/Set S-rios              8.6           4.1           4.1          4.2           4.3          3.4       2.8
5010: Themar  differece  ia                         --ssOioOo  o  aro -tPito  floa-0 bo-et puIlloo.   p_5,0  on-oeBo   erPetsroeBhSrvc                                        8.41414.4.34                                                                  38
on   br-emthat limit the oom-broh&t1  of prtn of the hoOt ut.toodg fi,.~o4ou   h   also
thit -oe ujth the floon ohon -c the "Bo1lnufco. o...soeto'.ti






- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at September 30, 1979) 1/
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                             (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Borrower             Purpose           Bank     Undisbursed
25 loans fully disbursed                                         268.2
949      1973    Republic of Peru            Education            24.0          15.2
1025     1974    Republic of Peru            Roads                26.0           1.8
1196     1976    Republic of Peru            Transport            76.5         65.6
1215     1976    Republic of Peru            Power                36.0          20.4
1281     1976    CENTROMIN                   Mining               40.0         36.1
1283     1976    Banco Vivienda              Urban Dev.           21.6          18.8
1358     1977    COFIDE                      Industry             35.0          28.8
1403     1977    Republic of Peru            Agriculture          25.0          25.0
e-11     1978    Republic of Peru            Preinvestment         8.8           8.3
1693     1979    Republic of Peru            Program Loan        115.0        115.0
Total                                                  676.1         335.0
of which has been repaid                             141.0
Total now outstanding                                  535.1
Amount sold                         18.3
of which had been repaid          18.3                   -
Total now held by Bank 2/                              535.1
Total undisbursed                                                    335.0
1/   No IDA credits have been made to Peru.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1979)
Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                    Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.        Home Appliances       0.3              0.3
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.      Bricks               0.3               0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.           Building Materials   0.3               0.3
1960;1962   Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers            4.1              4.1
1962;1968   Cemento Andino, S.A.             Cement                2.2      0.2     2.4
1964;1967   Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo        Cement                1.1      0.5     1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.       Mining               15.0             15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura       Mining                2.0      0.5     2.5
Total gross commitments                              25.3       1.2    26.5
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             11.3       0.4    11.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                     14.0      0.8    14.8
Total undisbursed                                      2.0      0.5     2.5



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Psge 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 949-PE:   Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays in establishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform which was to determine curricula. This last difficulty was
resolved with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution is
still being hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome bureau-
cratic procedures. In order to resolve these problems, the project lhas been
modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage and
improve administrative procedures to speed execution (see President's memorandum
R79-59 of March 27, 1979).
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$25.0 million Loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date: August 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway which
connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast. In view of the unusually
difficult terrain and limited government implementation capacity, the project
was divided into two stages which are financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's memo-
randum R78-36), and the Closing Date postponed. Construction is now well
advanced and should be completed this year.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project's river ports component has progressed slowly because
of technical problems which delayed completion of design, but it is now about
to get underway, although with some cost increases. There have been serious
delays in contracting for civil works under the road component because of
slow procedures and limited government implementation capacity. These problems
now appear to be largely overcome and all project components should be under
construction by the end of the year. The project has been modified so as to
increase the financing for urgently needed road maintenance and eliminate
improvement of those road sections which cannot be completed within a reason-
able time (see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of the
current economic difficulties as well as procurement problems have delayed
somewhat the project's power distribution component and completion is expected
about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however, some
consultants have now been retained, and with strong support promised by newly
appointed officials in the Ministry of Energy it is expected that the program
will begin to progress normally in the near future. Because of the delays,
the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, have delayed the
project by about one year. Project execution has now begun and its pace
is expected to pick up this year, as most design work has been completed.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
cost, has been delayed by about one year because of the lack of local counter-
part funds. The Government has now decided to proceed with the project with
support from a supplementary IDB loan which will help cover part of the
financing shortfall. Engineering and procurement activities on this part of
the project have been initiated. Construction of the mine-water treatment
plant has also experienced some delays but is now advancing satisfactorily.
Loan 1358-PE: Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Since Peru's economic recession has led to a contraction of investment
and to lower than anticipated demand for the loan, disbursements are lagging
behind schedule. In view of this, the Borrower--the National Development Bank
(COFIDE)--has agreed to finance projects identified by commercial banks and
other financial institutions, which would also guarantee these loans and
provide some loan servicing. The initial response has been encouraging and
the credit line is now being committed more rapidly.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1403-PE:  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
DEPERTC, the executing agency, has completed the design for civil
works in two of the six valleys where irrigation systems are to be improved
and construction has started. The project's implementation is slightly behind
schedule but is expected to catch up over the next 12-18 months as construction
proceeds.
Loan S-11:      Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant's studies have commenced and are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1693-PE: Program Loan; US$115 million loan of May 17, 1979; Effective Date:
May 24, 1979; Closing Date: July 17, 1979.
The economic recovery program supported by the program loan is pro-
ceeding in a generally satisfactory manner with progress in some areas; --,
e.g., import liberalization and promotion of non-traditional exports--exceeding
the Bank's expectations. Because of a better than expected export performance,
Peru's foreign exchange constraint has been greatly relaxed resulting in a lag
in disbursements of the program loan. As of October 22, 1979 disbursements
stood at US$6.2 million.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
a)   Time taken by the country to prepare project:  Nineteen months
b)   The agency which has prepared the project:  Government consultants
and FAO/CP
c)   Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date of the first
Bank mission to consider the project:   February 1977
February 1978
d)   Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  November 14, 1978
e)   Date of completion of negotiations:  September 11, 1979
f)   Planned date of effectiveness:  March 1980
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
It has been agreed that the Government would:
a)   cause MAA to make DEPECHP responsible for agricultural extension,
land reclamation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage
works in the project area and provide the support and funding
necessary to enable the MAA's irrigation district office to
operate the irrigation and drainage systems (para 79);
b)   cause DEPECHP to employ consultants, acceptable to the Bank under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare final
designs of Bank-financed works and to supervise construction of
all project works (para 76);
c)   insure that DEPECHP, would, not later than June 30, 1980, prepare
and put into implementation a maintenance plan for the project
area irrigation and drainage networks acceptable to the Bank
(para 80);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
d)   cause DEPECHP to enter into operational agreements with and
adequately fund: (i) CENCIRA to establish a program for
training of the extension service staff (para 72); and
(ii) INIA to develop production technological packages for
the several project crops and assist the project in irriga-
tion and drainage research (para 73);
e)   by December 31, 1980 prepare terms of reference satisfactory
*                    to the Bank for a feasibility study for a possible future
irrigation rehabilitation project in the Chira-Piura area
(para 76); cause DEPECHP to retain consultants, under ternls
and conditions and with qualifications acceptable to the Bank,
to assist in: (i) planning, designing, and constructing
field drains and on-farm development works, and monitoring
the effects of the drainage system; (ii) developing a plan for
optimal utilization of the Chira-Piura water resources;
(iii) developing and putting into operation a maintenance
plan for the project area drainage network; (iv) establishing
the extension service and developing technical packages for
crop production; and (v) carrying out feasibility studies
for a possible future project (paras 75, 76);
f)   increase O&M water charges in the project area to cover 100 per-
cent of the O&M costs of the facilities to be rehabilitated or
constructed under the project; by December 31, 1983 begin trans-
fering to the irrigation district sufficient funds from the water
charges collected to cover all O&M costs of the irrigation and
drainage systems in the district; and recover, over a 50 year
period, as much as possible of the investment costs in accordance
with farmers' payment capacity (para 81);
g)   maintain the interest rate on project subloans at a minimum
of 33 percent inclusive of commissions and review from time to
time, in consultation with the Bank, the subloan interest so
as to take account of relevant changes in inflationary trends
and capital market conditions (para 84); and
h)   Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be that the
Borrower and BAP had signed an agreement for channeling project
funds for on-farm investments and for making subloans to farmers/
enterprises on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and
that the Government and ENERGOPROJEKT had executed the construc-
tion contract for the main infrastructure works (paras 77 and
83).






]BRD 14158
-4.30'                 T TAn-b.A                         81-00 N                                                                          80'30 D       -                                             t -                   51500                             IR   14?5
( ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     - mir  PCSFCt-lQ*S i--  .D  
POECH05                                                A  0550DM                                               IVR O   S
POECH~{                                                              SA 0VRNG          5      5
\  \s C h / 4' .< l 4 .- ' C                           IVt A   
PA C/ F/C
'\ .\    iS  N  W  ;  Ft    f  a S                                                                                                                                                       0~~~~~~~PlFt 
-55?Ol        /                                     {        t           S          ,1                                       .       '     '              ,ao/>q4,        ''                                   5-00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S5~0
CASACAO5S DIVERQIr  4-#-    CsNI
f\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '~  >,@,                                                 /<<                                  ,.-
C0 CPA N                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >--V-                -
I                          / C)<o    \/.tP                                                                                                   Yf'-<-\            $1
j                 5*SPAW   5IAM,,,AXs   /<270                                                            n Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation 11 Project
NIsONSETERS  :;   ~{Ii   i u                                                                                     CHIRA-PIURA-SAN LORENZO SYSTEM
'\                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJFCT:
\L.    . S LA-AS P,ArS .rAleAl oSMo                      Irrigorpos cr5c0
IBRD FIRD,-ed  CASOns                            Chiro Volley
NA- BRD F,o'sed C-1SII             I             Son Loreno
0X            is     20      25    3       3;             .                                                                                                Non  RD F SOSASA ClAeAS  dons                    Upper P,.,e
KILOM5ETERS                          i                \                                                                                   EXIST NG                                    -    M,ddln PFlra
9 ~        ~         IE 19                        2,3 20                \ I~~                                                      ~                 4       ra* Coo                                 a7Risers
SOAPrA3h&whn7vvqbrthSwdenJhhrviehhera;#              ||                                                                              -Drosns rJn-  'eserYars                          Posed rAods
An-sSacse tn sn ASS-s-. mb s,sdth snpi~  s5X st<if55. Wesh-htiS7deasAhn-sS                                                                              7      Disers,oenCorns
*fSOes arsSsASnv /uM57 h7 .S, Ss' OnAS Jwr,s cahVlos Vef5SV esS'sne'.,m
msASPsepr7 sAAnSaASe7dSeA                       ea,ov                 :                                                           SD B030'                                                                          ao1,n9



