Document of
The World Bank  LE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2539-PE
PERU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
October 15, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(At February 1979 Exchange Rate)
US$1              =  Peruvian S/.$205.0
S/.$100          =            US$   0.49
S/.$1 million    =            US$4,900.0
Weights and Measures
2
1 hectare (ha)                 = 10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )       = 0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                = 2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                    = 0.26 gallons
1 metric ton (mt)         3    = 1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
1 million cubic meter (Mm )   = 264.18 million gallons
Abbreviations
ACCHP:              Asociacion de Consultores Proyecto Chira-Piura
The Chira-Piura Consultants Association
BAP:                Banco Agrario del Peru
Peruvian Agricultural Bank
CAP:                Cooperativa Agraria de Produccion
Agrarian Production Cooperative
CENCIRA:            Centro Nacional de Capacitacion para la Reforma Agraria
National Training Center for Agrarian Reform
CNP:                Consejo Nacional de Produccion
National Production Council
CRIA:               Centro Regional de Investigacion Agropecuaria
Regional Center of Agricultural Research
DDA:                Direccion de Desarrollo Agropecuario de DEPECHP
Agriculture and Livestock Directorate of DEPECHP
DEO:                Direccion de Estudios y Obras de DEPECHP
Studies and Works Directorate of DEPECHP
DEPECHP:            Direccion Proyecto Especial Chira-Piura
Chira-Piura Special Project
DEPERTC:            Direccion Proyecto Especial de Rehabilitacion de
Tierras Costeras
Special Project for Rehabilitation of Coastal Lands
DGAC:               Direccion General de Agricultura y Crianzas
General Directorate of Agriculture and Livestock
DGAS:               Direccion General de Aguas y Suelos
General Directorate of Water and Soil
DGC:                Direccion General de Comercializacion
General Directorate of Marketing
DGFF:               Direccion General de Silvicultura y Fauna
General Directorate of Forestry and Wildlife
DGRA:               Direccion General de Reforma Agraria
General Directorate of Agrarian Reform



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOM:                Direccion de Operacion y Mantenimiento de DEPECHP
Operation and Maintenance Directorate of DEPECHP
DRT:                Direccion de Rehabilitacion de Tierras de DEPECHP
Land Reclamation Directorate of DEPECHP
ENCI:               Empresa Nacional de Comercializacion de Insumos
National Marketing Company
EPSA:               Empresa Publica de Servicios Agropecuarios
Public Company of Agricultural Services
FAO:                Food and Agricultural Organization
FUNDEAL:            Fundacion para el Desarrollo del Algodon
Cotton Development Foundation
ICB:                International Competitive Bidding
IDB:                Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
Interamerican Development Bank
IECO:               International Engineering Company
INIA:               Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agricola
National Agricultural Research Institute
LCB:                Local Competitive Bidding
MAA:                Ministerio de Agricultura y Alimentacion
Ministry of Agriculture and Food
UNP:                Universidad Nacional de Piura
National University of Piura
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .....      .......................       1
A.  General      ...............................                1
The Resource Base ......       ........................     1
The Coastal Zone ......       .......................     1
The Sierra ........      ...........................      2
The Selva ........      ............................      2
Agrarian Reform .......       .........................     2
Other Policy Measures and Current Trends ........           3
B.  Irrigation and Drainage Subsector ....      ..........      4
C. Previous Bank Involvement and Proposed Strategy
for the Sector ...............................            5
D.  Institutional Framework ........................            6
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ...................................            7
Location   .......................................          7
Climate                    ...   8
Soils, Topography and Drainage ..............  ...          8
Existing Infrastructure .....     ...................       9
Land Use .......................................            9
Population and Employment ...................   ...        10
Land Tenure and Farmer Organizations       ...........     10
Agricultural Services ......    ....................       11
Extension       ....................................     11
Research       .....................................     11
Agricultural Credit ......    ....................       11
Marketing ...     ...................................      12
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. J. Roman, E. Brook, M. Raczynski, and D. van der Sluijs (Bank), and
Messrs. A. Kogan and C. Bower (consultants) that visited Peru in November
1978 and a follow-up mission consisting of Messrs. J. Roman, E. Brook, and
D. van der Sluijs (Bank) and W. Johnston (consultant) in February 1979.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
III.        THE  PROJECT   .........................................                                                 12
Project Origin ................                                                   .              12
Project  Description   ............................                                              12
Detailed  Features   ..............................                                              13
Irrigation  Works   .............................                                             13
Flood  Protection  Works   .......................                                            14
Drainage  Works   ...............................                                             14
On-farm Investments - Development Credit   .....                                              14
Equipment   ....................................                                              14
Technical Services .......................14
Consultants'   Services   ........................                                            14
Status  of  Project  Preparation   ..................                                            15
Water  Supply  and  Demand   ........................                                             15
Water  Quality   ..................................                                              16
International  Waters   ...........................                                              16
Implementation  Schedule   ........................                                              16
Cost  Estimates   .................................                                              16
Financing   .........                   .............................                            17
Procurement ..........                                                                            18
Disbursement   ...................................                                                19
IV.       PROJECT  ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT   ................                                                20
Executing  Agency   ...............................                                               20
Engineering and Construction of Civil Works   ....                                                20
Land Reclamation, Drainage and On-farm Works ...                                                  20
Operation  and  Maintenance   ......................                                             21
Agricultural  Extension  and  Research   ....                              ........              21
Development  Credit   .............................                                              22
Consultants'   Services   ..........................                                             23
Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ......................                                               23
Accounts  and  Audits   ............................                                             23
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, BENEFICIARIES AND
COST  RECOVERY   ....................................                                                24
Future Land Use and Cropping Pattern--
Yield,   Production   ............................                                            24
Market  Prospects  and  Prices   ....................                                             25
Beneficiaries   ..................................                                               25
Water  Charges   ..................................                                               26
VI.       BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION   .........................                                                 27
Benefits   .......................................                                               27
Risk  and  Sensitivity   ...........................                                             27
Environmental  Impact   ...........................                                              28
VII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION    ..................................                                                 29



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Supporting Tables and Charts
1    Volume of Agricultural Production
2    Climatic Data
3    Land Reclamation Service - Cost Estimates
4    Agricultural Extension Service - Cost Estimates
5    Maintenance Equipment - CIF Peruvian Port
6    Irrigation Water Requirements
7    Water Balance - Medium and Lower Piura Valley
8    Project Cost
9    Schedule of Expenditures
10    Financing Plan
11    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
12    With and Without Project, Area Development and Cropping Pattern
13    Yields Per Hectare and Volume of Production With and Without
Project
14    Producer Prices at Farmgate Level
15    Agricultural Labor Requirement
16    Crops Production Cost per Ha - 1.8-ha Farm Model
17    Crops Production Cost per Ha - 15-ha and 1,000-ha Farm Model
18    1.8-ha Farm Model
19    15-ha Farm Model
20    1,000-ha Farm Model
21    Annual Operation and Maintenance Cost (Civil Works) - O&M
22    Rent and Cost Recovery
23    Project Production Benefits
24    Rate of Return Streams
25    Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Chart No. 20376 Implementation Schedule
Chart No. 20375 Organization Chart
2.   List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 14158 - Chira-Piura-San Lorenzo System
IBRD 14159 - Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation II Project






PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General 1/
1.01      Agriculture contributes about 13% to Peru's GDP, but it occupies
more than 42% of the labor force and accounts for about 22% of total merchan-
dise exports. Food processing employs an additional 4% of the labor force and
contributes about 9% of the GDP. The value of food production at constant
prices increased only at an average of 1% per annum from the mid-1960s to the
mid-1970s, while, during the same period, population increased by an average
of 2.9% per annum. Consequently, the country's dependence on imported food-
stuffs has grown substantially, mainly in dairy products, pulses, vegetable
oils and grains such as wheat and maize. At the same time, the volume of
agricultural exports declined and by 1975/76 was only about 60% of its 1962/63
level. As a result, the value of agricultural imports as a percentage of agri-
cultural exports has increased significantly during the last decade. Improvement
of the performance of the agricultural sector has now become critical to the
country's economic progress and to the well-being of the rural population.
Annex 1, Table 1 shows agricultural production during the period 1961/78.
The Resource Base
1.02      In comparison to other Latin American countries, Peru has a rela-
tively limited natural resource base. While the total area of the country is
128.5 million ha, only about 3.7 million ha, or 2.9%, are cultivable and
another 22 million ha (17%) are natural pastureland. Most of the soils suit-
able for intensive agriculture are already cultivated, but additional land
could be developed either in the Ceja de Selva (lower slopes of the Andes),
which would be expensive because of the lack of access and basic infrastruc-
ture and services, or in the coastal zone, also requiring substantial invest-
ments to improve presently unproductive land. The ratio of cropland actually
harvested to rural population is 0.34, but figures vary according to the
three main ecological regions into which Peru can be divided--the Coastal Zone,
the Sierra and the Selva.
1.03      The Coastal Zone.  The Coastal Zone in the west of the country,
consists mainly of flat desert plains, sand dunes and the dry, heavily eroded
Andean foothills. It is a narrow 3,000-km-long belt, covering about 13
million ha (10.2% of the total land area), where about 46% of the country's
1/   An Agricultural Sector Survey Updating Report was issued in September 1977.
The findings of that report are incorporated in Peru: Long-Term Develop-
ment Issues (2204-PE) of April 16, 1979.



-2-
population lives. Coastal agriculture is limited to the river valleys where
irrigation is possible; these valleys produce over 40% of the country's gross
value of crop production, including sugar, rice, cotton, maize, potatoes,
citrus, olives and grapes. The region enjoys relatively close proximity to
the urban markets and a good transportation network and other infrastructure
and is relatively prosperous.
1.04      The Sierra.  The Sierra, or Andean highland region, covers over
33.2 million ha (26% of the total land area) and accounts for about 44% of
the population. It consists of steep mountains reaching over 5,000 m and
high valleys located between the mountain ranges. Some 2.3 million ha in the
Sierra are cropped and about 17.3 million ha are used for grazing, mostly
under marginal conditions because of steep slopes and high altitudes. Severe
topography, erratic rainfall and extreme changes in temperature make farming
difficult and limited to a short season, leading to low agricultural produc-
tivity. While there is little scope for putting new land into production,
there is potential for improving livestock productivity.
1.05      The Selva.  The Selva, or jungle region, east of the Andes mountains,
covers about 81.6 million ha (63.8% of the total land area) and accounts for
10% of total population. ONERN, the Government's Natural Resource Evaluation
Agency, has classified most soils in the lower Selva as marginal and suitable
for grazing and forestry. Soils in the foothills between the Andes and the
lower Selva, called Ceja de Selva, are generally of better quality, and
agriculture there is concentrated primarily in four river valleys. Fruits,
coffee and tea are the main crops in the Ceja de Selva, and livestock produc-
tion is being developed in some areas. Despite the relatively low soil
quality, the Selva region has been gaining importance economically because
of oil exploitation and construction of two Trans-Andean Highway projects,
one financed by the Bank and the other by the Inter-American Development Bank.
It is likely that these projects will give impetus to further agricultural
development in the region.
Agrarian Reform
1.06      In June 1969, the Government approved a new land reform law that was
aimed at (a) expropriation of 14,500 estates covering 43% of the country's
gross farm area (10.3 million ha) by the end of 1977; and (b) adjudication of
10.6 million ha, including 430,000 ha of state land to agricultural workers,
small farmers and Indian communities. These targets were by and large reached
by the end of 1978. Altogether, 434,000 rural families, out of a total of
1.8 million families, gained access to land through this law.
1.07      A typical feature of the agrarian reform in the initial stage,
which has been achieved, is that it did not result in the parceling up of
large landholdings among individual farmers, but, rather, left intact large
estates (cotton and sugar estates in the Costa, cattle and sheep holdings in
the Sierra), which are now run on a commercial basis under various forms of
cooperative associations (without individual holdings). By and large, these
associations are working fairly well in situations where a large-scale



-3-
organization for production already existed and the workers, now members of
the cooperative, were acquainted with the technologies used. The main problems
still encountered are (a) that a large number of technicians and administrators
previously working on private estates left and had to be replaced by less
qualified staff; and (b) cooperative members push for increased wages and
fringe benefits and purchase of labor-saving machinery, which has resulted in
a difficult financial situation. On the other hand, Government's efforts to
get small farmers, landless workers and Indian communities to work together in
production and service cooperatives has had little success in spite of generous
financial backing; and most farmers continue to farm their plots individually.
1.08      Another important feature is that some 78% of the rural population,
65% of them landless workers or farmers with less than 2 ha, were left
untouched by the agrarian reform. In a sense, these groups are now worse off
than before; for the landless workers, employment opportunities on the large
cooperative farms have now become more scarce, and Government has channelled
its agricultural support services almost exclusively to the cooperatives.
Other Policy Measures and Current Trends
1.09      Concurrent with implementation of the agrarian reform, Government
adopted other policies which have tended to greatly increase its influence
in the production and marketing of agricultural commodities. In 1975, it
created a National Production System (SPA) under which production targets for
all priority commodities are proposed by a National Production Council (CNP).
They are then relayed to regional and local authorities and finally to produc-
tion nuclei, which are groupings of farmers with at least 3 ha of land, for
comments. Final production targets are then set by CNP after consideration of
the comments. Individual producers must comply with the production plan of
their nuclei; otherwise, no credit, fertilizer or irrigation water will be
provided. The Government has also (a) enforced price control by setting prices
at the producer and wholesale and consumer levels and by fixing marketing
margins; (b) set up a series of Government organizations to enforce price
controls and control marketing mechanisms and to carry out all marketing of
agricultural exports and all imports of basic foodstuffs; and (c) set up a
complex system of transport licenses and controls to regulate the movement of
produce between farms and consumers.
1.10      To an important, although not wholly quantifiable, extent, the
Government policies regarding production and prices have braked the expansion
of output. From 1968 to 1977 agricultural output increased by only 8%, while
per capita food production fell by 10%. Output performance appears to have
been especially poor since 1972. Between the various products, the trends
have been disparate, e.g., rice and livestock output has increased, potato
production has stagnated; and sugar declined.



- 4 -
1.11      In order to increase production, reduce agricultural imports and
improve producers' returns, the Government has been revising its price
control and marketing policies. In 1978, producer prices were substantially
increased; cotton prices are now based on world market levels and restric-
tions on production were relaxed; and consumer subsidies on some food products
were discontinued.
B. Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
1.12      Of the total 3.7 million ha of cropland in Peru, about one-third, or
1 million ha, are irrigated. Peru has abundant water resources, which,
however, are poorly distributed geographically: most of the more important
river systems flow from the Andes mountains to the east, into the Amazonian
basin, while Peru's better agricultural lands are located west of the Andes.
Some 50 rivers, flowing to the west through the coastal region into the
Pacific, provide the bulk of irrigation water for about 770,000 ha in the
Costa and for six of the 10 largest cities.
1.13      The coastal valleys where water is available have conditions that
are generally favorable for high crop production due to potentially good soils
and near optimal solar radiation and temperatures. Maximum river flows occur
between December and March (summer), when average daily temperatures along
the coast are above 20 0C.  This is the cropping season for the main annual
crops such as cotton, maize, sorghum, rice and vegetables. Sugarcane is
grown in the northern coastal areas.
1.14      Prior to the land reform in the late 1960s, most of the construction
and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure was taken care
of by the private sector, with hardly any Government support. However, the
systems were developed on a piecemeal basis because large-scale irrigation
investments and management on a regional basis were beyond the capacity of the
private sector to handle. As a result, irrigation systems are too old and
inadequate to achieve efficient water management and optimum use of land and
water resources. Moreover, as drainage facilities are largely lacking, water-
logging and salinization has increasingly become a problem: it is estimated
that a total of 250,000 ha of irrigated lands are now affected to varying
degrees, and the affected areas are increasing. Since the salts are generally
non-alkali and soils are generally light to medium textured, the land can be
reclaimed by leaching and construction of proper drainage. In facing the
problem of scarce land resources, a rapidly growing population and growing
dependency on imported foods, the Government, in 1977, decided to initiate
a program for the rehabilitation of coastal lands as a more quickly maturing
and less costly alternative to large new irrigation schemes. The first stage
of this plan is Irrigation Rehabilitation Project I, which, with Bank finance
(Loan 1403-PE), aims at the rehabilitation of six coastal valleys, thereby
reclaiming and putting into agricultural production some 19,000 ha. The
project is in the early stage of implementation, with the first year devoted
mainly to establishing the executing agency and preparing final engineering
designs; construction is slightly behind schedule.



1.15      Water rights and management are governed by the General Water Law
of July 24, 1969. All waters from whatever source are the property of the
state, and previous private water rights have been cancelled. Responsibility
for control and use of the water rests with the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food (MAA), which allocates it in consultation with the farmers' water users'
associations.
1.16      Under the law, farmers should, in accordance with their capacity,
pay water charges, tarifas, to cover full operation and maintenance, plus a
reasonable amount of the investment costs of the works. The General Direc-
torate of Water and Soil of MAA is responsible for establishing water rates
and reviewing them annually. However, water charges are nominal, collection
rates are only about 40%, and receipts do not cover O&M costs. Moreover,
the monies that are collected go to the national treasurer and not to the
irrigation districts where farmers could see a return for the fees they paid.
In practice, maintenance is carried out by the water users' associations, which
are authorized to impose charges, and quotas, to pay for the work.
C. Previous Bank Involvement and Proposed Strategy for the Sector
1.17      The Bank has made some 10 agricultural loans to Peru.  Five of them,
in the period 1954-73, totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit
and were channelled through the Peruvian Agricultural Bank (BAP) (105-PE,
162-PE, 257-PE, 415-PE and 933-PE). In general, BAP performance has been
good; disbursements of the last loan (933-PE) have been completed and pre-
paration of a sixth loan is underway. Two other loans (67-PE of 1952 and 98-PE
of 1954), totalling US$3 million, were for farm machinery imports and the
other three for irrigation. Loans 114-PE of 1955 and 418-PE of 1965, total-
ling US$24.5 million, financed irrigation works and land settlement in the
San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura basins. Owing to managerial problems,
inadequate counterpart funding and shortage of water, the second of these
loans encountered considerable difficulties and took 11 years to disburse but
nevertheless achieved its basic goals and produced important benefits (Project
Performance Audit Report, SECM-48 of January, 1978). The third irrigation
project, Loan 1403-PE signed in 1977, was referred to in paragraph 1.14.
1.18      It is anticipated that the Bank will intensify its lending operations
in the agricultural sector in the coming years in support of the Government's
policy initiatives and investment programs. Further large-scale irrigation
rehabilitation and drainage projects on the Coast are a distinct possibility
as the Government further strengthens its implementation capabilities in this
area. Financing of small-scale irrigation construction and improvement
subprojects carried out under the aegis of a national program in both the
Coast and the Sierra is to be further examined with the authorities. The Bank
has appraised a small integrated rural development project in the Southern
Altiplano (Puno) and the experience to be gained in its execution should pro-
vide the basis for future projects of that type in the Sierra. There are
considerable possibilities for promoting tropical tree crop and livestock
development and rural infrastructure in the Ceja de la Selva, while efforts
should be made to identify development possibilities for the lower Selva.



6-
Finally, among the projects with national scope would be those that
included term lending for crop, livestock and agro-industrial development
through BAP (building on the experience of five previous loans); provision of
marketing and storage infrastructure; and strengthening of the agricultural
research and extension services. Such an approach would make a direct impact
on the productive capacities and quality of life of the low-income rural
population.
D. Institutional Framework
1.19      Since 1978, MAA has been responsible for all policies and opera-
tions in the agricultural sector. At the central level, under the Minister,
MAA operates through two Director Superiors and five General Directorates:
Agrarian Reform (DGRA); Water and Soil (DGAS); Forestry and Wildlife (DGFF);
Agriculture and Livestock (DGAC); and Marketing (DGC). The Director Superiors
and general directorates are responsible for formulating policy and monitoring
operations, assisted by 10 general offices (Oficinas Generales) that provide
technical, legal and administrative support. Operations at field level are
carried out by 13 regional offices (Agrarian Regions), subdivided, in turn,
into 24 zonal offices (Agrarian Zones). The Chira-Piura area is under the
jurisdiction of Agrarian Region 1, Piura zone.
1.20      Generally, MAA, at both the central and local levels, has suffered
from budgetary limitations and administrative red tape and, because of low
salaries, has difficulties in retaining qualified personnel, thus limiting its
coverage and effectiveness. Compounding the situation, a considerable number
of qualified technicians have left because of the economic difficulties the
country has faced. To strengthen the operational capacity of the sector, the
Government should make efforts to attract qualified and experienced technicians
to key managerial positions.
1.21      To overcome the problems facing regional offices, the Ministry has
set up a number of so-called Special Projects, which are semi-autonomous
offices, reporting directly to one of the Director Superiors. The special
projects are responsible for implementing large projects or programs. Among
them are the Chira-Piura Special Project (DEPECHP) and the Special Project
for the Rehabilitation of Coastal Lands (DEPERTC).
1.22      DEPECHP, since its creation in 1969, has been responsible mainly
for construction of the Poechos dam, the Chira-Piura diversion canal and the
Lower Piura main drainage network (para 3.01) and for carrying out feasibility
studies for agricultural development of the Chira-Piura region. It has also
carried out some small resettlement projects for people displaced by the
Poechos reservoir. DEPECHP's main strength therefore is in construction, but
it has also developed good project managerial capabilities and is gradually
becoming involved in agricultural development. DEPERTC was created in 1977
and its main responsibility has been the implementation of the Bank-financed
Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project (Loan 1403-PE).



-7-
1.23      Other departments and government agencies under MAA are:  the
National Training Center for Agrarian Reform (CENCIRA); the Public Company
of Agricultural Services (EPSA) in charge of marketing basic agricultural
products; the National Marketing Company (ENCI) in charge of supply of agri-
cultural inputs and marketing of cotton; and the National Agricultural
Research Institute (INIA). 1/
1.24      BAP is a government-owned institution with 18 branch offices, 54
agencies and 34 field offices. It has executed five agricultural credit loans
(para 1.17), acts as banking agent for the on-farm development credit component
of the ongoing Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project (para 1.14) and would
provide short- and long-term credit under the project. BAP provides about 85%
of institutional credit, 10% is provided by commercial banks and the rest by
other development banks and direct Government allocations. About 90% of BAP's
annual lending is short-term production credit, mainly to associative enter-
prises. Its larger source of short-term resources is the Central Bank through
its discount facilities and preferential interest rates. Long-term loans have
generally been made using external sources such as Bank or IDB loans. BAP's
lending operations have grown in recent years owing to its lending to associa-
tive enterprises and decreasing participation of private banks. In the period
1970 to 1975 lending operations increased by about one-third in real terms.
However, the volume of long-term development credit has increased to a lesser
degree because of lack of resources and reduced willingness to invest by
farmers. Although a high level of overdues has been a problem in recent
years, an examination of the cash receipts and payments shows a steady
continuing improvement in the collection of short-term loans, which account
for the greatest part of BAP's lending.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The lower Piura Valley project area is part of the contiguous
Chira-Piura plains covering, altogether, some 167,000 ha of potential arable
land, of which some 137,000 are presently under irrigation with surface and
groundwater. The plains are located about 1,000 km north of Lima near the
border with Ecuador. The Chira River, with its tributaries, the Quiroz and
Chipillico, and the Piura River are the main surface water sources (IBRD Map
No. 14158). However, water resources are unevenly distributed with regard to
land availability, and the Chira River flow is more abundant and regular than
that of the Piura River. Past Government efforts have therefore concentrated
on storing and diverting water from the Chira to San Lorenzo plains and to
the Piura Valley.
1/   INIA was created in February 1979 but had not yet become operational.
It will be responsible for all basic and applied research in the sector
and will take over the functions of the four existing regional centers
of agricultural research (CRIAs).



- 8 -
2.02      In the 1950s and 1960s, partially with Bank finance (Loans 114-PE
and 118-PE), the Government developed the San Lorenzo project consisting of
diversion works to transfer water from the Quiroz to the Piura and Chipillico
Rivers, the San Lorenzo dam on the latter river (260 Mm3) and the Sa. 1C;-nzo
irrigation system. Construction of these works brought additional areas under
irrigation and alleviated water shortages in the middle and lower Piura
Valleys, but did not solve the problem entirely. Therefore, the next stage
was construction of the Poechos reservoir (930 Mm3) and of the Chira-Piura
diversion canal, both of which were completed in 1976 with financing from the
Yugoslavian firm, ENERGOPROJEKT, ensuring permanent water supply from the
regulated Chira River to the middle and lower Piura Valley.
2.03      The lower Piura Valley, with 34,700 net irrigable ha, extends
southward from the city of Piura to the Laguna Ramon. The area is served by
good communication facilities. The Pan-American highway connects it with
Lima, the rest of the country and Ecuador, and commercial airlines have
daily flights from Lima to Piura. Cotton production from the area is exported
through the port of Paita.
Climate
2.04      The climate is desertic, with an average annual rainfall of only
62 mm, most of it from January through March. Rainfall patterns are erratic,
and, while there are years with virtually no rainfall, daily precipitation as
high as 53 mm has also been recorded. Average annual evaporation is 1,840 mm.
Monthly average temperature ranges from 21.3  in August to 26.50 in January.
Average relative humidity varies from 55% in February to 71% in July (for
details, see Annex 1, Table 2).
Soils, Topography and Drainage
2.05      The lower Piura area consists of a layer of predominantly coarse
textured alluvium 5 to 40 m thick, underlain by fine, impermeable, semi-
consolidated marine sediments. Based upon the USBR classification, about
70% of the land is classified as Classes I and II; about 25%, Class III; and
the remainder 5%, Classes IV and V. Soils are sands and loamy sands (24%),
sandy loams and loams (40%), silt loams (28%), and clay loams and clays (8%).
Topography is quite flat, except for some scattered dunes, with slopes
from 0.3 to 0.5 m/km in the north-south direction and 0.3 m/km across the
valley and away from the Piura River. Elevation above sea level ranges from
24 m at the city of Piura to 3 m at Sechura.  The Piura riverbed is slightly
higher than the valley and does not have an open outlet to the sea (it ends
in the Laguna Ramon).  As a result, drainage is deficient and percolation
of irrigation water has led to high groundwater levels:  less than 1 meter
below surface over about 25% of the project area and less than 2 meters
below surface over about 60% during the main irrigation months.



-9 -
2.06      The combination of deficient drainage, low rainfall, high evaporation
and shortage of irrigation water in the past has resulted in salt accumulation
over the entire project area. About 27,400 ha (78% of the project area) are
affected by salinity and the remaining 7,300 ha (22% of the project area) are
highly salinized and out of production. However, with water now available from
the Poechos reservoir, the non-clay saline soils can be reclaimed by leaching
if better drainage is provided.
2.07      Peak erratic high discharges of the Piura River spill over the
perched riverbed, flooding the flat project area at intervals of between six
and 10 years. To prevent the floods, 12.3 km of protection dikes have been
built, but additional ones would be required to protect the works and produc-
tion to be developed under the proposed project.
Existing Infrastructure
2.08      About 31,900 ha in the lower Piura Valley are at present dominated
by a series of irrigation subsystems, each with its own intake in the Piura
River, constructed early in this century by former landowners of the then-
existing large farms. The overall system comprises 276 km of canals and is
in poor operating condition. At the intakes, river water is raised by
temporary weirs, which are washed out once or twice a year by high flows.
Canal gradients are low and their conveyance capacity is reduced as a result
of inadequate maintenance. Because of this, water flow is slow, making timely
irrigation impossible: it is estimated that, in about 70% of the area, inter-
vals between irrigations are 25% longer than necessary, which adversely affects
crop development and production. Another effect of low gradients is that the
water head is often insufficient to irrigate by gravity, making pumping from
the canals necessary; about 9,400 ha are at present served by a combination
of gravity and pumping. Low conveyance efficiencies cause water losses of
an estimated 300 Mm3 per year, further raising already high groundwater levels.
In addition to surface irrigation, there are in the valley 87 deep wells,
which, with a 3.2 m3/sec-installed capacity, provide supplementary water to
some farms in dry years.
2.09      The Government completed construction of two main collector drains,
Sechura (67 km), discharging directly into the sea, and DS 13.04 (49 km), and a
network of 338 km of secondary open drains in 1978. The drains are capable of
evacuating all percolated water from irrigation but require a network of
collector and field drains to feed them. Maintenance of the drains has so far
been inadequate and their water carrying capacity is being reduced by aquatic
vegetation and sand from moving dunes.
Land Use
2.10      Of the 34,700 ha of net cultivable land in the project area, only
some 27,400 ha are now under cultivation with a cropping intensity of 106%.
Long staple, high quality Pima cotton is the major crop, covering 21,000 ha;
grains (corn, sorghum and some rice) occupy about 3,300 ha, and pasture and
subsistence crops cover 4,700 ha. Due to the poor condition of irrigation



- 10 -
infrastructure, inadequate technical assistance and reduced production credit,
average yields per hectare are low:  1.5 tons for cotton, 2.0 for corn, and
2.8 for sorghum.  Livestock consists of some 3,600 dairy cows, about 50% of
which belong to small farmers, and a large goat population belonging to small
farmers and landless peasants.
Population and Employment
2.11      Population in the department of Piura is about 1 million, of which
some 360,000 live in the city of Piura and about 120,000 in the project area.
Of the latter, about 70,000 live in the towns of Catacaos (30,000), La Union
(25,000) and Sechura (15,000), while the remaining 50,000 are on farms or
in small villages. Population growth is estimated at 2.5%. About 12,700
families, with an estimated active population of 2.5 persons per family,
derive their income from agriculture; of these, 11,800 own land and the
other 900 are laborers.
2.12      Employment varies according to land tenure.  Members of the agrarian
production cooperatives are permanently employed and are paid minimum wages.
Minifundistas, 1/ however, with farms averaging 1.8 ha, need to use only about
20% of their potential 6.7 million man-days in labor on their own farms and,
therefore, have to seek employment for the remaining 5.4 million man-days off
the farm. As only some 10% can be absorbed in agriculture by the cooperatives
and larger farmers and an estimated 40% in other sectors in the area, seasonal
unemployment is a problem.
2.13      Annual income per family is estimated to be Si. 367,700 (US$1,784)
for cooperative members, almost all of it from on-farm work, and S/. 260,800
(US$1,272) for minifundistas; of the latter's income, about S/. 150,000
(US$732) is provided by off-farm employment.
Land Tenure and Farmer Organizations
2.14      Land reform was carried out in the project area in the early 1970s.
Farms over 50 ha, covering about 57.9% of the project area were expropriated
and converted into agrarian reform enterprises, mainly Agrarian Production
Cooperatives (CAPs). The present land tenure situation is as follows:
Average Area
Category                Farm Size   Area            Families          per Family
(ha)     (ha)    (%)    (No.)       (%)
Agrarian production
cooperatives                   880-1,820  17,450   50.3   2,790        23.7       6.25
Communal cooperatives              n.a.       2,200    6.3   1,230       10.4       1.80
Peasant groups                     n.a.         450    1.3       170      1.4       2.66
Minifundistas                      0-5       13,000   37.5   7,500       63.6       1.73
Small farmers                      5-15         680    1.9       80       0.7       8.50
Medium-size farmers               15-50         920    2.7        30      0.2      30.70
34,700  100.0  11,800   100.0         2.94
1/   Minifundista:  Farmers who have such small areas for cropping that income
derived from farming is equal to or less than minimum consumption levels.



- 11 -
2.15      The 12 CAPs in the project area have overcome the critical period of
establishment and reached a reasonable level of organization. They all farm
the land collectively, and, as required by law, have their own technical
managers who are helping them to improve farm management, agricultural prac-
tices, and overall performance. As a result, their financial situation is
sound and none of them had in arrears debts with BAP at the end of 1978.
Members of communal cooperatives and peasant groups, on the other hand, farm
the land individually. These farmers as well as the minifundistas, altogether
occupying 45% of the area, have little access to agricultural services and are
not organized for production, constituting, therefore, the proposed project's
main target population. 1/
Agricultural Services
2.16      Extension.  The "Agrarian Zone" in Piura, the regional office of the
MAA, has four agriculturalists and three medium-level technicians who advise
farmers on production techniques for cotton and grains in the project area.
The Zona Agraria technicians deal almost exclusively with cooperatives, while
small private farmers have practically no access to them. Also, the Cotton
Development Foundation (FUNDEAL) gives limited assistance, mainly in
phytosanitary control, providing three agronomists for the entire Chira-Piura
region. In addition, CENCIRA has a regional office in Piura which provides
audio visual extension programs in agriculture. In general, existing exten-
sion services are not well coordinated, reach only a small percentage of
farmers, and are inadequately staffed.
2.17      Research.  Isolated research efforts are undertaken by a number of
entities. CRIA-II (para 1.23), with its headquarters in Chiclayo, conducts
'work on adaptation of varieties and development of technological packages
for cotton and rice at its Chira station. DEPECHP, partly through agreements
with the National University of Piura (UNP), has been carrying out field experi-
ments and research on drainage and salinity in the Montegrande and Pedregal
pilot areas. FUNDEAL, which receives its budgetary funds from a special tax
paid by the producers, 2/ provides financial assistance to CRIA in its cotton-
related work. In general, production-oriented research is weak as is the
link between research and extension.
2.18      Agricultural Credit.  BAP (para 1.24) provides 95% of the institu-
tional credit for agriculture in the project area. About 96% of the resources
are devoted to short-term production credit, mainly for cotton. Of the total
about 80% goes to the cooperatives, 15% to medium-size farmers and only 5% to
small farmers and minifundistas. Recently, long-term funds for farm investment
and machinery have been made available to cooperatives from an IDB loan, which
has nationwide coverage. Development of the project area would require addi-
tional financial resources for short-term production credit and long-term
on-farm investment credit, mainly for small farmers.
1/   The term "minifundistas" will henceforth be meant to include members
of communal cooperatives and of peasant groups.
2/   The equivalent of US$1 per bale of cotton weighing 217 kg.



- 12 -
2.19      BAP operates in the area through its Piura branch office, which has
a staff of 15 professionals and 45 auxiliaries and an agency in La UIion T-7th
four professionals and seven auxiliaries. These offices, with a moderate
increase in staff and technical support from DEPECHP (para 4.05), would be
able to handle the proposed project's incremental credit requirements.
Marketing
2.20      ENCI has the monopoly for distributing inputs and marketing of
major commodities, including cotton. It operates in the project area through
an agency in Piura and licensed agents in Catacaos, Castilla and La Union.
Cotton ginning is carried out by five privately owned gins that have a combined
ginning capacity of 6 m tons/hour and 7,000 m tons of storage. EPSA, with
storage capacity of 5,000 m tons, markets rice and regulates grain prices.
Since rice production in the lower Piura is marginal, the milling facilities,
which are private, are located in the Chira Valley, mainly at Sullana, some
70 km north of Piura. With moderate expansion of their working shifts, the
existing marketing facilities would be capable of handling expected incremental
production generated by the project.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.01      The International Engineering Co. (IECO), USA, with Bank finance
(Loan 418-PE), carried out a feasibility study of the Chira-Piura Valleys in
1968, the outcome of which was a plan to improve water availability to the
lower Piura Valley and to rehabilitate the Chira and lower Piura irrigation
schemes. The first stage of the plan was construction of the Poechos dam,
the Chira-Piura diversion canal and the main and secondary drainage networks
of the lower Piura Valley (paras 2.02 and 2.09). The proposed project would
be the second stage of the plan and would consist of the rehabilitation of
irrigation works and reclamation of salinized lands in the lower Piura Valley.
Feasibility studies of the project were prepared by the consortium, Chira-Piura
Consultants' Association (ACCHP), assisted by the FAO-IBRD Cooperative Program.
Bank missions visited Peru to appraise the project in November 1978 and
February 1979.
Project Description
3.02      The objective of the proposed project would be to increase agricul-
tural production and productivity on 34,700 ha and raise the incomes of about
11,800 cooperative members and smallholder families. This would be accomp-
lished through rehabilitation of irrigation facilities, completion of drainage
networks, reclamation of saline soils, protection against floods and provision
of technical assistance and equipment (see IBRD Map No. 14159).



- 13 -
3.03      The project would consist of:
(a) irrigation works, including (i) construction of a diversion dam
on the Piura River; (ii) construction and lining of a main
irrigation canal 40 km long; (iii) rehabilitation and lining
of 112.1 km of secondary and 77.9 km of tertiary canals and
rehabilitation of 1,170 km of lateral and sublateral canals;
(iv) construction of administrative buildings for the
irrigation district; and (v) consulting services for engineering
and supervision of these works;
(b) drainage works, including construction of 15 km of main drains,
415 km of collector drains and 1,070 km of field drains;
(c) flood protection works, including improvement of 12.3 km of
flood protection dikes, construction of 54.1 km of new dikes
along both banks of the Piura River, and realignment of some
stretches of the river;
(d) development credit for land levelling, irrigation ditches,
soil leaching and improvements and other on-farm investments;
(e) equipment;
(f) technical services, including (i) strengthening of the agricultural
extension service, with special emphasis on assistance to small-
holders; (ii) establishment of a land reclamation service; and
(iii) training of Peruvian technicians abroad; and
(g) consultant services to (i) assist the project executing authority
in project implementation; and (ii) carry out feasibility studies
for subsequent rehabilitation projects.
Detailed Features
3.04      Irrigation Works.  A diversion dam and main irrigation canal would
be constructed to replace the Piura River as a water carrier and, therefore,
make construction of provisional weirs and pumping unnecessary for most of the
project area.  Sand traps would be built at the offtake of the main canals to
remove silt during high river flows. Ninety percent of secondary and tertiary
canals would be totally reconstructed and, in general, would follow existing
alignments but would be elevated to provide sufficient water-head. Unlined
lateral and sublateral canals would be rehabilitated or constructed on about
50% of the cooperatives' land (8,730 ha) and on practically the entire small
farmer area (17,200 ha). The embankments of the main and secondary canals
would double for service roads.
3.05      The project would also finance construction of 2,900 m2 of buildings
to serve as headquarters for the irrigation district and for the agricultural
extension and land reclamation services.



- 14 -
3.06      Flood Protection Works.  Existing dikes would be improved and new
ones would be constructed to confine the Piura River between two embankments,
500 to 600 m apart, running from Puente Piura to Laguna Ramon (24.4 km) along
the right bank and from Puente Piura to Ventura (26.5 km) along the left bank.
Dikes would be designed to protect against maximum peak discharges occurring
once every 25 years.
3.07      Drainage Works.  Fifteen km of main drains and a network of collec-
tor drains would be built to complete the basic drainage network for the
34,700-ha project area. Main drains would be 3 m deep and would be built in a
small part of the area not currently served by existing drains.   Collector
drains would be open, 2 to 2.2 m deep and spaced between 400 to 600 m over all
the project area. Field drains would be mostly tile pipes of 6-inch diameter
buried about 1.5 m deep. If economically and technically feasible, plastic
pipes may be used instead of tile.
3.08      On-farm Investments - Development Credit.  Land levelling and con-
struction of irrigation ditches would be carried out on most small farmers'
and minifundio land (15,600 ha) and on about 5,270 ha of land held by medium-
size farmers and cooperatives; soils would be leached in the entire project
area and gypsum would be applied on some 1,000 ha of alkali soils. 1/ Other
investments would include farm constructions and dairy livestock for selected
small farmers on a trial basis. Up to 90% of on-farm investments would be
financed under the project through long-term development credit channelled
through BAP (para 4.11).
3.09      Equipment.  The project would make funds available for purchase of
tilelayer machines, maintenance equipment, vehicles for the use of the land
reclamation and extension services, a laboratory for soil and water analysis,
and topographical and office equipment (Annex 1, Tables 3, 4 and 5).
3.10      Technical Services.  The project would provide for:
(a) salaries of incremental agricultural extension service staff
and their operating expenses (10 professionals, 34 medium-level
technicians and 10 clerical staff) (para 4.08);
(b) salaries for staff of the land reclamation service and their
operating expenses (12 professionals, 35 medium-level technicians,
clerical staff and laborers) (para 4.03); and
(c) short courses and field training assignments of up to six months
abroad in irrigation, drainage, land reclamation, operation and
maintenance, farm management and other project-related matters
for MAA technicians. The project would provide funds for travel
expenses, tuition and living allowances.
3.11      Consultants' Services.  The project would include:
(a)  seventy-five man-months of individual consultants to assist the
executing agency in the implementation of the various project
components; and
1/   Gypsum requirements would be estimated based on laboratory procedures
agreed upon at appraisal.



- 15 -
(b) consulting services for basic and feasibility studies for a
third irrigation rehabilitation project.
Status of Project Preparation
3.12      ENERGOPROJEKT prepared preliminary designs and will complete by
the end of March 1980 final designs for the diversion dam, main irrigation
canal and flood protection works. ACCHP prepared preliminary designs for the
remaining irrigation and drainage works, which are sound. Final designs
would be completed by the end of 1980. Designs for field drains and farm
works would be done during the project implementation period as land is being
incorporated. The Bank would review and comment on final designs of all
project works.
Water Supply and Demand
3.13      The project would derive its water from the Poechos reservoir, the
Piura River and the underground aquifer. Annual flows range from 1,200 to
8,000 Mm3 in the Chira River and from 50 to 3,200 Mm3 in the Piura River.
Existing wells yield a maximum of only 40 Mm3/year. Irrigation water require-
ments, calculated with the Blaney-Criddle formula, disregarding rainfall
and assuming conveyance, field and overall efficiencies of 80%, 60% and 50%,
respectively, are estimated at 662 Mm3 (Annex 1, Table 6). Other demands from
Poechos considered in the water balance are: Ecuadorian water rights upstream
of the dam (181 Mm3) irrigation of the Chira Valley (1,109.3 Mm3) and the
middle Piura Valley (723.9 Mm3), municipal supply (71.6 Mm3) and a future
industrial complex at Bayovar (73.8 Mm3). Future rehabilitation of the Chira
Valley irrigation system would bring about savings of about 300 Mm3/year.
3.14      Consultants analyzed the water balance using a model, which, based
upon 39 years of hydrological records, simulated operation of the Poechos
reservoir and of the overall Chira-Piura system for a 25-year period, disre-
garding future savings in the Chira Valley. The model and the input data used
adequately covers the cyclical drought periods and provides reasonable infor-
mation to judge the project's water balance. The results of the analysis,
presented in Annex 1, Table 7, show that, for the main season, over 25 years,
demand would be fully satisfied in 18 years (72%); moderate shortages (between
13 and 37%) would occur in six years (24%) and a serious shortage in one year
(4%).  For the second season, out of 25 years, demand would be fully satisfied
in 13 years (52%); there would be shortages of between 20% and 50% in four
years and no water would be available in eight years (32%).  According to
these results in the dry years, the area could be fully cultivated only during
the main season with yield reductions, and the area cropped would have to be
reduced in the second season in proportion to water availability. These
constraints have been taken into account in estimating average yields and
cropping intensity projections in the economic analysis (para 6.02).



- 16 -
Water Quality
3.15       The quality of water to be used in the project is excellent for
irrigation. Weighted salinity of the Poechos and Piura River water will
not exceed 325 ppm. The water contains no toxic or harmful elements, and
there is no evidence of water-borne diseases.
International Waters
3.16       The Chira-Piura River has its head waters in Ecuadorian territory
(Catamayo River). In 1971, Peru and Ecuador signed an international agreement
for joint development of the Puyango-Tumbes and Catamayo-Chira River basins.
The Poechos dam, the main water source for the project, was constructed and
operates under the framework of this agreement. Water in the reservoir is now
maintained at a level that does not cause flooding in Ecuadorian territory and
the reservoir will be capable of continuing to supply existing water require-
ments in the valley without raising the water level. Thus the issues involved
will continue to be covered by appropriate arrangements between the two coun-
tries.
Implementation Schedule
3.17       The project would be implemented over a period of five years.
Construction of the diversion dam, main irrigation canal and flood protection
works would begin in early 1980 and would take about three years. Construc-
tion of the remaining civil and on-farm works would begin in mid-1980 and
would take until the end of 1984. Supporting services would be provided
during the whole five-year implementation period beginning in early 1980.
For details, see Chart 20376.
Cost Estimates
3.18       Total project costs amount to US$178.8 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$102.5 million, or 58%. Base costs, totalling US$124.7
million, are expressed in February 1979 prices. For the main irrigation and
flood control works, they are based upon updated unit costs incurred by
ENERGOPROJEKT in a previous contract in the area; for other works, they are
based upon a cost analysis carried out by ACCHP and updated by DEPECHP.
Cost of civil works to be carried out by contractors includes 3% tax amounting
to US$1.4 million. Costs of imported equipment are CIF Paita, excluding import
taxes which Government agencies do not pay. Average consulting fees were
estimated at US$8,000 per man-month including: salaries, travel and living
expenses, and overhead. Physical contingencies, estimated at 15% for all
civil engineering works and 10% for equipment, salaries and other operational
expenses, total US$18.5 million. Price contingencies, amounting to US$35.6
million, were calculated at 6% per year for equipment and 7% per year for
civil works. It has been assumed that deviations between international and
internal inflation would be compensated for by changes in the exchange rate
as has been the Government's policy in the past few years. Project costs are
detailed in Annex 1, Table 8 and summarized below. Annex 1, Table 9 shows
the expected schedule of expenditures.



- 17 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
S/. Million -----   -----US$ Million-----            %
Main Irrigation and Flood
Control Works               5,057   8,382  13,439    24.7    40.9    65.6         62
Irrigation and Drainage
Networks                    4,656   4,336   8,992    22.7    21.2    43.9         49
On-farm Investments              632     976   1,608      3.1      4.7     7.8      61
Equipment                          -     781      781       -      3.8     3.8      100
Technical Services and
Consultants                   554      176     730      2.7     0.9      3.6      20
Total Base Cost              10,900  14,651  25,551    53.2    71.5   124.7         58
Physical Contingencies         1,578   2,179   3,757      7.9    10.6    18.5       58
Price Contingencies                -       -        -    15.1    20.5    35.6       58
Total Project Cost                                       76.2   102.6   178.8
Financing
3.19      Project investments would be financed by ENERGOPROJEKT, the Govern-
ment, the beneficiaries and the Bank. ENERGOPROJEKT would finance 50% of the
construction and design costs of main irrigation and flood control works, esti-
mated at US$46.4 million equivalent, including contingencies. The Bank loan of
US$56.0 million equivalent, or 31.3% of the total project cost, would cover the
full foreign exchange cost (US$46.0 million) and US$10.0 million of the local
currency cost of the remaining investments. The Government, through annual
budgetary allocations, would provide counterpart funds equivalent to US$74.5
million, or 41.6%, and the beneficiaries would contribute US$1.9 million, or
1.1%, of the total project cost. The proposed financing plan is shown in
Annex 1, Table 10 and summarized below:
ENERGOPROJEKT  Government 1/    Bank            Total
Item                   US$M     %      US$M     %    US$M      %    US$M   _%
Main Irrigation and
Flood Control Works         32.8   50.0    32.8   50.0                    65.6   37.0
Irrigation and
Drainage Networks                           16.9   38.5   27.0   61.5   43.9   24.2
On-farm Investments                            2.8   35.4    5.1   64.6    7.8    4.4
Equipment                                                     3.8  100.0    3.8    2.1
Technical Services and
Consultants                                  0.7   27.8    2.8   72.2    3.6    2.0
Contingencies                 13.6   25.1    23.2   42.9   17.3   32.0   54.1   30.3
TOTAL                         46.4   26.0    76.4   42.7   56.0   31.3  178.8  100.0
1/   Includes about a US$1.9 million contribution of the beneficiaries for con-
struction of field drains and on-farm investments.



- 18 -
3.20      The Bank loan would be made to the Government of Peru for 17 years,
including four years' grace. Government would transfer to BAP US$5.9 million
of the proceeds of the Bank loan and US$2.5 million of its own allocation to
the project to enable BAP to finance the medium- and long-term credit require-
ments for on-farm investments. The transfer would be made to BAP in the form
of an increase of its capital. The Government and ENERGOPROJEKT have signed
the financing agreement and completed negotiation of the construction contract.
Execution of the construction contract will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Procurement
3.21      ENERGOPROJEKT, under special arrangements with the Government, would
carry out construction of the works it finances (diversion dam, main irrigation
canal and flood protection works) estimated at US$92.8 million, inclusive of
physical and price contingencies. Contracts for construction of secondary and
tertiary lined canals and main and complementary drains, totalling US$40.4
million, would be let through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Owing to the scope of the works involved,
prequalification of contractors is recommended for ICB. Maintenance equipment
totalling US$4.7 million, would also be procured under ICB; for bid evaluation,
a 15% margin of preference or the prevailing custom duties, if lower, would be
allowed for equipment produced in Peru. Contracts for construction of unlined
lateral and sublateral canals and buildings, totalling US$6.7 million, would
be let following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures in accordance with
Bank guidelines. LCB is recommended in this case because lateral and sublateral
canals would be constructed under labor-intensive methods. Pipes for field
drains, totalling US$3.3 million, would be locally produced and therefore
procured through LCB. Foreign contractors and suppliers would not be precluded
from participating in LCB. Construction of field drains (supply of pipes
excluded), totalling US$3.4 million, would need to be carried out at irregular
intervals as the project advances and therefore would be undertaken by force
account or negotiated contracts. On-farm works financed through development
credit and totalling US$11.4 million would be done under negotiated contracts
between farmers and local contractors. Vehicles and other equipment, totalling
US$0.60 million, would be purchased in small amounts and, therefore, procured
under LCB.
3.22      Peruvian law requires that foreign contractors enter into joint
ventures with local contractors, which is inconsistent with the Bank procure-
ment guidelines, but this requirement has been waived for construction contracts
to be financed by the Bank under the project.



- 19 -
Disbursement
3.23      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
Amount of
Category                     Item                               Disbursements
(US$ Million)
I    Civil works, engineering and supervision:
65% of total cost                                         29.6
II    Subloans made by BAP to finance on-farm
investments:  70% of total amount of subloans              5.9
III    Equipment and pipes:  100% of foreign expenditures
of internationally procured items or 80% of
locally procured items                                     5.6
IV    Salaries of incremental staff and operating expenses
of the land reclamation and agricultural extension
services:  65% of total cost                               2.1
V    Consultant services, other than engineering and super-
vision, and training program:  100% of total cost          0.9
VI    Unallocated                                                11.9
TOTAL LOAN                                                56.0
Disbursements would be made against normal documentation except for works
carried out by force account, subloans made by BAP, and salaries and operating
expenses of the extension and land reclamation services, which would be dis-
bursed against statements of expenditures duly certified by the implementing
agency. Statements of expenditures would be audited as indicated in paragraph
4.14. Supporting documentation for statements of expenditure would not be
submitted to the Bank but would be retained by the executing agencies for
inspection by Bank missions. Disbursement applications based on statements of
expenditures would be accompanied by an annex showing a breakdown of (a) sala-
ries and wages of incremental staff based on positions incremental to the
staff list on June 30, 1979; (b) materials (construction materials, agricul-
tural inputs, office supplies, gasoline, oil and such); (c) general services
(third-party payments covering short-term contracts and such; and (d) various
operating expenses. The Bank loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of
five years according to the schedule of disbursement shown in Annex 1, Table 11.



- 20-
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Executing Agency
4.01      MAA would have overall responsibility for the project, while DEPECHP,
a special project of MAA (para 1.21) with headquarters in Piura, would be
directly responsible for project implementation. The latter would supervise,
with the help of consultants, design and construction of the irrigation and
drainage works and carry out all force account works. It would also assume
responsibility for agricultural extension, land reclamation and maintenance of
the irrigation and drainage systems in the project area. Operation of these
systems would continue to be the responsibility of the Agrarian Zone through
the Irrigation District, which the Government would strengthen and provide
with all necessary funds and facilities as required. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations. Other agencies participating in the
project would be DEPERTC, BAP, the Agrarian Zone of Piura, CENCIRA and INIA
(paras 1.19 to 1.23 and Chart 20375).
Engineering and Construction of Civil Works
4.02      The Studies and Works Directorate (DEO) of DEPECHP would have overall
responsibility for design and construction of civil works. ENERGOPROJEKT,
under the supervision of DEO, would make final designs and construct the diver-
sion dam, main irrigation canal and flood protection works. Consultants under
DEO would prepare final designs for the remaining civil works and would super-
vise construction contracts of all project works. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that DEPECHP would employ consultants, acceptable to the Bank,
to make final designs of Bank-financed works and to supervise construction of
all project works. Government policy calls for increasing use of manual labor
in construction to ease unemployment in rural areas. Therefore, the project
would encourage construction contractors to use labor-intensive methods for
excavating drains and lateral and sublateral canals, provided that such methods
were economically competitive and the implementation schedule would not be
adversely affected.
Land Reclamation, Drainage and On-farm Works
4.03      The Land Reclamation Directorate (DRT) of DEPECHP would, assisted
by DEPERTC, operate the land reclamation service to be established under the
project. The service would: (a) monitor the effect of drainage on the water
table; (b) design and construct field drains; and (c) design and supervise
construction of on-farm development works. The service would be staffed by
Peruvian technicians assisted by individual consultants in irrigation, drainage
and land reclamation (para 4.12) and would work in close collaboration with
DEPERTC. This collaboration would include exchange of technical staff,
consultation on drainage and land reclamation problems, selection of consul-
tants and training of technical staff.
4.04      Monitoring of the watertable and of the effectiveness of the drainage
network would be done by: (a) reconditioning and completing the existing
network of observation wells and making monthly observations of the ground-
water depth; and (b) measuring drainage water flow and quality at selected
points of the drainage system. Based upon the results of these observations



- 21 -
and permeability tests, DRT would decide on the spacing and design and would
construct field drains by force account; where tile drainage is necessary, DRT
would install pipes with a tilelayer machine which would be purchased under
the project. The farmers under the supervision of DRT would fill in the
trenches at their own expense. The pipes would very likely be clay and
locally produced. However, technical and economical feasibility of importing
plastic pipes would be explored. DRT would also prepare farm works designs and
land reclamation plans which the farmers would present to BAP for financing
(para 4.11). Upon procurement of finance, DRT would assist the farmers in
contracting and supervising construction of the works.
Operation and Maintenance
4.05      The Operation and Maintenance Directorate (DOM) of DEPECHP operates
the Poechos reservoir, the Chira-Piura canal and the existing drainage network
of the project. Under the project, DEPECHP would also assume responsibility
for maintenance of the project irrigation and drainage systems. The Agrarian
Zone would continue to operate the irrigation works through the irrigation
district authority, prepare cropping plans with the active participation of
the users' associations and of the irrigators' commissions and decide on
water allocations accordingly.
4.06      Assurances were obtained that:  (i) not later than June 30, 1980,
DEPECHP, assisted by consultants, would prepare and put into implementation
a maintenance plan for the irrigation and drainage network acceptable to the
Bank. The plan would give special attention to removing weeds from the drains
and to solving the sand dunes problem; and (ii) the diversion dam and dikes
included in the project as well as the existing Poechos dam would be periodically
inspected and maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices.
Agricultural Extension and Research
4.07      The Agriculture and Livestock Directorate (DDA) of DEPECHP would be
responsible for extension services under the general guidance of the Agrarian
Zone. DDA would primarily assist small farmers but would also provide guidance
to the managerial and technical staff of the cooperatives. Jointly with DRT,
it would also assist the farmers in preparing farm development plans and in
presenting corresponding credit applications to BAP, and monitor and evaluate
the impact of the project on agricultural production (para 4.13).
4.08      The extension service would have its headquarters in the town of
La Union and its procedures would be similar to the training and visit system 1/
which has been supported in a number of Bank-financed projects. It would
be headed by a senior agriculturalist, assisted by four technicians, who would
provide guidance to the field offices and serve as a link with INIA, CENCIRA
and FUNDEAL. DDA would reach small farmers by establishing five agencies,
1/   Agricultural Extension:  The training and visit system, by D. Benor and
J.Q. Harrison, May 1977.



- 22 -
each covering about 2,000 farmers, or 3,400 ha. Each agency would be staffed
with an agronomist and six medium-level technicians, five agriculturalists and
one livestock specialist. The service to the 12 associative enterprises
which have professional-level managers would be provided by four experienced
agriculturalists.
4.09      CENCIRA, under an operational agreement with DEPECHP, would establish
a program to train project extension agents. CENCIRA, which has long expe-
rience in this field, would develop and implement the training program in
collaboration with the General Directorate of Agriculture and Livestock of
MAA, and INIA, FUNDEAL, UNP and DEPECHP. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the above-mentioned agreement would be signed and that the
Government would adequately fund CENCIRA to implement it.
4.10      INIA, under operational agreement with DEPECHP, would intensify its
applied research in the Chira research station to develop and improve production
technical packages for the several project crops and to assist the project in
irrigation and drainage research. The extension service would test on a
commercial scale the technological packages developed by INIA and disseminate
them to the farmers when adopted. DEPECHP would retain visiting scientists to
help INIA to design and conduct its work at the Chira station, and the project
would provide the funds to finance them (para 4.12). At negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that the above-mentioned agreement would be signed and
that the Government would adequately fund INIA to implement it.
Development Credit
4.11      On-farm investments to be carried out under the project (para 3.08)
would be financed by medium- and long-term subloans to individual farmers,
groups of farmers or associative enterprises. BAP would grant subloans on
the basis of development plans prepared by DEPECHP (para 4.04) for up to 90%
of the value of the investment plan with the remainder to be contributed by
the beneficiaries. The repayment terms of the subloans would be in accordance
with the financial situation of the farmers/enterprises receiving credit;
subloans would be for periods of up to 15 years, consistent with the antici-
pated calendar for attaining full productivity increases from the investments
and would include grace periods of up to five years for the repayment of
principal. The annual interest rate for these loans would be equal to the one
BAP charges for loans for capital investments (Prestamos de Capitalizacion),
currently 31% plus 2% commission charge: assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would periodically revise the lending rates
in consultation with the Bank to take account of relevant changes in the rate
of inflation and in the capital market conditions; and that, except as the
Bank and the Government otherwise agree, the lending rate would not be lower
than 33% per year, commissions included. While this lending rate is at
present negative in real terms, it is expected that, during the application
of the current Government economic recovery program, it would be raised to
positive levels or close to them during the period of project implementation.
Inflation has been 75% in 1978, and it is projected to be about 60% and 40% in
1979, and 1980, respectively. BAP with its own resources, would also provide
incremental short-term production credit to all project beneficiaries. MAA
would enter into a legally binding agreement with BAP, acceptable to the Bank,



- 23 -
for provision of short-term production credit and for channelling the project
funds for on-farm investments to make subloans to farmers/enterprises on terms
and conditions as set out in this paragraph. The signing of the agreement
would he a condition of loan effectiveness.
Consultants' Services
4.12      In addition to the consultants mentioned in paragraph 4.02, DEPECHP
would retain individual consultants, with qualifications and under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, to: (a) assist DRT in planning, designing,
and constructing field drains and on-farm development works and monitoring
the effects of the drainage system (36 man-months) (para 4.03); (b) assist
DOM in developing a plan for optimal utilization of the Chira-Piura water
resources and defining operating rules for the Poechos reservoir (six man-
months); (c) assist DOM in developing and putting into operation a maintenance
plan for the irrigation and drainage network (six man-months) (para 4.06);
and (d) assist DDA in establishing the extension service and developing crop
production packages (27 man-months). DEPECHP, in collaboration with DEPERTC,
would also retain a consulting firm to carry out feasibility studies for the
rehabilitation of the Chira Valley irrigation system. Terms of reference for
these studies, satisfactory to the Bank, would be prepared not later than
December 31, 1980. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.13      DEPECHP would consistently monitor and evaluate the impact of the
project on groundwater levels, soil salinity, land reclamation, cropped areas,
irrigation and drainage practices, use of agricultural inputs, yields, produc-
tion, prices, marketing and income. Data collected by DRT and DDA would be
integrated and analyzed by the Programming Office of DEPECHP, which would
also evaluate the overall impact of the project. This office would submit
periodical progress reports of the project and project completion report
according to Bank guidelines. To undertake this task, the Programming Office
would be staffed with at least three additional professionals with relevant
experience in the field. Assurances were obtained that DEPECHP would:
(a) monitor and evaluate the impact of the project; (b) submit to the Bank
progress reports; and (c) prepare a project completion report for submission
to the Bank no later than six months after the closing date.
Accounts and Audits
4,14      DEPECHP would maintain separate accounts which would record expendi-
tures made under the different project categories. BAP would also maintain
separate accounts of subloans for investments in on-farm works. Assurances
were obtained that (a) project expenditures made by DEPECHP would be verified
and controlled in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied; (b) such audit reports would include a separate opinion as to
whether the procedures and controls relating to statements of expenditures
were properly prepared and in accordance with the legal project requirements;
(c) BAP's accounts of subloans to participating farm enterprises would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (d) MAA
would send to the Bank certified copies of each year's project accounts within
four months after the close of each financial year.



- 24 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, BENEFICIARIES AND COST RECOVERY
Future Land Use and Cropping Pattern - Yield, Production
5.01      With the project, the physical area under cultivation would increase
from 27,470 ha to 34,720 ha and cropping intensities from 106% to 135%. Thus,
the cropped area would increase from 29,100 ha to 47,000 ha at full development.
No basic changes are foreseen in the crops grown. Cotton is expected to
continue as the major crop, occupying 22,000 ha, while the area under grains
(corn, sorghum and rice) would go up from 3,285 ha to 18,400 ha and the area
under pulses, from 550 ha to 2,000 ha, mainly as a result of double cropping.
With better drainage, salinity control, timely and improved irrigation practices,
and agricultural services, projected yields are expected to rise from 50% to
120% above without project levels. In light of current farmer experience and
given that, under the project, farmers for the first time would have ready
access to essential inputs, full development credit and adequate technical
assistance, the above increases in productivity are considered reasonable
within a specified time frame of seven years. Furthermore, once the problem of
salinity has been resolved, growing conditions in the area for irrigated crops
are almost ideal, particularly with respect to light/temperature relations and
the absence of serious pests and diseases. Cropping patterns, yields and
production are summarized below and shown in more detail in Annex 1, Tables 12
and 13.
-----Without Project-----       ---With Project at Full Development---
Cropped                         Cropped                      Incremental
Area    Yield  Production    Area    Yield  Production  Production
Crop               ha     mt/ha   '000 tons       ha     mt/ha   '000 tons   '000 tons
Cotton            21,140   1.5        31.7       22,000   2.4       52.8         21.1
Corn               1,215   2.0         2.4        8,200   4.5       36.9         34.5
Sorghum            1,210   2.8         3.4        8,200   5.1       41.8         38.4
Rice                 860   4.0         3.4        2,000   6.0       12.0          8.6
Pulses               550   0.95        0.5        2,000   1.8        3.6          3.1
Garden Crops         680   6.0         4.1        1,500  12.0       18.0         13.9
Other Annuals      2,949   6.2        18.3        1,000  12.0       12.0         (6.3)
Green Fodder         485  65.0        31.5        2,100  80.0      168.0        136.5
Total Cropped
Area            29,089                         47,000
Physical Area
Cultivated      27,469                         34,720
Cropping
Intensity        106%                           135%



- 25 -
Market Prospects and Prices
5.02      No marketing problems are foreseen for the crops produced under the
project. Cotton has the advantage of being of the long staple Pima variety.
The only other countries that produce it are Egypt and Sudan, and the USA,
and it receives premium prices in the world market. Since annual incremental
production of cotton fiber resulting from the project (about 6,300 tons) would
be quite insignificant in terms of worldwide availabilities, it is not likely
to have an adverse impact on the world price; but it would make a significant
contribution to the Peruvian exports of cotton, which have been substantially
reduced from about 70,000 tons in 1966 to about 20,000 in 1978. Additional
corn, sorghum and rice production would permit a reduction of grain imports,
while increased production of vegetables would help satisfy the increasing
demand for such products in the cities near the project area. The additional
supply of alfalfa hay would be used by farmers raising feeder cattle, an
activity that is increasing in the Piura area and neighboring departments.
5.03      In accordance with Government policy, ENCI would be solely respon-
sible for marketing and exporting cotton, which would account for about 75%
of the total net value of production of the project at full development.
Existing private gins would be able to carry out ginning without having to
increase capacity (para 2.20) by merely extending the ginning season. ENCI
has gained expertise in dealing with cotton exports and has done good work
in collecting and grading samples of cotton as a basis for establishing the
price to be paid to growers. However, cotton growers complain of delays in
receiving their money, usually waiting about five months. As a result, some
small growers are forced to deal with intermediaries who pay cash but at much
lower rates. The Government is aware of the problem and has promised to try
to shorten the period of reimbursement by, among other things, providing
inputs in lieu of cash. However, further dialogue between the Bank and
the Government would be required to work out a workable solution to the
problem. EPSA would market all rice production, which would be milled
privately.
5.04      Current prevailing farmgate prices were used in the analysis of
farm models while international prices converted to farmgate level were used
in the economic analysis. World market prices were projected to increase
in the period 1979-90 at real annual rates of 2% for cotton, 1.3% for rice,
3.2% for maize and 2.7% for sorghum. These price increases are based on
the Bank's Commodities Division projections. Farmgate and economic prices are
shown in Annex 1, Table 14.
Beneficiaries
5.05      The proposed project would, through increased production, benefit
directly 11,800 families, mostly minifundistas and members of cooperatives
(para 2.14). It would also reduce farm underemployment by the creation of
about 1.4 million man-days of labor per year at full development (Annex 1,
Table 15). Family incomes have been analyzed with three farm models of
1.8 ha (minifundistas), 1,000 ha (cooperatives) and 15 ha (small- to medium-
size farmers). Physical and financial development of the models are presented
in Annex 1, Tables 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. According to the models, the bene-
ficiaries' farm income would develop as follows:



- 26 -
Small- and
Cooperative   Medium-size
Minifundistas       Members        Farmers  1/
Average Land per Family (ha)          1.80             6.25          15.00
Area Covered (ha)                   15,650           17,450          1,600
Number of Families                   8,900            2,790             110
Farm Income per Family
Before Project Charges (US$):
Without Project                 1,272            1,780          2,780
With Project at
Full Development              2,229            4,207          9,430
Water Charges
5.06      Although the water law states that beneficiaries should pay fully
for operation and maintenance of the irrigation works and a reasonable propor-
tion of the investments, only nominal O&M charges are actually imposed and
there are no cost recovery charges. However, it is currently MAA's policy to
enforce the law and to return the proceeds of O&M charges to the irrigation
districts. Therefore, assurances were obtained that the Government would:
(a) increase O&M water charges to a level of actual O&M costs; (b) no later
than December 31, 1983, return to the irrigation district the total amount of
O&M fees collected; (c) recover as much as possible of the investment costs,
in accordance with the farmers' payment capacity and in a period of not more
than 50 years; and (d) not later than December 31, 1982 and at least once every
two years thereafter: (i) review the level and structure of water charges taking
into account the effect of inflation and the ability of the farmers to pay;
and (ii) adjust the water charges accordingly.
5.07      In order to estimate future project charges and arrive at the rent
and cost recovery index, it has been assumed that (a) minifundistas would not
repay any capital costs because, even with the project, their incomes at full
development would be below the estimated US$2,792 relative poverty level per
family in Peru at that time; (b) cooperatives and medium-size farmers would
repay investment costs over a 50-year period without interest, which would
bring the total level of charges for these farm categories to about 10% of
their net value of production; and (c) the level of project charges would be
adjusted annually for all farmers to account for inflation. Expected operation
and maintenance costs are calculated in Annex 1, Table 21. The rent and cost
recovery indexes are summarized below and calculations presented in Table 22:
Small- and
Medium-size
Cooperatives    Farmers
Minifundistas   (1,000 ha)       (15 ha)  1/
Incremental annual project charges
at full development in 1979 prices:
O&M - US$/ha/year                        62.3            62.3          62.3
Capital Recovery - US$/ha/year              -            70.4          70.4
Rent Recovery Index                         26.6            50.3          55.6
Cost Recovery Index                         40.3            53.7          51.5
1/   About 80 families with holdings between 5 ha and 15 ha and 30 families
with holdings between 15 ha and 50 ha are expected to participate.



- 27 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Besef its
6.01      Execution of the project would bring about a significant increase
in agricultural production and improve living conditions for the beneficiaries.
Rehabilitation of the irrigation works and completion of the drainage network
would improve the production potential of 27,400 ha now suffering from salinity
and high watertables and would reclaim some additional 7,300 ha now out of
production altogether. Improved irrigation water distribution and management
and provision of agricultural extension and marketing services would further
lead to more intensive cultivation and production, particularly by the poorest
farmners in the project area (Annex 1, Table 23). Incremental production of
cotton would, at full development, increase agricultural exports by about
US$16.7 million, and export taxes would rise by about US$3.7 million per
year. In addition, increased production of grains would decrease imports by
abotut US$7.0 million per year. The project would also contribute significantly
to the consolidation of the agrarian reform process by: (a) improving organi-
zation of the existinig production cooperatives involving some 2,800 farmers
and 17,400 ha, and (b) providing access to the agricultural services and
incorporating in the economy some 8,900 minifundistas and members of Grupos
Campesinos holding 15,718 ha.
6.02      The economic rate of return of the project has been estimated at 15%
(Annex 1, Table 24) and was derived under the following assumptions: (a) agri-
cultural production was estimated based upon the incorporation of land and
yields projected in Tables 12 and 13 of Annex 1, with reductions in cropped
area and yields to account for dry years as projected in the water balance
(para 3.14); (b) economic prices for cotton, maize, sorghum and rice as
projected by the Bank were converted to farmgate level as specified in para-
graph 5.04; for other products, prevailing farmgate prices were used (Annex 1,
Table 14); (c) production costs were priced at local market prices (Annex 1,
Tables 16 and 17); (d) investment costs include all project works, equipment,
support and consulting services; (e) to reflect, underemployment in the area,
hired and family-supplied labor were shadow-priced at 70% of the financial
cost; and (f) a standard conversion factor of 0.87 was used to impute the
foreign exchange component of the project costs and the benefits from exported
(cotton) and imported substituting commodities (corn, sorghum and rice).
Risk and Sensitivity
6.03      Execution of the project does not present major risks.  DEPECHP has
good experience in constructing works of the type included in the project.
Additional irrigation water already available from Poechos insures sufficient
water for leaching saline lands and increasing cropping intensity. Farmers
have substantial experience in growing the project crops and are open to
advice from extension workers. The agrarian production cooperatives have
passed the critical stage of establishment and organization, and recent
performance is sound, making it likely that they would be responsive to
project objectives. Establishment of the land reclamation and extension



- 28 -
services and provision of short- and long-term credit should effectively help
to bring about agricultural production in minifundio areas. Possible risks
involved would be: (a) construction delays owing to difficulties in negotia-
ting rights-of-way with minifundistas, maintaining irrigation service during
construction, and concentration of activities in the area; and (b) failure .
the executing agency to offer adequate salaries to retain qualified staff for
the agricultural extension and land reclamation offices, which would seriously
impair delivery of services to farmers and therefore adversely affect expected
increases in productivity. During supervision, the Government and the Bank
should ensure that the project is adequately managed and funds are allocated
in a timely manner.
6.04      A sensitivity analysis was performed using the following situations
to determine which variables would be most crucial to the success of the
project:
(a)  Changes in Benefits and Cost Streams.  The expected economic rate
of return (ERR) would range between 10% and 15% under various
assumptions in which benefits and investment cost streams would
increase, be delayed, or go in opposite directions (benefits
decreased and investment costs increased). Also, a sensitivity test
was carried out to determine the impact of cotton prices on the ERR.
For details, see Annex 1, Table 25.
(b)  Switching Values.  The switching value test indicates how much
the particular value tested must be changed to cause the ERR to drop
below the estimated opportunity cost of capital in the country. The
results of this test show that project benefits can decrease by 17%,
or the capital cost increase by 23% or the operating costs by 156%
to yield an ERR of 12%, which is the estimated opportunity cost of
money in Peru (Annex 1, Table 25).
Environmental Impact
6.05      The project would not adversely affect the environment.  Reduction
of salinity and improved operation maintenance and irrigation practices would
in fact upgrade environmental conditions in the lower Piura Valley. There is
no evidence that drainage discharge into the ocean is in any way affecting
plant or animal life. Also, monitoring of the watertable would permit timely
action to prevent possible waterlogging in the future. There are no water-borne
diseases in the project area and none are expected to develop as a result of
project implementation.



- 29 -
VII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would:
(a)  cause MAA to: (i) make DEPECHP responsible for agricultural
extension, land reclamation and maintenance of the irrigation
and drainage systems in the project area; and (ii) strengthen
the Irrigation District of the Agrarian Zone and provide il with
the necessary funds and facilities to operate the irrigation and
drainage systems (para 4.01);
(b) cause DEPECHP to employ consultants, acceptable to the Bank,
to make final designs of Bank-financed works and to supervise
construction of all project works (para 4.02);
(c) insure that DEPECHP, would: (i) not later than June 30, 1980,
prepare and put into implementation a maintenance plan for
the irrigation and drainage works acceptable to the Bank;
the plan would give special attention to removing weeds from
the drains and to solving the sand dunes problem; and (ii) the
diversion dam and dikes included in the project as well as
the existing Poechos dam would be periodically inspected and
maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices
(para 4.06);
(d)  cause DEPECHP to enter into operational agreements with and
adequately fund: (i) CENCIRA to establish a program for
training of the extension service staff (para 4.09); and
(ii) INIA to develop production technological packages for
the several project crops and assist the project in irrigation
and drainage research (para 4.10);
(e) periodically revise the lending rate for subloans in consulta-
tion with the Bank to take account of relevant changes in the
rate of inflation, and that except as the Bank and the Government
otherwise agree, the lending rate would not be lower than 33%,
commission included (para 4.11);
(f) cause DEPECHP to retain consultants, under terms and conditions
and with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to assist it in:
(i) planning, designing, and constructing field drains and on-farm
development works, and monitoring the effects of the drainage
system; (ii) developing a plan for optimal utilization of the
Chira-Piura water resources and defining operating rules for the
Poechos reservoir; (iii) developing and putting into operation a
maintenance plan for the project area irrigation and drainage
network; (iv) establishing the extension service and developing
technical packages for crop production; and (v) carrying out feasi-
bility studies for the rehabilitation of the Chira Valley irrigation
system; teIis of reference satisfactory to the Bank would be
prepared for these studies before December 31, 1980 (para 4.12);



- 30 -
(g) cause DEPECHP to: (i) monitor and evaluate the impact of the
project; (ii) submit to the Bank progress reports; and (iii) prepare
a project completion report to be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the closing date (para 4.13); and
(h) ensure that: (i) project expenditures made by DEPECHP would
be verified and controlled in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied; (ii) such audit reports would
include a separate opinion as to whether the procedures and controls
relating to statement of expenditures were properly prepared and
in accordance with the legal project requirements; (iii) BAP's
accounts of subloans to participating farm enterprises would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and
(iv) MAA would send to the Bank certified copies of each year's
project accounts within four months after the close of each financial
year (para 4.14).
(i) ensure that: O&M water charges be increased to a level of actual
O&M costs; (b) no later than December 31, 1983, the total amount of
O&M fees collected be returned to the irrigation district; (c) as
much as possible of the investment costs be recovered, in accordance
with the farmers' payment capacity and in a period of not more than
50 years; and (d) not later than December 31, 1982, and at least
once every two years thereafter: (i) the level and structure of
water charges be reviewed taking into account the effect of inflation
and the ability of the farmers to pay; and (ii) the water charges be
adjusted accordingly (para 5.06).
7.02      A condition of loan effectiveness would be that (a) MAA and BAP
had signed an agreement for channelling project funds for on-farm investments
and for making subloans to farmers/enterprises on terms and conditions as set
out in paragraph 4.11; and (b) the Government and ENERGOPROJEKT had executed
the construction contract for the construction of the main irrigation and
flood control works.
7.03      With the above assurances and condition, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$56 million equivalent on standard terms
and conditions.
October 15, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Volume of Agricultural Production in Peru"/
1961 - 1978
Commodity                 Average   Average
1961-65   1968-72         1973        1974        1975         1976         1977        1978
------------------------------------ooo Metric Tons------------------------------
Wheat                        150          129         149          150         143         148          130           90
Rice, Paddy                  324         492          451         426          473         579          547         400
Corn                         490         588          616         600          625         700          720         550
Barley                       185         160          165         168          168         165          170          175
Millet                        25            8           8            8           8           10           8            8
Sorghum                        2           14          22          18           30          40           50          80
Beans, Dry                    39          48           37          35           36          36           38           40
Potatoes                   1,487       1,819        1,713       1,722        1,640       1,670        1,600       1,650
Cassava                      436         464          460         469          470         402          410         410
Sweet Potatoes               148         163          155         146          150         155          165          165
Sugarcane                  7,373       7,569       8,746        9,179       8,928        8,761       8,825        8,400
Tobacco                        3            3           4            5           5            5           3            3
Cotton                       140          86           84          88           73          57           58           74
Cotton Seed                  233         145          149         160          132         102          102          130
Coffee         2              48          58           60          54           54          60           62           66
Cattle ImportS-/              76          89           30           10          10           10           5            0
Beef and Veal                 91          94           85          95           91          84           85           83
Mutton and Lamb               38           33          34           36          33           35          33           34
Pork                          43          46           45           55          55           53          52           52
Wool, Greasy Basis            11           10           9            9           9            9           9            9
1/  Figures for 1976-78 are preliminary.                                                                                           P}.2
2/  In 1,000 Head                                                                                                                    j
Source USDA



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REiABILITATION PROJECr
Climatic Data -/
Annual
Temiperature (Co)               1          Feb        Mar      sQL        hy       _1=       Jutl      Au        :U        Oct       Nov       Oec       /verage
Average                     27.0        27.8      27.8      26.6      24.6     23.0      21.9       22_1      22.6     23.2      23.7       25.3       24.6
Maximum                     33.1       33.9       34.0      32.8      30.5     28.6      27.6      28.0       28.8     29.3      30.1       31.8        -
Minimum                     20.8       21.6       21.6      20.3      18.7     17.3      16.2       16.2      16.3     17.0      17.3       18.8
Itecijiitdtlon (m/Ill)          10.0       12.5      30.3        3.2      1.1       1.0       0.0       0.1       0.5       1.3       1.8       0.5        62.3
Relative lIumidity (I)          61.4       55.2      63.8       63.4      67.4     70.5      71.4      70.6       69.2     68.4      66.9       64.3       66.0
Evaporation (m/n)              193.5      181.3    175.5       169.1     146.9    123.4    123.5      127.4      129.9    150.4     146.5     175.8    1,843.2
Wind Velocity (m/s)              4.9        4.4       4.3        4.6       4.9      5.0       5.3       5.6        5.7      5.7       4.2       5.5         5.0
Days Light ilours (M/)          52.7       51.7      53.5       61.7      60.2     54.7      53.8      59.8       59.2     61.2      59.4       59.6       57.3-
flours of Stn Per Day            6.4        6.4       6.7        7.4       7.2      6.4       6.4       7.1        7.2      7.5       7.3        7.3        6.9
I/ Average data for 1968 to 1978; CORPAC and Mirafloree stationa-
May 8, 1979



ANNEX 1
Table3
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Land Reclamation Service
Cost Estimates
(S/. '000)
Item                        Annual        Total
(5years)
1. OPERATING COSTS
a.  Personnel Salaries
Chief Engineer                          1,200          6,000
Assistant Engineer                        840          4,200
Chief Design Engineer                      960         4,800
Chief Construction Engineer               960          4,800
Chief Water & Soil Engineer               960          4,800
Irrigation & Drainage Engineer (3)    2,160           10,800
Construction Engineers (2)              1,440          7,200
Soils Scientist                           720          3,600
Agroeconomist                             720          3,600
Designs Assistant (6)                   2,880         14,400
Construction Inspectors (6)             2,880         14,400
Surveyors (8)                           5,040         25,200
Draftsmen (4)                           1,680          8,400
Irrigation & Drainage Technicians (8) 2,880           14,400
Laboratory Assistant (3)                   900         4,500
Secretaries (4)                           768          3,840
Laborers (20)                           2,400         12,000
Social Benefits (30%)                   8,816         44,082
38,204       191,022
b.  Vehicles O&M                             2,091         10,455
c.  Materials                                7,716.2      38,581
Base Operating Costs                   48,011.2      240,058
Physical Contingencies (10%)            4,801.1       24,006
Total Operating Costs                  52,812.3      264,064
2. INVESTMENT COSTS
a.  Vehicles, pick-up (4)                                   6,970
b.  Office Furniture                                        1,305
c.  Equipmentl/                                            55,370
Base Investment Costs                                 63,645
Physical Contingencies (10%)                           6,364
Total Investment Costs                                70,009
1/ Includes topograhical, meteorological, hydrometric, soils laboratory
and office equipment.
Ma- -1, 1979



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
PERU                             Table 4
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Service
Cost Estimates
(S/. '000)
Item                           Annual        Total
(5 years)
1. OPERATING COSTS
a. Salaries
Chief of Unit (General Agronomist)          1,200         6,000
Agronomist (Irrigated Crops)                  720         3,600
Livestock Specialist (Dairy Cattle)           720         3,600
Livestock Specialist (Goats & Sheep)          720         3,600
Agricultural Economist                        720         3,600
Heads of "Agencias" (5 Ings. Agrons.)       3,600        18,000
Livestock Technicians (5)                   2,400        12,000
Extension Officers (25 Tecnicos
Agropecuarios)      9,o000      45,000
Extension Agents for Cooperatives (4)       1,440         7,200
Secretaries (10)                            1,920         9,600
Social Benefits (30% of base salaries)    6,732          33,660
Subtotal Salaries                          29,172       145,860
b.  Vehicles O&M4J                              5,289        26,445
c.  Materials                                   2,050        10,250
Base Operating Costs                       36,511       182,555
Physical Contingencies (10%)                3,651        18,256
Total Operating Costs                      40,162       200,811
2. INVESTMENT COSTS
a. Vehicles
4-wheel Drive Vehicles (6) (US$8,500
each)                   10,455.0
Motorcycles (35) (US$1,000 each)                          7,175.0
Subtotal                                                 17,630.0
b.  Office Furniture                                          2,683.2
c.  Office Equipment                                          8,708.0
Base Investment Costs                                    29,021.2
Physical Contingencies (10%)                              2,902.1
Total Investment Cost                                    31,923.3
1/ 30% of base cost.
May 21, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Maintenance Equipment -  CIF   Peruvian Port
(US$'000o
Unit
Item                        No.                 Price                      Total
Backhoe 200 hp - 13 m3                               6                 197.1                       1,182.6
Backhoe 125 hp - 0.7 m                               5                 123.7                         618.5
Bulldozer 140 hp                                     2                   93.3                        186.6
Bulldozer 75 hp                                      2                   45.6                         91.2
Motorgrader 135 hp3                                  2                   70.1                        140.2
Wheel loader 2.3 m                                   1                   80.0                         80.0
Truck, tank with sprinkler system, 2,000 gal.        2                   30.0                         60.0
Truck, dump 5 m                                      2                   26.0                         52.0
Truck, oil tank 500 gal,                             1                   40.0                         40.0
Truck, maintenance unit                              2                   60.0                        120.0
Truck, 5 ton                                         2                   22.0                         44.0
Trailer                                              1                   65.0                         65.0
Vehicles, four-wheel drive                           5                    8.5                         42.5
Motorcycles 125 cc                                  10                    1.0                         10.0
Concrete mixer 6 cubic feet                          1                    2.0                          2.0
Vibrator                                             2                    2.0                          4.0
Pneumatic compactor                                  2                    2.0                          4.0
Service equipment                                 Global                 50.0                         50.0
Radio equipment                                   Global                 20.0                         20.0
Tilelayer machine                                    1                  257.1                        257.1
Tile drain cleaner                                   1                    4.0                          4.0
Spare parts (10%)                                                                                    307.4
Baseline Cost                                                                                      3,381.1
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                                                         338.1
TOTAL COST                                                                                         3,719.2
May 21, 1979                                                                                                                (D
t-n 



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Irrigation Water Requirements
annual
Irrigated    Consumptive
Area           Use         Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    June    Ju           Aug    Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec    ToLal
haa/year                   ------------------------------Millions of n 2/---------------------------------------------
1st Season + Perm.
Cotton                         22,000          7,250       11.0   31.0   56.0   81.0   74.0    47.0    18.0          -        -      -       -       -     318.0
Rice                            2,000         13,880 1/    7.0    8.0    9.0    6.0    1.0          -        -       -        -      -       -      3.0      34.0
Maize                           3,200          5,980         -       -     3.0    8.0   10.0       9.0      6.0    2.0        -      -       -       -       38.0
Sorghtum                        4,200          5,110         -       -     4.0   12.0   14.0       9.0      3.0      -        -      -       -       -      42.()
Alfalfa                         2,100         17,220       10.0   10.0    8.0    8.0    5.0        3.0      3.0    3.0      4.0    5.0    6.0    7.0         72.0
Vegetable                          700         5,170         -     0.7    1.7    2.5    2.0        0.5       -       -        -      -       -       -        7.4
Others (sweet potato)             500          7,240         -     0.4    1.3    2.2    2.3        1.6      0.6      -        -      -       _       _        8.4
34,700                                                                                                                      519.8
2nd Season
Maize                           5,000          4,430         -      -       -       -       -       -       3.0    7.0    10.0   12.0    9.0    3.0         44.0
Sorghum                         4,000         4,620        11.0    6.0      -       -      -        -        -       -       -      2.0    7.0   10.0        36.0
Vegetable                         800          2,960        0.4     -           -       -       -            -       -      0.4    1.1    1.6    1.3         4.8
Pulses                          2,000          3,230         --         -       -       -       -            -       -      1.5    4.2    5.0    2.3         13.0
Others (sweet potato)             500          4,850         -      -       -       -       -       -        -      0.2     0.7    1.3    1.7    0.9         4.8
12,300                                                                                                                      102.6
47o000 3/                  39.4   56.1   83.0  119.7  108.3    70.1    33.6   12.2    16.6   25.6   30.3   27.5    622.4               >, I>
S V
m
1/  Farm gate demand including field leak and percolation losses.
2/  Monthly water requirements at the head of the network (Catacaos), considering 0.5 overall irrigation efficiency (0.8 conveyance; 0.6 field).
3/  Cropping intensit,  47.000        1
34,700  =  1.35
May 21, 1979



ANNEX 1
PERU                                      Table 7
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Water Balance - Medium and Lower Piura Valleyl/
Municipal
Supply      Main Season   Second Season       Bayovar        TUTAL
Year   Mm;       X    mm        X   Mrn          X   Mm        Z   Mm-        X
1    42.3   100   700.5   100       0.0       0   67.5    91   810.3    86
2    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   73.8   100   943.0   100
3    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   73.8   100   943.0   100
4    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   66.2    90   935.4    99
5    42.3   100   700.5   100    76.0        60   73.6   100   892.6    95
6    42.3   100   438.7    63       0.0       0    6.3      9   487.3    52
7    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   73.6   100   943.0   100
8    42.3   100   700.5   100       0.0        0   62.1    84   804.9    85
9    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   73.8   100   943.0   100
10    42.3   100   452.9    65       0.0        0   49.2    67   544.4    58
11    42.3   100   608.3    87   126.4       100   61.8    84   838.8    89
12    42.3   100   700.5   100    58.0        46   73.8   100   874.6    94
13    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   61.8    84   931.0    99
14    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   73.8   100   943.0   100
15    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   73.8   100   943.0   100
16    42.3   100   700.5   100    71.0        56   73.8   100   887.6    94
17    42.3   100   700.5   100       0.0        0   49.2    67   792.0    84
18    34.7    82   494.8    71       0.0       0    6.3       9   535.8    57
19    33.7    80   223.9    32       0.0        0    0.0     0   257.6    27
20    30.0    71   492.6    70       0.0        0   17.0    23   538.6    57
21    40.7    96   576.2    82   126.4       100   61.8    84   805.1    85
22    42.3   100   700.5   100   120.8        96   73.8   100   937.4    99
23    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   73.8   100   943.0   100
24    42.3   100   700.5   100   126.4       100   73.8   100   943.0   100
25    42.3   100   700.5   100   102.2        81   73.8   100   918.8    97
Ave.   41.1    97   635.8    91    77.3         61   58.7    80   812.9    86
Demands:  Municipal Supply       2/   42.3
First Cropping Seasonr-  700.5
Second Cropping Season-- 126.4
Bayovar                    73.8
Total                     943.0
1/ Water balance does not consider future savings from rehabilitation of
Chira Valley.
2/ Includes water losses in the Chira-Piura canal and in the Piura River
upstream of Catacaos.
May 17, 1979



- 38 -
AN\'EX 1
:able 6
PERE
LOVER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITAIION II PROJEC7'
Project Cost
Foreign    Base
Item                            Local       Foreign      Total    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Cost
- S/.Million -------USSMillion---
Main Irrigation and Flood Control Works
Diversion Dam                                1,391.38   1,093.22   2,484.6    6.79          5.33    12.12        44        9.8
Main Irrigation Canal                        2,217.28   3,325.92   5,543.2   10.82         16.22    27.04        60       21.9
Flood Control Dikes                            838.04   3,352.16   4,190.2    4.09         16.35    20.44        80       16.5
Engineering and Supervision                    610.90      610.90   1,221.8    2.98         2.9e      5.96       50        4.8
Subtotal                                  5,057.60   8,382.20  13,439.8   24.68          40.8E    65.56        62       53.0
Irrigation and Drainage Networks
Secondary and Tertiary Canals (lined)        1,435.00   2,152.44   3,587.44   7.00         10.50    17.50        60       14.2
Lateral and Sublateral Canals                  421.58      515.27      936.85   2.06        2.51      4.57       55        3.7
Main Drains                                     43.23       80.28      123.51   0.21        0.39      0.60       65        0.5
Collector Drains                             1,372.29      5S8.12   1,960.41   6.69         2.82      9.56       30        7.7
Field Drains                                   282.06      846.18   1,128.24   1.37         4.13      5.50       75        4.5
Buildings and Furnishngs /                      78.72       19.68       98.40   0.3e        0.10      0.48       21       0C4
Engineering and SupFrn ision .                 536.53      134.13      670.66   2.62        0.65      3.27       20        2.6
Right-of-Way  and Taxes                        486.60       -          486.60   2.37        -         2.37       -         1.2
Subtotal                                  4,656.01   4,336.10   8,992.11  22.70          21.15    43.85        49       34.7
On-Farm Investments
Irrigation Ditches                             217.34      144.89      362.23   1.06        0.71      1.77       40        1.4
Land Levelling                                 240.52      721.55      962.07   1.17        3.52      4.69       75        3.3
Leaching and Soil Improvements                  87.38       87.39      174.77   0.42        0.43      0.85       51        0.7
Other Investments                               86.92       21.73      108.65   0.42        0.11      0.53       21        0.4
Subtotal                                     632.16      975.56   1,607.72   3.07         4.77      7.84       61        6.3
Equipment
Maintenance Equilment                           -          692.90      692.90    -          3.38      3.38      100        2.7
Vehicles2/                                      -           24.60       24.60    -          0.12      0.12      100        0.1
Technica'  quipment                             -           63.55       63.55    -          0.31      0.31      lUO        u.
Subtotal                                      -          781.05      781.05    -          3.81      3.81      100        3.1
Technical'Services and Consultants
Agricultural Extension                         lR2.5h       -          182.56   0.89        -         0.89       -         0.7
Land Reclamation                               240.06       -          240.06   1.17        -         1.17       -         1.0
Training                                        -           20.50       20.50    -          0.10      0.10      100        0.1
Consulting Services                             -          123.00      123.00    -          0.60      0.60      100        0.5
Feasibility Studies                            131.20       32.80      164.00   0.64        0.16      0.80       20        0.6
Subtotal                                     553.82      176.30      730.12   2.70       0.6       3.56       24        2.9
Total Base Cost                               10,899.59  14,651.21  25,550.80  53.15         71.47   124.62        58      100.0
Physical ConLingencies                         1,608.38   2,179.41   3,787.79   7.85         10.63    18.48        58       14.9
Price Contingencies                                                               15.23      20.48    35.71        58       28.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                                76.23    102.58   178.81         58      142.3
Exchange Rate:  US$l - 205 soles
!/ Determined as 10% of all the irrigation and drainage categories except field drains and right-of-way.
2/ Includes vehicles for agricultural research and extension service and land reclamation unit,
April 2, 1979



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
PERL
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
(US$ Million)
-- - --------Project Years- -
Item                            1980    1981    1982    1983    1984          Total
Main Irrigation & Flood Control Works
Diversion Dam                               7.27    4.85       -       -        -         12.12
Main Irrigation Canal                       5.40   10.82   10.82       -        -         27.04
Flood Control Dikes                          -       4.09    8.17    8.18       -         20.44
Engineering & Supervision                   1.27    1.98    1.90    0.81        -          5.96
Subtotal                                 13.94   21.74   20.89    8.99        -         65.56
Irrigation & Drainage Networks
Secondary & Tertiary Canals (lined)         1.75    4.38    5.25    3.50    2.62          17.50
Lateral & Sublateral Canals                 0.46    1.14    1.14    1.14    0.69           4.57
Main Drains                                  -        -        -      0.60      -          0.60
Collector Drains                            1.91    2.87    2.87    1.91        -          9.56
Field Drains                                0.27    1.10    1.38    1.38    1.37           5.50
Buildings and Furnishings                   0.18    0.30       -       -        -          0.48
Engineering and Supervision                 0.43    0.87    0.93    0.71    0.33           3.27
Right-of-Way & Taxes                        0.49    0.42    0.28    0.20        -          1.39
Subtotal                                  5.49   11.08   11.85    9.44    5.99         43.85
On-Farm Development
Irrigation Ditches                          0.18    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.27           1.77
Land Levelling                              0.46    1.18    1.18    1.18    0.69           4.69
Leaching and Soil Improvements              0.16    0.17    0.17    0.17    0.18           0.85
Others                                      0.10    0.10    0.11    0.11    0.11           0.53
Subtotal                                  0.90    1.89    1.90    1.90    1.25           7.84
Eauipment
Maintenance Equipment                       2.06    0.84    0.48                           3.38
Vehicles                                    0.12      -        -                           0.12
Technical Equipment                         O.ll    0010    0.10                           0.31
Subtotal                                  2.29    0.94    0.58                           3.81
Technical Services and Consultants
Agricultural Extension                      0.17    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18           0.89
Land Reclamation                            0.23    0.23    0.23    0.24    0.24           1.17
Training                                    0.03    0.04    0.03       -        -          0.10
Consulting Services                         0.10    0.15    0.15    0.10    0.10           0.60
Feasibility Studies                          -       0.40    0.40      -         -         0.80
Subtotal                                  0.53    1.00    0.99    0.52    0.52           3.56
Total Base Cost                              23.15   36.65   36.21   20.85    7.76         124.62
Physical Contingencies                         3.44    5.44    5.38    3.08    1.14         18.48
Price Contingencies                            3.40    8.43   11.46    8.53    3.89         35.71
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           29.99   50.52   53.05   32.46   13.19         178.81
May 8, 1979



- 40 -                                                  ANNEX 1
Table 10
PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Financing Plan
(US$Million)
Energoprojekt           Gcvernmentl/          World Bank
Item                               US$Million    %      US$Million      %      US$Million      %      Total
Main Irrigation and Flood Control Works
Diversion Dam                                    6.06     50          6.06       50           -        -        12.12
Main Irrigation Canal & Structures              13.52      50        13.52       50           -         -       27.04
Flood Control Dikes                             10.22     50         10.22       50           -        -        20.44
Admin. Eng. & Supervision                        2.98     50          2.98       50           -        -         5.96
Subtotal                                     32.78      50         32.78       50           -        -        65.56
Irrigation & Drainage Networks                                          7.72       35         14.35      65       22.07
Irrigation Canals                                 -        -          7.72       35        14.35       65       22.07
Main & Collector Drains                           -         -         3.56       35          6.60      65       10.16
Field Drains                                      -        -          1.92       35          3.58      65        5.50
Building Construction &-Furnishings               -        -          0.17       35         0.31       65        0.48
Admin. Eng. & Supervision                         -        -          1.14       35          2.13      65        3.27
Right-of-Way & Taxes                              -        -          2.37      100            -       -         2,37
Subtotal                                        -        -         16.88      38         26.97       62      43.85
On-Farm Investments                                 -         -         2.74       35          5.10      65        7.84
Equipment
Maintenance Equipment                             -         -           -        -           3.38      100       3.38
Vehiclesl/                                        -        -           -         -           0.12     100        0.12
Technical Equipment2/                             -        -           -         -           0.31     100        0.31
Subtotal                                        -        -           -         -          3.81      100        3.81
Technical Services and Consultants
Agricultural Extension                            -        -          0.31       35          0.58      65        0.89
Land Reclamation Unit                             -        -          0.41       35         0.76       65        1.17
Training                                         -         -           -        -           0.10      100        0.10
Consulting Services            -                  -        -           -         -           0.60     100        0.60
Feasibility Studies                               -        -           -         35          0.80     100        0.80
Subtotal                                        -        -          0.72      28          2.84       72        3.56
Total Base Cost                                   32.78      26        53.12       43         38.72       31     124.62
Physical Contingencies                             4.92      27         7.95       43          5.61      30       18.48
Price Contingencies                                8.70     24         15.34       43         11.67      33       35.71
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                46.40      26        76.41       43         56.00      31      178.81
1/ Includes vehicles for agricultural research and extension service and land reclamation unit.
2/ Includes topographical, meteorological, hydrometric, soils laboratory and office equipment.
3/ Includes US$1.1 million contribution of the beneficiaries.
May 8, 1979



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
Cummulative
Disbursement       Disbursement
World Bank                Date                      at the          at the end of
Fiscal Year         of Disbursement             end of period       the period
1981               December 31, 1980                 1.0                1.0
June 30, 1981                    6.9                 7.9
1982               December 31, 1981                 6.5               14.4
June 30, 1982                    7.2                21.6
1983               December 31, 1982                 7.3               28.9
June 30, 1983                    7.6                36.5
1984               December 31, 1983                 6.0               42.5
June 30, 1984                    5,9                48.4
1985               December 31, 1984                 3.9               52.3
June 30, 1985                    3.7                56.0
April 30, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRFICATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
W1ith and Without Project, Area Development and Cropping Pattern
(ha)
Without      ------------With Project------------------------
Project      1980(1)  1981(2)  19P2(3)  1993(4)  1)4(9)   98l(6)  t$86
Cultivated Area                         27,469      27,469   27,969   28,969   30,569   32,569   34,720   34,720
Cropped Area                            29,089      29,450   32,250   35,300   38,170   41,730   45,300   47,000
Cropping Intensity (Z)                    84          85        93      102       110       120       130       135
Main Season and Permanent Crops
Cotton                               21,140      21,150   21,400   21,650   21,850   22,000   22,000   22,000
Corn                                     990         900    1,100    1,400    2,000    2,500    3,000    3,200
Sorghum                                  985       1,100    1,500    2,000    2,500    3,500    4,100    4,200                1
Rice                                     860         900    1,250    1,500    1,750    2,000    2,000    2,000               4
Garden Crops/                            340         350      400       500       530       600       750       700
Other  Annual Crops- 2/                2,669      2,400    1,980    1,660    1,230          900       560       520
Pasture  and Fodder Crops/               485         500      700    1,000    1,400    1,800    2,100    2,100
Subtotal                           27,469      27,300   28,330   29,710   31,260   33,300   34,510   34.720
Second Season Crops
Corn                                     225         500    1,300    2,000    2,,30G    3,000    3,800    5,000
Sorghum                                  225         400    1,100    1,800    2,500    3,000    4,100    4,000
Pulses                                   550         600      800    1,000    1,210    1,430    1,700    2,000
Garden Crops-/    2/                     340         350      400       450    120    13600           750      800
Other Annual Crops-                      280         300      320       340       370       400       440      480
Subtotal                            1,620       2,150    3,920    5,590    6,910    8,430   10,790   12,280
TOTAL CROPPED AREA                 29,089      29,450   32,250   35,300   38,170   41,730   45,300   47,000
1/ Onions, preen corn, relon, etc.
9/Sweet votato. 
3/Alfalfa.' 
M;1y 8, 1979



PERU
LOWEP. PIUKA IRRICATION REHABILITATION I1 PROJECT
Yields Per Hectare and Volume of Production
With and Without Project
CroP9
Yields (Ions/Ila)                               Without Project        ____________________-_ --_----_----------With Project---------------------------------------------
1               2                3                14               5                6                7-50          -rement.al
Cotton                                              1.50             1.60             1.75             1.90             2.10             2.30             2.40             2.40              .90
Ccrn                                                2.00             2.30             2.60             3.00             3.50             4.00             4.50             4.50             2.50
Sorghum                                             2.80             3.00             3.35             4.00             4.60             5.10             5.10             5.10             2.30
Rice                                                4.00             4.20             4.50             5.00             5.50             6.00             6.00             6.00             2.00
P'ulses (dry).95                                                     1.00             1.15             1.32             1.50             1.65             1.80             1.80              .85
Gerden C(dry)o 1                                    6.00             6.50             7.40             8.35             9.20            10.60            12.00            12.00             6.00
Other Annual Crop2/                                 6.20             6.50             7.40             8.35             9.20            10.60            12.00            12.00             5.80
Pasture .ad Fodder-/                               19.00            19.00            20.00            21.00            21.00            22.00            24.00            24.00             5.00
Volume of Production (000 of metric tons)
Cotton                                             31.71            33.84            37.45            41.14            45.89            50.60            52.80            52.80            21.09
Corn                                                2.43             3.22             6.24            10.20            15.05            22.00            30.60            36.90            34.47
Sorghum                                             3.39             4.50             8.71            15.20            23.00            33.12            41.82            41.82            38.43
Rice                                                3.44             3.78             5.63             7.50             9.63            12.00            12.00            12.00             8.56
Pulase3                                              .52              .60             .92              1.32             1.82             2.36             3.06             3.60             3.08
Ga.denCrop s-1                                      4.08             4.55             5.92             7.93             9.75            12.72            18.00            18.00            13.92
Others--l                                          18.28            17.55            17.02            16.70            14.72            13.78            12.00            12.00            (f.28)
Pasture and Fodder3/                                9.14             9.72            14.11            20.88            30.51            40.19            48.72            48.72            39.58
1/  Onions usel as prototyp-.
2/  Sweet potatoes used as prototype.
3/ AlfaJfa hay, equivalent to 29-. of gross weight.
May 29, 1979



- 44 -                                ANNEX 1
Table 14
PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Producer Prices at Farm Gate LevelY/
TS-. per Metric Ton)
Financial       -----------------Economic Prices-----------------
Prices       1980         1981        1982         1985         1990
Cotton2/            77,083      122,670      126,014      129,714      131,920     131,920
Rice-.I             29,830       53,200       54,670       56,640       60,430      62,380
Maize               22,420       27,550       28,030       28,520       29,430      30,090
Sorghum             22,800       25,000       25,900       26,390      27,330       27,800
Pulses              36,670       36,670       36,670       36,670       36,670      36,670
Vegetables          21,394       21,394       21,394       21,394       21,394      21,394
Sweet Potatoes      10,260       10,260       10,260       10,260       10,260      10,260
Alfalfa             10,070       10,070       10,070       10,070       10,070       10,070
1/ All prices in constant 1979 values.
2/ It is assumed that the Piura cotton will receive about 15% premium in the
world market compared to Mexican SM 1-1/16" CIF N. Europe. About 15% of
the CIF price is the cost cf commercialization; about $10 per ton is the price
of cotton seed; and about 30% is the extraction rate of lint from raw cotton.
3/  A ratio of about 1.5 is assumed between vaddy and milled rice.
May 3, 1979



PERU
LOrWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Agricultural Labor Requirements (in mandays)
----.---------- -----------------------------------------------Without Project---------------------------------------------------
Crop                  Jan        Feb        Mar        Apr       May        Jun        Jul                   Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec        Total
totton                           253,680   380,520   232,540    84,560   105,700   317,100   317,100   169,120   84,560                                             1,944,880
Ccrn           - 1st Seas,,n                  9,900      5,940      4,950      4,950    14,850                                                                         40,590
Corn           - 2nd Season                                                                                    2,250      1,350      1,125      1,125      3,375        9,229
Sorghum        - 1st Season                   4,925      9,850      5,910     6,895      6,895                                                                         34,475
Sorghuim       - 2nd Season                                                                                    1,125      2,250      1,350      1,575      1,575        7,875
Rice                              13,760    13,760    13,760    14,620    15,480                                                                1,720    17,200        90,300
Pullsss                                                                                             4,400      4,400      2,200      5,500      2,200                  18,700
Gdar'eJi Crops  - i.st Season                 3,740      7,820      7,820      7,820     4,080                                                                         31,280
Garden Crops    2nd Season                                                                                     7,820      7,820      7,820      7,820                  31,2fl)
Otiher Annuals - 1st Season                             21,352    42,704    16,014    40,035                                                                          120,132
Other Anniuals - 2nd Season                                                                         2,240      4,480      1,680      4,200                             12,600
Alfalfa                            1          1,940      1,940      1,940      1,940      1.940     1          1,940      1,940      1,940      1,940      1,940       22, 795
rf(rAL MANDAYS                 268,895   414,785   293,202   162,504   158,799   384,900   325,680   191,135   101,800    21,935    16,380    24,090   2,364,105
--------------------------------------------------------------Full Development--------------------------------------------------
Cop                  _Jn         Feb        Mar        Apr        May        Jun       Jul        Aug        Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec        Total
Cotton                           330,000   440,000   308,000   110,000   132,000   396,000   396,000   198,000   110,000                                            2,420,000
Corn           - lst Season                  35,200    19,200    19,200    16,000    54,400                                                                           144,00n
Corn           - 2nd Season                                                                                   55,000    30,000    30,000    25,000    85,000          225,000
Sorghum        - 1st Season                  25,200    42,000    25,200    29,400    33,600                                                                           155,40(0
Sorghum        - 2nd Season                                                                                   24,000    40,000    24,000    28,000    32,000          148,000
Rice                                         36,000    36,000    36,000    38,000    42,000                                                     8,000    42,000       238,000
rulses                                                                                             20,000    22,000    12,000    24,000    12,000                      90,000
Garden Crops  - 1st Season                   11,900    24,500    24,500    24,500    12,600                                                                            98,000
Garden Crops  - 2nd Season                                                                                    28,000    28,000    28,000    28,00(0                   112,000
Other Annuals - lst Season                               5,200    10,400       4,680     9,360                                                                         29,640
Other Annuals - 2nd Season                                                                          4,800      9,600      4,320      8,640                             27,360
Alfalfa                           10,500    10,500    10,500    10,500    10,500    10,500    10,500    10,500    10,500    10,500  _0,0                              115,500 v
Sr 2
TM AL MANDAYS                  340,500   558,800   445,400   235,800   255,080   558,460   431,300   347,100   234,820   125,140   111,500   159,00(0   3,802,90(0 
May 23, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABIL-TATION II PROJECT
Crops Production Cost Per Ha
1.8 Ha Farm Model
Without Project
(Soles)             Garden        Other       Alfalfa    Alfalf
Inputs Other Than Labor        Cotton      Corn      Sorghum        Pulses      C            Annuals2/   1st Year   Yrs.l-6
(1) Land Preparation
Ploughing                1604.3     1604.3      1604.3       1604.3'      1604.3       1604.3      2673.9         -
Harrowing                  -         534.8       -              -         1069.6         -            -           -
Bordering                 534.8       -          -            534.8,        -           534.8         -           -
Leveling                  534%8      534.8      534.8         534.8       1069.6        534.8         -           -
(2) Planting
Sowing                    534.8       -        1069.6          -            -            -          534.8         -
Seed                     1711.3     2852.2    2673.9          2406.5      8913.0       2673.0      12478.3        -
(3) Crop Husbandry
Cultivation              1604.3     1069.6    1069.6          534.8         -            -            -
(4) Fertilization
Machine or Arimal Works  534.8       534.8       -             534.8        -            -            -           _
Fertilizers              7066.3     7066.3    5650.9          1 96.5      6207.0       4602.7       3083.9     1800.4
(5) Pest & Disease Control
Inputs                   3297.8      784.3      757.6        1069.6        713.0        713.0      1301.3      2602.6
Areal Spraying
(6) Irrigation (5 applics)
1782.6     1782.6    1782.6         1782.6       1782.6       1782.6      1782.6      1782.6
(7) Harvest
Sacks, bags, etc.         392.2     534.8       713.0         534.8        891.3       1069.6         -           -
Cleaning of fields                                                                      891.3         -
(8)  On-farm transportation      534.8     534.8       534.8          534.8      1604.3       1604.3        534.8      2139.1
Subtotal                       20132.8    17833.3   16391.1         12068.3     23854.7      16011.3      22389.6      8324.7
Labor                          46000.0    22500.0   21500.0         21500.0     53000.0      23500.0      16000 0    31000.0
Total Cost                     66132.8    40333.3   37891.1         33568.3      76854.7     39511.3      38389.6    39324-7
1/ E.g. red onion
2/ E.g. sweet potatoes.
olo
"av 3, 197n
ci'



PERU
LOWER PIU1A IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Crops Production Cost$ Per Ha
1.8 Ha Farm Model
With Project
(Soles)
Garden       Other       Alfalfa       Alfalfa
!pu_ts Other Than Labor   Cotton           Corn        Sorghum      Pulses         Cropsl/   Annuals2/   1st Year    Yrs. 1-6
(1)  Land Preparation
Ploughing             1604.3       1604.3         1604.3      1604.3       1604.3        1604.3      3743.5           -
Harrowing               -              -            -           -           1069.6         -           -
Bordering              534.8           -            -          534.8          -           534.8        -              -
Leveling              1069.6       1604.3         1604.3      1604.3        1069.6       1604.3        -
(2) Planting
Sowing                 534.8        534.8         1069.6       534.8          -            -           -
Seed                  1426.1       2852.2         2673.9      2406.5       8913.0        2673.9    12478.3            -
(3) Crop Husbandry
Cultivation           2139.1       1069.6         1069.6       534.8          -            -           -              -
(4) Fertilization
Machine/Animal Work 1069.6         1069.6           -         2533.1          -            -         1069.6        1069.6
Fertilizers          14198.5      11531.7        10064.6      2479.6      15615.7        7601.0      6032.3        4278.3
(5)  Pest Disease Control
Inputs                5971.7       1782.6          802.2      2673.9        2228.3       1069.6      2602.6        3903.9
Areal Spraying
(6) Irrigation (6 applic)
2673.9       2673.9        2673.9       2673.9       2673.9       2673.9       2673.9       2673.9
(7)  Harvest (Mechanic.)                   3297.8                                                1069.6
Sacks, Bags, etc.    802.2         1069.6         1069.6       891.3       1337.0        1782.6        -             -
Clean. hp of fields
(8)  On-farm transp.          1069.6       1069.6        1069.6       1069.6       2139.1       2139.1        534.8       3208.7
Subtotal             33094.2      30694.8        23701.6    19540.9       36650.5       22753.1    29135.0        15134.4
Labor                57000.0      23500.0        22500.0    23500.0       71500.0       31000.0    20000.0        44000.0
Total Cost           90094.2      54194.8        46201.6    43040.9    108150.5         53753.1    49135.0        59134.4
I/  E.g. Red onions.                               --
2/  E.g. Sweet Potatoes.
May 8, 1979                                                                                                                       '|



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Crops Production Cost Per Ha
15 Ha and 1,000 Ha Farm.Model
Without Project
(Soles)                     Garde,       Other       Alfalfa      Alfalfa
Ioputs Other Than Labor        Cotton        Corn       Sorghum       Rice        Pulses       Crops-      Annuals-/  st Year   Years 2-6
(1) Land Preparation
Ploughing                 3,565.2    3,565.2    3,565.2         3,565.2    31565.2        3,565.2    3,565.2    3,565.2           -
Horrowing                 1,426.1    1,426.1    1,426.1         1,426.1    1',426.1       1,426.1    1,426.1         713.0        -
Bordering                     -          713.0       713.0      1,426.1        713.0        -         1,426.1         -           -
-           -           -           -                       2,139.1    1,426.1    2,852.2           -
(2) Planting
Sowing                    1,782.6    1,782.6    1,782.6           -            891.3        -             -           -           -
Seed                      1,996.5    3,422.6    3,565.2         3,609.8    2,673.9        8,913.0    2,673.9   12,478.3           -
(3) Crop Husbandry
Cultivation               2,852.2    2,139.1    1,426.1           -         1,426.1         -             -           -
(4) Fertilization
Machine/Arimal Work       1,426.1    1,426.1    1,426.1         1,426.1        -            -            -            -           _
Fertilizers               7,066.3    7,066.3    5,650.9    10,599.4    1,996.5            6,207.0    4,602.7    3,083.9         1,799.5
(5) Pest Disease Control
Inputs                    4,456.5        784.3       757.6      1,069.6    1,069.6          713.0        713.0    1,301.3       2,602.5
Aerial Spraying            1,515.2        -           -            820.0        -           -             -           -            -
(6) Irrigation (5 applic)
1,782.6    1,782.6    1,782.6        1,782.6    1,782.6        1,782.6    1,782.6    1,782.6         1,782.6
(7) Harvest                                  2,673.9   10,392.6
Sacks, Bags, etc.            392.2       534.8       713.0        534.8        534.R        891.3       891.3         -           -
Cleaning Up of Fields
and Thrashing              -            -           -         8,913.0        -            -            -                        -
(8) On-farm Transportation         713.0       713.0       855.7       39            713.0         713.0 713.0             713.0       4.Z78.3
Subtotal                   28,974.5   28,029.6   34,056.7         39,165.7   16,792.1    26,350.3   19,220.0   26,489.5    10,462.9
Labor                      46,500.0   18,000.0   13,250.0    52,500.0   16,000.0    48,000.0   21,500.0   14,500.0    28,500.0
TOTAL COST                 75,474.5   46,O2Q.6   47,306.7    91,665.7   32,792.1           74,350.3   40.720.0   40,989.5         38,962.9
1/ E.P. red onion.
2/ E.g. sweet potatoes.
May  3, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Crops Production Costs Per Ha
15 and 1,000 Ha Farm Model
With Project
(Soles)                      Gardey,      Other 2/  Alfalfa    Alfalfa
Inputs Other Than Labor        Cotton      C          Sorghum       Rice      Pulses       Crops-      Annuals-  1st Year   Years 2-6
(1) Land Preparation
Ploughing                3,565.2    3,565.2    3,565.2       4,456.4    3,565.2       3,565.2    3,565.2    3,565.2         -
Harrowing                1,426.1    1,426.1    1,426.1       1,426.1    1,4264        1,426.1    1,426.1         -          -
Bordering                   -          713.0       713.0     1,426.1       713.0        -         1,426.1       713.0        -
Land Smoothing           1,426.1    1,426.1    1,426.1       1,426.1       713.0      2,139.1    1,426.1    2,852.2         -
(2) Planting
Sowing                   1,782.6    1,782.6    1,782.6         -         1,462.1        -            -          -
Seed                     1,711.3    2,852.2    3,565.2       3,609.8    2,406.5       8,913.0    2,673.9   12,478.3         -
(3) Crop Husbandry
Cultivation              4,278.3    2,852.2    1,426.1         -         2,139.1        -            -           -           -
(4) Fertilization
Machine/Aniral Work      1,426.1    1,426.1    1,426.1       1,426.1        -           -            -       1,426.1      1,426.1
Fertilizers             14,198.5   11,531.7   10,064.6    16,918.7    3,943.1         9,358.7    7,601.0    6,034.1       4,278.3
(5) Pest Disease Control
Inputs                   5,971.7    1,782.6        757.6     1,426.1    2,673.9       2,228.3    1,069.6    2,602.6       3,903.9
Aerial Sprayiny          1,515.2        -           -          820.0        -           -            -           -           -
(6) Irrigation (6 applic.)
2,673.9    2,673.9    2,673.9       2,673.9    2,673.9      2,673.9    2,673.9    2,673.9        2,673.9
(7) Harvest (mechanically)                 3,297.8   12,478.3
Sacks, Bags, etc.          802.2    1,069.6        802.2       802.2       891.3      1,337.0    1,782.6         -           -
Cleaning Up of Fields
and Thrashing             -           -           -       13,191.3        -           -            -           -
(8) On-farm Transportation    1,069.6    1,069.6    1,140.9         7,130.0      713.0      1,426.1       855.7       713.0      7L130.4
Subtotal                  41,846.8   37,468.7   43,247.9    56,969.7   23,284.2    33,064.4   24,500.2   33,058.4    19,412.6
Labor                     53,500.0   22,000.0   15,000.0    59,500.0   21X000,0    68,500.0   27,500.0   21,500.0    43,000.0
TOTAL  COST               95,346.8   59,468.7   58,247.9   116,469.7   44,284.2   101,564.4   52,000.2   54,558.4    62,412.6
1/ E.g. red onion.
2/ E.g. sweet potatoes.
May 3, 1979



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table loa
PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REhABILITATION II PROJECT
1.8 Ha Farm Model
Expected Farm Development and Cropping Pattern
With Project
Without   ------ ------                           --------------
Project           1             2            3             4            5           6             7
Farm Works
Land leveling          (ha)         -              1.8         -            -             -            -            -             -
Irrigation ditches   (ha)          -               1.8         _            _             _            _            _            _
Soil leaching          (ha)         -              1.8         -            -             -            -           -             -
Land Use
Cultivated area        (ha)          1.44          1.44          1.72        1.80          1.80         1.80         1.80          1.80
Crops
Cotton                               1.03          1.04          1.05        1.06          1.10         1.10         1.10          1.10
Corn                                 0.24          0.30         0.35         0.40          0.44         0.44         0.44          0.44
Sorghum                              0.04         0.10          0.20         0.30          0.41         0.41         0.41          0.41
Pulses                               0.11          0.11         0.11         0.12          0.12         0.12         0.12          0.12
Garden Crops!/                       -            -              -           0.05          0.12         0.12         0.12          0.12
Other Annual,2/                      0.10          0.08         0.06         0.05          0.03         0.03         0.03          0.03
Alfalfa3/                            --                          -           0.10          0.22         0.22         0.22          0.22
Total cropped area  (ha)             1.52          1.63          1.77        2.08          2.44         2.44         2.44          2.44
Cropping intensity Z              106           113           103          115           136          136         136           136
Production (tons)
Cotton                               1.50          1.66          1.84        2.01          2.31         2.53         2.64          2.64
Corn                                 0.48         0.69          0.91         1.20          1.54         1.76         1.98          1.98
Sorghtu                              0.11         0.30          0.67         1.20          1.89         2.09         2.09          2.09
Pulses                               0.10          0.11          0.13        0.16          0.18         0.20         0.22          0.22
Garden Cropasl                       -             -             -           0.42          1.10         1.27         1.44          1.44
Other Annual=21                      0.62          0.52          0.44        0.42          0.28         0.32         0.36          0.36
Alfalfa/                             -             -             -           2.09          4.79          ..Q1        S in          S.)o
Gross Value of Production (S/.'-O)
Cotton                            115.62        127.96        141.93       154.94        178.06       195.02      203.50        203.50
Corn                                10.76         15.47        20.40        26.90         34.53        39.46        44.39        44.39
Sorghum                              2.51          6.84         15.28       27.36         43.09        47.65       47.65         47.65
Pulses                               3.67          4.03          4.77        5.87          6.60         7.33         8.07          8.07
Garden Crops!!                       -             -             -           8.99         23.53        27.17        30.81         30.81
Other Arnual'2/                      6.36          5.34          4.51        4.31          2.87         3.28         3.69          3.69
Alfalfa3u                            -  -          -             -          21.05         48.24        49.44        51.36         51.36
Total                              138.92       159.64        186.79       249.42        336.92       369.35      389.47        389.47
Cost of Production (S/.'000)
Crops
Cotton                              20.73        22.48         24.38        26.44         29.47       31.65        36.40        36.40
Corn                                 4.28          5.78         7.29         9.01         10.71       11.58        13.50        13.50
Sorghum                              0.66         1.73          3.64         5.76          8.29        8.74         9.72         9.72
Rice                                 -                   -             -            -      ----
Pulses                               1.33          1.42         1.52         1.7.8         1.91        2.04         2.34         2.34
Garden Crops                         -             -            -            1.43          3.65        3.88         4.40         4.40
Other Annuals                        1.60          1.35         1.06         0.93          0.59        0.62         0.68         0.68
Alfalfa                              -             -            -            2.50          2.58        2.81         3.33          3.33
Subtotal                            28.60        32.76         37.89        47.85         57.20       61.32        70.37        70.37
Labor (family only)                 72.38        75.73         79.24        82.91         86.75       90.77        94.97        94.97
Total Cost                         100:98       108.49        117.13       130.79        143.95      152.09       165.34       165.34
1/ Red onions.
2! Sweet potatoes.
3/ Alfalfa hay, 292 of green weight.
May 3, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHIABILITATION II PROJECT
1.8 Ha Farm Model
Cash Flow
(S/. '000)
With Project
Without     ------------------------_Years_____________--_______
Project         1        2         3        4         5      6-16       17
CASH INFLOW
Sales          1/                    138.92     159.64   186.79   249.42   336.92   369.35   389.47   3s-.47
Long-term Loans-2/                              110.60
Short-term Loans-                     28.60      32.76    37.89    47.85    57.20    61.32    70.37   _,.37
Total Cash Inflow                    167.52     303.00   224.68   297.27   394.12   430.67   459.84   459.84
CASH OUTFLOW
Costs                 3/
Cash Farm Investments-                          110.60
Cash Production Costs-/               28.60      32.76    37.89    47.85    57.20    61.32    70.37    70.37
Subtotal                              28.60     143.36    37.89    47.85    57.20    61.32    70.37    70.37
Debt Service
Short-term Loans                    29.46      33.74    39.03    49.29    58.92    63.16    72.48    72.48
Long-term Loans                                 1.66      3.32     3.32      3.32      3.32    12.97       -
Subtotal                              29.46      35.40    42.35    52.61    62.24    66.48    85.45    72.48
Project Charges             5/
Operation and Mai tenance-          20.05      22.39    25.00    27.92    31.17    34.81    38.87    38.87
Capital Recovery.6                  -            -         -        -         -         -        -         -
Subtotal                              20.05      22.39    25.00    27.92    31.17    34.81    38.87    38.87
Total Cash Outflow                    78.11     201.15   105.22   128.38   150.61   162.61   194.69   181.72
5et Farm Income           7/          89.41     101.85   119.46   168.69   243.51   268.06   265.15   278.12
Estimated of Farm Income -           151.31     149.64   147.88   146.05   144.13   142.12   140.02   140.02
Total Family Income                  240.72     251.49   267.34   314.94   387.64   410.18   405.17   418.14
1/ For cash farm investments at 3% real interest, 15 years repayment and 5 years grace.
2/ For cash production costs at 3% real interest.
3/ 90Z of farm investments. Remaining 10% is farmers' contribution in labor.
4/ Production costs exclusive of family labor.
5/ S/.21,592.4 per ha including O&M of existing infrastructure.
6/ No capital recovery is recommended for a 1.8 ha farm.
T/ Correspond to wages for 507 of the residtual family labor supply.                                                   -
Mav 3, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
1.8 Ha Farm Model
Monthly Agricultural Labor Requirement (man-days)
Jan      Feb       Mar       Apr       May    Jun       Jul       AuR       Sept      Oct       Nov    Dec       Total
Without Project
Cotton                        16.56    24.84    15.18        5.52      6.90   20.70   20.7    11.04        5.52                                 126.96
Corn                                     2.10      1.26      1.05      1.05    3.15              0.03      0.18      0.15      0.15   0.45        9.66
Sorghum                                  0.20     0.40      0.24      0.28    0.28                                                                1.40
Pulses                                   0.56     0.56      0.28       0.70    0.28                                                               2.38
Garden Crops                              -         -         -         -        -            -        -              -          -      -
Other Annuals                                     0.80       1.60      0.60    1.5                                                                4.50
Alfalfa                         -         -         -                                             - .
Total                   16.56    27.70    18.20        8.69      9.53   25.91   20.7    11.07         5.70      0.15      0.15   0.45   144.76
Full Development
Cotton                        16.5      22.0      15.40      5.5       6.60   19.80   19.8       9.90      5.50                                121.00
Corn                                     2.2       1.20      1.2       1.00    3.40              2.64      1.44      1.44       1.20   4.08      19.80
Sorghum                                  1.2       2.00      1.2       1.40    1.60              1.26      2.10      1.26       1.47   1.68      15.17
Pulses                                   0.5      0.55       0.3       0.60    0.30                                                               2.25
Garden Crops                                                                                     4.20      4.20      4.20      4.20              16-80
Other Annuals                                      0.30      0.6       0.27    0.54                                                               1.71
Alfalfa                        1.1       1.1       1.10      1.1       1.10    1.10    1.1       1.10      1.10      1.10       1.10   1.10    13.20
Total                   17.6      27.0      20.55      9.9      10.97   26.74   20.9    19.10    14.34          8.00      1.97   6.86   IRP'J1
Available laborl'
2.5 x 25                      62.5     62.5      62.5      62.5      62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5         62.5      62.5      62.5   62.5       750.00
1/ Assume: 2.5 full laborers per family at 25 days per month.
January 17, 1979



ANNEX 1
Table 19a
PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECI
15 Ha Farm Model
Expected Farm OeveloPent and Cropping Pattern
With Proiect
Without       ----------------- - -- -------- Years-------- - -- ------   --------------
Project          1            2           3            4            5            6            7
Farm Works
Land leveling       (ha)         -            2.0          2.5          -            -            -            -            -
Irrigation ditches (ha)          -            2.0          2.5          -            -            -            _            _
Soil leaching       (ha)         -            2.0          8.0          -            -            -            -            -
Land Use
Cultivated area    (ha)         12.00        12.00        13.90        15.00        15.00        15.00        15.00        15.00
Crops
Cotton                           8.57         8.60         8.70         8.80         8.90         9.00         9.00         9.00
Corn                             0.63         0.70         1.00         1.80         2.20         2.43         3.00         3.46
Sorghum                          0.73         0.84         1.25         1.95         2.48         3.50         4.50         5.90
Rice                             0.46         0.50         0.65         0.80         1.00         1.20          1.38        1.62
Pulses                      - - 0.30          0.25         0.22         0.20         0.18         0.16         0.15         0.14
Other An ualsI/                  1.60         1.50         1.40         1.20         1.00         0.80         0.50         0.30
Alfalfal/                        0.25         0.30         0.41         0.47         0.70         0.90          1.00        1.20
Total cropped area  (ha)        12.54        12.69        13.90        15.22        16.46        17.99        19.53        21.62
Cropping intensity Y           105          106          100          101          110          120          130          144
Production (tons)
Cotton                          12.86        13.76        15.23        16.72        18.69        20.70        21.60        21.60
Corn                             1.26         1.61         2.60         5.40         7.70         9.72        13.50        15.57
Sorghum.                         2.04         2.52         4.19         7.80        11.41        17.85        22.95        30.09
Pulses                           0.29         0.25         0.25         0.26         0.27         0.26         0.27         0.25
Rice                             1.84         2.10         2.93         4.00         5.50         7.20         8.28         9.72
Other A  upais!'                 9.92         9.75        10.36        10.02         9.20         8.48         6.00         3.60
Alfalfa--                        4.71         5.83         8.27         9.81        15.23        20.10        23.20        27.84
Gross Value of Production (S/.'000)
Cotton                         991.29    1,060.66    1,173.97    1,288.83    1,440.68    1,595.62    1,664.99    1,664.99
Corn                            28.25        36.10        58.29       121.07       172.63       217.92       302.67       349.08
Sorghum                         46.51        57.46        95.53       177.84       260.15       406.98       523.26       686.05
Rice                            54.89        62.64        87.40       119.32       164.07       214.78       246.99       289.95
Pulses                          10.63         9.17         9.17         9.53         9.90         9.53         9.90         9.17
Other An7ualsi2                101.78       100.04       106.29       102.81        94.39        87.00        61.56        36.94
Alfalfa_i                       47.43        58.71        83.28        98.79       103.02       202.41       233.62       280.35
Total                        1,280.52    1,384.78    1,614.54    1,918.19    2,544.84    2,734.24    3,051.99    3,316.53
Production (S/.'000)
Crops
Cotton                         248.27       262.56       279.97       298.50       318.18      339.12       376.65        376.65
Corn                            17.66        20.45        30.44        57.10        72.71       83.69       112.41        129.65
SoXghum                         24.86        29.61        45.6t        73.63        96.92       141.58      195.63        255.18
Rice                            18.02        20.66        28.33        36.79        48.52        61.43        78.62        92.29
Pulses                           5.04         4.40         4.06         3.87         3.65         3.40         3.49          3.26
Garden Crops                                  -            -            -
Other Annuals                   30.75        29.84        28.80        25.55        22.04        18.25        12.25          7.35
Alfalfa                          2.62         3.43         5.11         6.40        10.41        24.98        11.42         14.96
Subtotal                       347.22       370.95       422.31       501.84       572.43       672.45       790.47        879.34
Family Labor                   286.93       296.74       306.88       317.37       328.21       339.43       351.03        363.03
Hired labor                    343.49       358.46       374.09       390.40       407.42       425.18       443.72        463.06
Total Cost                     977.64    1,026.15    1,103.28    1,209.61    1,308.06    1,137.06    1,585.22            1,705.43
1/ Sweet potatoes.
2/ Alfalfa hay, 29% of green weight.
May 4, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
1S ha Farm Model
Cash Flow
(S/. 'OUO)
Without                                            With Proiect
Proiect  ----------------------------------------Years-----------------------------------------
1         2          3          4         5          6        7-13         8         15
Cash Inflow
Sales           1/                1280.52   1384.78   1614.54   1918.19   2544.84   2734.24   3051.99   3316.53   3316.53   3316-53
Long-term Loans 2/                            145.40    178.40
Short-term Loans-                  690.91    729.41    796.40    892.24    979.85   1097.63   1224.19   1342.40   1342.40   1342.40
Total Cash Inflow                 1971.43   2259.59   2589.34   2810.43   3524.69   3831.87   4276.18   4658.93   4658.93   4658.93
Cash Outflow
Costs                 3/
Cash Farm Investments-                        145.40    178.40
Cash Production Costs4/            690.71    729.41    796.40    892.24    979.85   1097.63   1224.19   1342.40   1342.40   1342.40
Subtotal                         690.71    874.81    974.80    892.24    979.85   1097.63   1224.19   1342.40   1342.40   1342.40              1
Debt Service
Short-term Loans                 711.43    751.29    820.29    919.01   1009.25   1130.56   1260.93   1382.67   1382.67   1382-67              f
Long-term Loans                               2.18      7.04       9.71       9.71       9.71     24.33      42.26      23.28      -
Subtotal                         711.43    753.47    827.33    928.72   1018.96   1140.27   1285.26   1424.93   1405.95   1382.67
Project Charges
Operation and Matitenance.5/    167.10    107.10    191.08    231.96    274.52    307.17    323.89    323.89    323.89    323.89
Capital Recovery-                 -          -         30.68      83.62    141.47    189.09    218.04    218.04    218.04    218.04
Subtotal                         167.10    167.10    221.76    315.58    415.99    496.26    541.93    541.93    541.93    541.93
Total Cash Outflow                1569.24   1795.38   2023.89   2136.54   2414.80   2734.16   3051.38   3309.26   3290.28   326757o
Net Family Income                  402.19    464.21    565.45    673.89   1i09.89   1097.71   1224.80   1349.67   1368.65   139.93
1/ For cash farm investments at 3'!. real interest, 12 years repayment jnd 5 years grace.
2/ For cash production costs at 3% real interest.
3/ 90% of farm investments.  Remaining 10% is farmers' contribution in labor.
4/ Production costs exclusive of family labor.
5/ S/. 21, 592.4 per ha of full development.
6/ SI. 726,812 per ha in 50 years.  Does not include the on-farm investment.
May 4, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
15 Ha Farm Model
Monthly Agricultural Labor Requirements (man-days)
Jan     Feb     Mar      Apr     May      Jun      Jul     AUg      Sept     Oct      Nov       Dec        Total
Without Project
Cotton                          139.20  208.80  127.60   46.40   58.00  174.0   174.0    92.80   46.40                                     1,067.20
Corn                                      5.00    3.00    2.50    2.50    7.5                1.30    0.78    0.65    0.65        1.95         25.83
Sorghum                                   3.00    6.00    3.60    4.20    4.2                0.65    1.30    0.78    0.91       0.91          25.55
Other Annuals                                     12.80   25.60    9.60   24.0                                                                72.00
Pulses                                                                               2.4     2.40    1.20    3.00    1.20                     40.20
Rice                              7.36    7.36    7.36    7.82    8.28                                                 0.92     9.20          48.30
Alfalfa                          0.75    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.0         1.0     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00        1.00         11.75
Total                     147.31  225.16  157.76   86.92   83.58  210.7   177.4    98.15   50.68    5.43    4.68    13.06             1
Full Development
Cotton                          135.0   180.00  126.00   45.00   54.00  162.0   162.0    81.00   45.00                                       990.00
Corn                                     16.50    9.00    9.00    7.50   25.5         .     21.56   11.76   11.76    9.80    33.32           155.70
Sorghum                                   8.40   14.00    8.40    9.80   11.2               27.00   45.00   27.00   31.50    36.00           218.30
Rice                             29.16   29.16   29.16   30.78   34.02                                                 6.48    34.02         192.78
Pulses                                                                               1.4     1.54    0.84    1.68    0.84                      6.30
Other Annuals                                      3.00    6.00    2.70    5.4                                                                17.10
Alfalfa                           6.00    6.00    6.00    6.00    6.00    6.0        6.0     6.00    6.00    6.00    6.00        6.00         72.00
Total                     170.16  240.06  187.16  105.18  114.02  210.1   169.4   137.1   108.6    46.44   54.62   109.34             1 652.18
Available labor l
2.5 x 25                        62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5    62.5           62.5          750.00
Deficit (in % of requirement)
Without Project                  58      72       60      28       25      70       65      36         *        *                            414.00
Full Development                63       74      67       40      45       70      63       54       42         .       .      43            561.00
Er
1/  Assume:  2.5 full laborers per family, at 25 days per month.
January 17, 1979



LOWER J')0  10510001(1  71131ltalIu  H1 PtIOJIC
1,D00 Uk Pa, Ihdel
txpe.t-d F.r- D.Vt4I-nt _d Cropp-eg Pa-tern
Sittmt                                                               - _ ____   _____-  ______  ---er------------------------- -----------------~--~------------
?1gj01 '           I2                                  3               4                  5                  6                 7
Par. IlopOG
Lnd 1eil          lb.)               -             100.00             100.00           I10 
Ir-iga,.o  ld,r-  h.)                              1o00.00            100.00           110                                   -                                     _
SoIIl I inen      (1-)               -              30000      0.00    w0.             -00                          -                           -
bnd Use
OnIleXatad see.   (ha)
C-opn                              8D3.00          000.00             870.00            9.0             1,000.00           (.000.00           11000.00          I.0_60
Cr0-,,                             f07.00          615.00             622.00           6219.00            637.00             664.00            652.00             640
Curn                                40.00           51.0               72.00            170.00            140.0D             1o.00              210.00            230-D3
spru7s6                             40.00           51 00              72.00            110.00            140.00             160.00            210.00             283.00
ho e                                37.00           40.0O              48.00            53.0               6'.0D              74.00            100.C0             1i0OO8
FrI..       /                       20. 00          20.00              23.00            25.00              31.0D              40 00            5.00               54.0
G.,d.n Cops-2/1                     54 00            24.00             24.00             2S.O0             25.00              25.00              25.00             7500G
Ollar A.f,1-y                       20.00           46.00              44.00c           45.00              44. 00             43.00             42.00)             61.00
AlfalfaI-                           1 .0            15.00              13.00             10.00              8.00               4.00               2.00
Total CrrpPtt6 Aa.a (h.)           029.00          864.00             920.00          1,00N.0D          (.08000            1,190.00           1,292.) 2           VA-OD
Cropping Int-nalr 1                104             10J                106               106               109                119               129
Pendu ttin (ten,)
Cotn                               910 0o          94 .00           1,018.50          1,195.10          1,337 10           1,481 oo           1564.00           3 00D
one                                 60.00          1017.30            167.2D            38D.00            490.00             770.0             94.0             1..035-0
Sersohu4n                          112.00          153.00             241.20             0.               644.OD             918.00          1      071.0       1., 7
6k.e                               120.00          168.00             216.0D           265.00             352.00             644.0             600.00             68A.00
Pin*sa    ~                         19.00           20.00              26.50            33.00              45.00              66.00             91.80              97.20
CGd.n Ceo-21                       144.00          156.00             177.60            200.40            23D.00             265.W             310.C0             3DO.00
other A>aa1-                       7310.00         312.00             360.40            375.r0            404.80             *55.60            504.00             49Z_00
10.10f.                            3339.3D         291.50             262.10            206.60            174.00              89.30             46.40
Cross V0.15  o  Pro cti  (S/. '000)
Cotton7 181.4.07                                 75,849.67         83,904.85         92,121.89        1(3.061.68         004,175.36         120,619.40        122,05 .41
Cop,,                            1.793.60        2 629.87           4 197.02          7,38.0           10,985.80          16,142.60         21,186.9D          21,3204.11
SeP60.,                          2,553.60        3,488.40           S499.36          10.032.03         14,13.Z0           20, 930.40        24,416.s0          26,47.
11k.                             3,579.6D        5,011.44           6,443.28          7 904,95         10,500.16          13,244.52         17,896.00          19.23"9.4
p1.l.      10                      467.13          733.40             971.16          0,201.11          1 680,15           2,420.Z2         31,36.31            3,54.32
C rd,, C.p.-21                   3,040.74        3,337.4             . 17".571        4,287.316         4920.62            5,669.41          6.418,20           6,41.80
Other fna1-                      3,18D60.        3,201.12           3,1192.0          3,60 .712         4 157.25 7.676 53                     U,17106 25,067.20
Alf.10.                          3,416.75        2,935.41           2,639.35          2.807.112         1,752.18s             99.215           467.25-
550.1                           88,485.69       97.186.77         110,947.69        128,613.27        151.713.04         178,108.05        199,545.96         zj0141L6 S
Ceat o1f tn,5ip  (SI. '000)
17 584.7         t,77S.92         20,011.91          31,37.4           226772.75 n4,5.2                     27,286.20          27,Q6I._
catts                            1,2.0            147                ,9.83497                           4.671.110            I",9920          7,64.70           6,08.06
C tt                               ti 32*z      2 I t2t132  (7459.73  2411.74         4,4W                  I.           9  210               9.02.5            997S
brOs                             1,1U5.61         1,452.66 U        2092.M           2*,437.47          7,6105.76          3,7n0.86          5,697.09           11,52.11
p.1.96                             371.89l         .52,06             424.02 42.1.25                      617.6              669.20           1,167.20          (.757.02
had"sCrp                           632 .40          413.29             74.66            692.20            77.577.006.S0                                           U621.s
OtharA"   1                        96.60            854. 72           946 22             o.0 9e9 750 -2  760.3                                1.029.09          1,156
.tjro.i                            18.28 217t30                       112.11            13.26             115.96             Ill.W               22 89 
Snbtnotl                        23,360.97        25,647,21         26.173.16         33,411.5          36,423.00          14,220.21          51,0. 02          ss.421.46
pil  Lb.or                      3,51.00          37.54553          3a,567.13         39.611.52         60,194.47         41,801.74          42,939.15         44,107.70
fr-d t1. 0r                      1,470.05         1,179.22          6.,51."           7.410.92          7,706.60           6,296.59          6,933.51           9.,17.66
Tyt,l Cast                     6S.,52.02         69,272.26         24.3522.96         0.46,6 69,826.27                    94,350.54         104,6727.8        109.151.66
5/AlIsila ha. 72 5080        040
066 3. 1979



PERU
I1R PTIIR1  IRRIGATTON REHABILITATION II PROJECT
1,000 ha Farm Model
Cash Flow
(SI. 'OOOs)
With Project
Without     --------------- -------     ------------------------------    ----rYeare B--------------------------------------------------    ----------
Project        1           2            3           4             5            6            7         8-12           13           14           15
Cash Inflow
Sales           I/                88485.69    97186.77  110947.69   128913i27   151713.04   178158.05   199545.98   206408.85   206408.85   206408.85   206408.85   206408.85
Long-term Loans-                                7830.00    7830.00       8963.00
Short-term Loans-                 29101.02    32026.73   35785.83    40851.57    46131.80    52548.80    61933.53    65044.48    65044.48    65044.48    65044.48    65044.48
Total Cash Inflow                117586.71   137043.50  154563.52   178727.84   197844.84   203706.85   261479.51   271453.33   271453.33   271453.33   271453.33   271453.33
Cash Outflow
Costs                 3
Cash Farm Investments&/                         7830.00    7830.00       8963.00
Cash Production Costs-            29101.02    32026.73   35785.83    40851.57    46131.80    52548.80    61933.53    65044.48    65044.48    65044.48    65044.48    65044.48
Subtotal                        29101.02    39856.73   43615.83    49814.57    46131.80    52548.80    61933.53    65044.48    65044.48    65044.48    65044.48    650b4448
Debt Service
Short-term Loans                29974.05    32987.53   36859.40    42077.12    47515.75    54125.26    63791.54    66995.81    66995.81    66995.81    66995.81    66995.8t
Long-term Loans                                117.45      352.35       604.25       738.69       738.69      1760.55      2782.42      1952.15      2695.35       1438.62      1438.6'
Subtotal                      29974.05    33104.97   37211.75    42681.37    48254.44    54863,95    65552,09    69718.23    68947,96    69691.19    68434,43    68A434.43
Prolect Charges
Ppera-ion and Mauntenauce-    31139.83    11139.83   12738.8S    15463.92    18301.43    20477.73    21592.40    21592t4,4             21592,4ci   21592.40)    21592.40    21592';
Capital Recovery-'                 -            -         2045.37      5574.84      9431.43    12606.22    14536.24    14536.24    14536.24    1453e,24           14536.24     14536.24
Subtotal                      11l39.83    11139.83   14784.25    21038.76    27732.86    330R3.95    36128,.4    361:8 64    36128.54    36128.64   3lu1"'8.64               31262R6'
hotal Cash Outflow               70214.90      4101_.53   95611.83   11353u,70   122119.10    14r496.70  163614,2t,  170951.35   li)17L8   1'0864.3              16f9607.15   9,69>0i7'
Ner Farm Income                   47371.81    52941,91   58951.69    65193.14    75725.74    63210,15    97865.25   :00501.98   101332-`. 5            J0P859,0    101E'4 8   101844,-
Net Family Income                   296.0?       330.89      3t8.4$       40t.40       473.29       595.06       611.5e.      f23.1 4,                    F.          5lY6'        P34t
1h Forcash farminvesuTments at 3. reel interest, 12 yea  repayrent 6 5 years grace.
2/ For cash production costs at 37, real interest.
3/ 907. of farm tnvestmeents.  Remaining 107. is farmers' contribution in labtor.
4/ Production costs exclusive of family labor.
5/ Sj, 21, 592.4 per ha at full development.                                                                                                                                                ry<
6/ S/. 726,812 per ha in 50 yeAts. Does not Include *he cn fsar  investmrent.
7/ 160 families in a cooperative farr..
May 4, 1379



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
1,000 Ha Farm Model
Agricultural Labor Requirements (man-days)
Jan     Feb      Mar     Apr      May     Jun      Jul      AUR     Sep      Oct      Nov     Dec        Total
Without Project
Cotton                          9,240  13,860   8,470   3,080   3,850  11,550  11,550   6,160   3,080                                     71,110
Corn                                      360      216      180     180      540               90       54      45       45      135       1,845
Sorghum                                    180     360      216     252      252               45       90      54       63       63       1,133
Rice                              496     496      496      527     558                                                  62      620       3,255
Garden Crops                               132     276      276     276      144              276      276     276      276                2,208
Other Annuals                                      776   1,552      582   1,455       80      160       60     150                         4,815
Alfalfa                            54       72      72       72      72       72       72      72       72      72       72       72         846
Total                     9,790  15,100  10,666   5,903   5,770  14,013  11,702   6,803   3,632           597      518     890      85,384
Full Development
Cotton                          9,900  13,200   9,240   3,300   3,960  11,880  11,880   5,940   3,300                                     72,600
Corn (Ist and 2nd)                        990      540      540     450   1,530             1,540      840     840      700   2,380       10,350
Sorghum (1st and 2nd)                     600   1,000       600     700      800              780   1,300      780      910   1,040        8,510    O
Rice                            1,944   1,944   1,944   2,052   2,268                                                                     10,152
Garden Crops (1st and 2nd)                 221     455      455     455      234              420      420     420      420                3,500
Other Annuals (Ist and 2nd)                        290      580     261      522      120     240      108     216                         2,337
Alfalfa                          -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Total                     11,844  16,955  13,469   7,527   8,094  14,966  12,000   8,920   5,968   2,256   2,030   3,420    107,449
Available labor-/
160 x 2.5 x 25                 10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000    120,000
Deficit (in Z of requirement)
Without Project                  .       34        6       .       .         29    C1        .        .        .       .                      70
Full Development                 16      41       26       .       .         33     17       .        .       *        *                     133
1/  Assume:  2.5 full laborers per family, at 25 days per month.
January 17, 1979.                                                                                                                                  r
;0



_ 59 -                                 E    1
PER,
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Annual Operation and Maintenance Cr.-  (Civil Works) - O&M
(Mlillions of Soles)
z of                              Foreign
Construction Construction                Unskilled Exchange
Cost         Cost        Total        Labor   Component
Existing Infrastructure                   11,250.91/    -             306.0        22.0      177.3
per hectare cost (soles)              324,000.0        _         8,80C.0          -        -
Project Infrastructure
Main Irrigation and Flood Control    13,439.8         1.4           183.8        37.7      112.8
1.  Diversion Dam                       2,484.6      1.0            24.8         3.0       10.9
2.  Main Irrigation Canal               5,543.2      2.0           110.9         13.3      66.6
3.  Dikes             .                 4,190.2      0.75            31.4       21.4       25.1
4.  Administrative Engineering          1,221.8        -             16.7         -        10.3
Irrigation and Drainage Networks         8,503.6      2.4           199.9        59.1      107.7
a.  Irrigation Works                     4,524.4       -            118.6        14.2      68.9
i. Secondary & Tertiary
Canals                        3,587.5      2.0            71.8         8.6       43.1
ii. Lateral & Sublateral
Canals                          936.9      5.0            46.8         5.6       25.8
b.  Drainage Works                       3,210.1                     64.2        44.9      30.3
i. Main Drains                        121.5      2.0             2.4         0.2        1.6
ii. Complementary Drains             1,960.4      2.0            39.2        26.6       11.8
iii. Field Drains                     1,128.2      2.0            22.6        18.1       16.9
c.  Administrative Buildings                98.4      1.0             1.0         -         0.2
d.  Engineering & Supervision              670.7      2.4            16.1         -         8.3
Total                                     21,943.4      1,7           387.7        96.8     220.5
Physical Contingencies                     3,291.5      1.7            56.0        14.5       33.1
Total Cost                                25,234.9      1.7           443.7       111.3      253.6
Per Hectare Cost  (soles)            726,812.0                 12.0lO.O          -         -
Per Hectare Cost US$                    3,545.4                     62.3
% as of Construction Cost                              1.7
Total Per Hlectare Cost (Existing & Project)(soles)                21,800.4
1/  Share of Bajo Piura in the investment costs of the Poechos Dam and the diversion canal.
April 30, 1979



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery!!
Farm Size                                                            1.8 ha         15 ha            1,000 ha            Total
Percentage Distribution                                             45.5             4.6                49.9            Projeet
--- ---  ---S/.OOO-------- - -                  S/. Millions
1.  Gross value of production-V                                     3,664.6        30,394.8        1,926,461.5         69,530.5
2.  Less production cost                                              677.4        12,646.3          623,264.1         18,277.8
3.  Equals net income (1-2)                                         2,987.2        17,748.5        1,303,197.4         51,252.7
4.  Less - debt service on development credit]l_                       69.7            81.4            14,393.8           880.1
5.       - imputed value of management servicer4/                      -            1,519.7           96,323.1          1,847.8
6.       - imputed return on own capitaLP/                              0.6             5.2               343.8            12.1
7.       - allowance for risk and uncertaiuty_/                       366.5         3,039.5          192,646.2          6,682.3
8.  Equal  rent/surlplus                                            2,550.4        13,102.7          999,491.5         41,830.4
9.  Rent as a percentage of net cash income (8*3)                      85.4            73.8                76.7            81.6
10.  Government revenues:                                              679.0         7,279.7          503,035.9         11:736-2
(i) Operation and Maintenance7!                              377.2         3,130.4          208,692.7         193.0
(ii) Cost recovery89/                                          -            1,801.3           120,065.7         2,293.7   I
(iii) Production taxes on cotton                                301.8        2,348.0           174,257.5          690g,0      -
11.  Rent recovery index (10+8)                                         26.6            55.6                50.3            38.0 . 
12.  Public sector outlays:                                          1,685.1        14,146.0          937,272.6         32,890.4
(i) Main irrigation works                                  1,307.9        11,015.6          728,579.9         25,551.4
(ii) Operation and Maintenance                                377.2         3,130.4           208,692.7         7,339.0
13.  Cost recovery index (10+12)                                        40.3            51.5                53.7            48.0
14.  Farmers family income at full development - (soles)               418.1         1,391.9               636.5
15.  Estimated critical consumption level (1986' - (soles)S            4 1                                                 398.9
16.  Estimated GDP per family in 1986 - (solesMo                                                                         1,209.7
1/   Items 1 through 13 are in 1979 constant prices and represent incremental discounted values at 10%
rate over 50-year period.
2/  Derived from the farm models.
3/  On farm investment,  In the 1.8 ha farm, the credit is for 15 years, including a five year grace period and
10 years for repayment at 3% interest. In the 15 ha and 1,000 ha farms, the credit is for 12 years including
a five year grace period and seven years for repayment at 3Z interest.
4/  Calculated as 5% of gross value of production in cooperatives and 15 ha farms.
3/  Representsthe imputed return (10%) on the farmers share in the on-farm investment component (which is also 10%).
6/  10% of the gross value of farm production.
7/  Detived from Table 21.
'  Assuming project cost is amortized In 50 years.
9/ Corresponds to estimated relative poverty level of  a $278 at full development for the country.
to!  Corresponds to GDP per capita of US$843 at full development.
September 18, 1929:



PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Project Production Benefits-
(S./ Millions)
1               2                3             4              5             6               7              8              9             10           11-50
Without Pro ject
Gross Value of
Production                 4,442.76        4,565.76        4,565.76       4,565.44       4,645.59       4,645.59       4,645.59       4,645.59       4,645.59       4,653.71       4,653.71
Inputs, Labor & Initerest    2,171.83        2,171.83        2,171.83       2,171.83       2,171.83       2,171.83       2,171.83       2,171.83       2,171.83       2,171.83       2,171.83
Net Value of Production      2,270.93        2,393.93        2,393.93       2,393.93       2,473.76       2,473.76       2,473.76       2,473.76       2,473.76       2,481.8R       2,481.88
With Project
Gross Value of
Production                 5,078.62        6,001.45        7,421.23       9,118.38      10,309.53      11,517.10      11,732.84      11,739.34      11,739.34      11,739.34      11,830.48
Inputs                         783.11          891.70        1,068.47       1,241.92       1,391.20       1,637.35       1,689.32       1,689.32       1,689.32       1,689.32       1,68t1.32      a
Labor                        1,507.65        1,568.35        1,631.11       1,696.66       1,765.03       1,836.47       1,872.50       1,872.50       1,872.50       1,872.50       1,877.50
Interest                        23.49           26.75           32.05          37.26          41.74          49.12          50.68          50.60          50.68          50.68          50.68
Total Production Costs       2,314.21        2,486.80        2,731.63       2,975.84       3,197.97       3,522.94       3,612.50       3,612.50       3,612.50       3,612.50       3,617.50
Net Value of Production      2,764.41        3,514.65        4,689.60       6,142.54       7,111.56       7,994.16       8,120.34       8,126.84       8,126.84       8,126.84       8,217.98
Increment
Incremental Net Value
of Production                493.48        1,171.83        2,295.67       3,748.61       4,637.80       5,520.40       5,646.58       5,653.08       5,653.08       5,644.96       5, 736.. 1(
Incremental Benefits           443,90        1,293.40        2,540.40       3,993,20       3,992,70       1,407,00       5,646,60     .4,234,10        5,653.00       2,198.60           2/
_/ Economic prices.
21 Stream for years 11 to 50 are in working papers,
May 10, 1979
t,1
5k



LSll  F71004 181tiG41T3I  tli6091L1T4TION 11 PROJECT
Rat.. of tatorn Stra
70.  mIlton
1          2 I                   4          5           6           7          8           9         20           3;          1 t                   14         15          16          17         18          19          20        1L?f
IHCMdtEHTAL b8N31ITS                         443.9    1,293.4    2,540.4   3,993.2    3,992.7    1,607,0    5, 64.6    4,236.1    5,953.0    C,190.6    .392,5    0,296.3    5,736.1    5,736.1    5,736.1    4,685.1    4,296. 3    20.35.6                  n        2706. 7       3/
Main Irrigatin anod Flood Control Work    2,7857.7    4,456.7    4,282.5   1,843.0          -           -          -           .                                             '
Irrigatilon and Drainage Networ k.         1,125.5    2, 271.4    2,429.3   1,935.3    1,027.1         _           _          _           _          _           _           _          _           _           _           -          -           _
On fore Dn-nloFp-tt                           184.5      387.5       389.5     389.5       256.3       -           -           -          -           .          _           _          _           _
orblrp_t   rio18. 7                                       95.70      203.0     106.6       106.6       80.0        90.0        80.0       80.0        80.0       55.0        55.0       55.0        55.0        55.0        55.0       55.0        SS.o        55.0       55.0        55.'
Pheatc l Cr.tlgonl.                           705.2    1,115.2    1,102.9      631.4      2D3.0
Subtotal                                    5,451.1    8,628.5    8,526.1   4,905.7    1,593.0         80.0        830.0      8t.0          .0        80.0       55.0        55.0       55.0        55.0        55.0        55.0       55.0        55.0        55.0        55.0       55.7'
xIUftAHll7  OPOOA.7180 CBT
Rk Ain      OE Sarnir  1                        5.0       15.4        26.0      36.5        43.4        3.4        42.8       41.1        38.2        34.0       28.9        23.7       18.3        13.1         8.8        5.2        L27          1.3        044        -           _
Op_rottIr and Halnte-nne                       03.1      214.6       34.6      419.4       443.7      443.7       443.7      443.7       443.7       643.7      443.7       443.3      443.7       443.7       443.7      43.7        443.7       44.7        643.7      443.7       441.7
Subtotal                                       88.1      230.0       370.6     455.9       487.1      487.1       *86.5       884.8      481.9      477.7       472.6       467.4      462.0       456.8       452.5      448.9        46.4       445.0       444.1      443.7       443 7
Ner l-nrronotI 0natlt.                    (5.045.7)  (7,656.7)  (6.601.0) (2.213.0)   2,557.7    *,953.3    5,080.1         5,088.3   5,091.2    5.087.3    5,208.5    5,213.7    5,219.1    5,224.3    5,228.6    5,232.2    5,234.7    5,236.1    5,237.0    5,717.4.    5,217.4
t-noi Iara of Ret-rn                           13.50
i       "rranial "o-nfite                     749.9    1,216.3    2,469.6   4,013.6    4,068.5    2,078.1    6,020.7        4,854.3   6 037.4    2,530.6    5,673.6    4,918.4    6.164.0    6,164.0    6,104.0    5,231.6    6,918.4    3,296.9              0        3,099.1        3/
Toa1.   re.na    nat                        5,38.9    08,859.0    8,898.5   5,369.       2,086.3      572.7       372.1        570.3     567.5       563.3      932.2       S28.0      522.6       317.4       313.2      509.5       507.0'      505.4       504.71     504.3l      504.3
Not Io-ntai Sftit,                        (4,905.65   77,347.12  (6.161.89  5   3940.)   3,506.0    5,9 9         S. 6,137.4  6,146.7   6,149.3    6,253.7    6,280.2    6,284.4    6,289.8    6,295.0    6, 99. 3    6,302.9    6,3 05.    64,336.8    6,304. t,3        0 h,3    6.)D.
Xt-ntnrc lain of Ort.rn                        15.07.
11  R.iat, to rho orddlt to t (nn farm danoini ad fIid drama).              . ,-doulind oaeg.rptnn 1i that the roat intert 1i n  f.o  th  adia-ord  nwt  -t-nd for 15 yean  to 1.8 ha fOrs vth 5 yer 8rr                      - orlod, and for 12 Onra
2/ wso. hed   Prr;-d  t 70:  ppliod  tandard to0onvde3  fantora of 0.2 fan longateai, 0.93 for 08                     d ooao, .4d 0.87 for awtbi  rodife'aed i_ont eutwtoinoa.
3/  Sra   tor fevr 21 to 50 re in the wooIkief pn8.
Jong 18, 1979



-63 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 25
PERU
Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation II Project
Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return
(a)  Base                                                        15.0
(b) As (a) and delay of one year in benefits
and operating costs                                         13.0
(c) As (a) and capital costs increased by
10%                                                         13.5
(d) As (a) and operating costs increased by
10%                                                        14.7
(e) As (a) and benefits
up 10%                                               16.5
down 10%                                               13.0
(f) As (a) and cotton price
down 10%                                               14.0
down 20%                                               13.0
down 50%                                               10.0
(g) Switching values
Percent changes that would make the ERR
equal to 12% (opportunity costs of capital)
In benefits                  -16.9%
In capital costs               23.3%
In operating costs            155.8%
June 27, 1979






ANNEX 2
PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION II PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Proiect Files
Chira Piura Irrigation Water Supply Study - Summary Report, IECO, December 1967.
Integrated Development of Resources in the Tumbes Chira-Piura River Basins of
Peru, 3 volumes, IECO, May 1968.
Rehabilitation of the Lower Piura Valley - Feasibility Study, 4 volumes, IECO,
February 1969.
Proyecto de Rehabilitacion del Bajo Piura, 3 volumes, Associacion de Consultores
Proyecto Chira-Piura, October 1978.
Balance Hidrologico del sistema Chira-Piura, DEPECHP, 1978.
Reglas de Operacion del Reservorio de Poechos, DEPECHP, 1978.
Proyecto de Rehabilitacion del Bajo Piura, Analisis de.Precios Unitarios,
Costos Horarios y Rendimientos, MAA - Direccion Ejecutiva del Proyecto
Especial Chira-Piura, December 5, 1978.
Proyecto de Rehabilitacion del Bajo Piura - Metrados de Todos los Sistemas
de Riego del Bajo Piura, DEPECHP, December 5, 1978.
Bases Para Licitacion y Especificaciones Tecnicas, Asociacion de Consultores
Chira-Piura, July, 1978.
Costos Actualizados de Canales Laterales y Sublaterales de Riego y Obras a
Nivel Predial, DEPECHP, March 1979.
Sistemas Secundarios y Terciarios de Riego, Costos Analisis de Precios
Unitarios a Diciembre de 1978, March 1978.
Rehabilitacion Bajo Piura - Canal Principal de Riego Estudio Previo -
Informe Final, ENERGOPROJEKT, 1978.
Proyecto de Estudios de Diques de Proteccion a lo Largo del Rio Piura y
Regulacion del Rio Piura, Corbin, May 1979.
Pima S4, Variedad Algodon, Ministerio de Alimentacion N2 4, Peru, May 1976.
Nuevo Linaje de Algodonero Pima S4, Ministerio de Alimentacion N 8, Peru,
May 1977.



ANNEX 2
0
Variedades de Arroz, Ministerio de Alimentacion N- 1, Peru, April 1976.
-    Recomendacion para el Cultivo del Arroz Campana 78-79, MAA,
May 1978.
-    Sorgo Grano, Ministerio de Alimentacion N- 1, Peru, May 1976.
Desarrollo Ganadero del Bajo Piura, Samanez-Piqueraz, Lima, February 1979.
Republica Peruana - Ley General de Aguas y Sus Reglamentos, 1976.
Memorandum Report - Soil and Salinity - Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitat
Project, Charles Bower, December 15, 1979.
Lower Piura Rehabilitation Project, Water Resources and Irrigation Systems,
A. Kogan, January 1979.
Memorandum Report - Follow-up Appraisal of Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabili-
tation II Project, William R. Johnston, March 19, 1979.



PERU
LOWER FIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Investment Period
Item                                      Unit  Quantity                         . .
1979         1980         1981          1982         1983          1984         1985          1986
Main Irrigation and Flood Control Works
Final Design
Construction
Diversion Dam                          No.         1.0                  (40%)        (60%)
Main Irrigation Canal                  Km         40.0                  l5.01        (15.0)
Flood Protection Dikes                 Km         66.4                               (25.0)   |   l25.0)        (164)
Irrigation and Drainage Network
Final Designi1_
Construction                                                             (20)         (45)         (55)           (40)    I     30)
Secondary and Tertiary Canals          Km        190.0                 l)5) 
Lateral and Sublateral Canals          Km      1,170.0                (100)        (290)         (290,         (2901         (200)
Main Drains                             Km        15.0                                                          (15)
Complementary Drains                    Km       415.0                 (80)        (100)       | (125)        11101
Field Drains2l                          Km     1,070.0                                           (2701         1270)         (265)
Bulildings                             M.      2,900.0                     530        207           2003
Oni-Farm Works2                                                          12.00
Irrigation Ditches                     Ha      20,930                      0)
Land Levelline       I-I                              l~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~2,1  I  (5,200)     F5,-200l1l3,230)
Leaching                               Ha      3720,3                    4 701                                  700     t
Equipment                               Ginhal ob   2  ;                                              -       N            I
Suppoit Servir es & CoTsIltants
Aqrcuit(ura  Extension
Lanri Rirciamaetiori _       
Consulting Services                 |                                             -
Feuisibility Studjies                                                                                                    I
Tra)rrnr                                     i            27                                      -ij
Agricuitural Developrent
(290901)   __294570                                               132 503002
ultivated Area                        I H-a                  4         27            2 4         1  9                    i                    2 ) j      I ? .
Cropped AreA                            Ha               i2                                                                    170         43 I         401I
Cropping interisity                                       i006i         (107)   |        I "I     (122i   |     !25;          1128)        I130)       i   135 
1I Secorndaty anid tertiary canals, main and complementary drains.
21 Design arid censtrucnon concur!ent.
ADii1 17, 1979                                                                                                                                   W   I Rnir  20.M;






PERU
LOWER PIURA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 11 PROJECT
Organization Chart
MAIN OFFICE                                                                                            DIRECTOR
PERUVIAN AGRICULTURAL  ANKICULTURE AND FOOD
_                                                                        ~Z
DIRECTOR                                 DIRECTOR                           OTIIFR MAA Ar;FNC;I',
PIURA BrANCH                                                            INDEPENDENT AGENCIES                    AGRARIAN ZONE - PIURA                             DEPERTC
Shorsterm Credit               ~~~~DIRECTOR                                                          Fornmers' Organ,zaton                      Cooperation tn                             CENCIRA
Long-term Credit                           DEPECHP                *    FUNDEAL: Cotton DeveloPment             Regional Production Programming            Draiage and Lant d Reclainat,on            ENCI Mvrkqt
(on-term  nvestments)                                                  UNP  Training Research                  Water Allocation                           Feesibility Studies                        EPSA  Marketing nitr cn
Regional Extension Plans                  Training                                   INIA  Reili
PROGRAMMING OFF ICE
ADMINISTRATIVE                                                            Programming and Budgeting
SERVICES                                                              Monitoring
Reporting
INTERNAL
AUDIT
LAND RECLAMATION                  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                        STUDIES AND WORKS                   OPERA1'ION AND MAINTENACE
DIRECTORATE                             DIRECTORATF                               DIRECTORATE                               DIRECTORATE
Drainage and On-laim Works Drigns       Protect Prornotion                            Desgn of Irriqation Works                 Ponchos Reservoir
Construc,ton ot Firdk Diaiis .          Aqiruilniretl Extension                      D'esi n 01 Iati  Wpvsoal
Coistruct~~~ ~ ~ ionx Assitanc toCvlta Frsearchis
Co    n stSucot- AI,istaoet .            Prooion Agvicultial Research                  of Construcoi"n                          Lower Piura Drainage and
Watin aid So9 Lalo.ato,v                 Pnrcess iq of Credit Applications
l o, Farmers                                                                             Irtaio1ok
Monintor,nn  Agyiculttural Production  |
W,I   l,l 11,, ...:.i*






IBRD 14158
*  ToToorhev  81~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00'                ( 0030'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 -~~~~                         MM 1979~~~~MA 17
(ra /ora                                                                                              PO CHOS
=                                                                                                                                               \? HECNDM~~~~~~~~~~~PE
CH/ RA/V                      Z E   y                                              F                                     .ic /
PA C/fIC
PIU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
>                                    ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~CATACAOS DIVV                                                                                               P  I Ug   R  A
ICL-JA'  \'R A                                                                                       ju
\> >t  NaP44X6t@6on                                ~~~~Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabil'tation II Project
|..CHIRAPIURASAN LORENZO SYSTEM
PROJECT
\ ] 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L..., P,ur. (proIe,t area)                                    7I        rr,g.t,on cora.-
\                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD F-oced  'acs   -   hi,.aVolley
\                                                *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No-IBRD Fiacdoc5 :._ San Lo,en"o
,0    5    10   1,5   20    25      3     35 4                                                                                            N.,IBRD Fi ...ced Di,-ri-n doms1          Upper Piura
Kl iI//Xt RSPERUEXISTING:                                                                             Mddle P
10    5         2F0 nce  Canols                                                                                                                       ,-    Chir Vlley
Dresm h2-rr>7bx Yordr/tdrrrArrtNlrrarcrPon ed  roods
O   5    10   15   20                         -                                                                                   %    Xvon-IBRD P,nn n,ed DiveKbion dorns        UppernPDums
ucwrprp cobrweir ooare         sf ,00'                                                              eo,0                                                                   0-,00, 






PERU
Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation IT Project                                                      -        
F AJET w/CEO S rlro .0 cvlsrPIURA,t=
-                    Mocn ,cqoIE on con -
-             To Ie rehob,l,roted F  2 .  ....R _
N-e
Teroary caols;
Secondary dra-ns
zvPior  R-oec
_-     FolEcer;,EE
=mi                TEnerseor dor NG sW'> /l_        ;\ t   e-              ,                                                       .o 
Flood pc-teot.o- dokes 0.n                                           11 _                                          /
0-;iSend dores llorrorof alley]         3g $             /                            Anno     =                 / -/47  I
rIO~~_, ,  PoOE  '             ,f  /, o.                                                   0oA
D     !     2         3         4                c                        r.  --                 tA-  T      t      X            |( J  /    -- ' T* I
, ! 2 MiLES ?4                                        S                                                                          ';;/  K  
i -i -d.
Oth-            - .n.d,~#o                        e0~T         N~
a, .t-                      t'      0,                                                                    f
cA ovc                
000s r  / =&    t Spc4 /4KN  t   LI$II=VI\/                 _       .        -   -=8              t'LA ARENA  4 V nf
; f   I   // /t                  ~fb                =_        /=I T,                                      _     _\                 1
C-
/,  bX i f ;04 ft:E Ce F ! voOdvr                                   9               j       4>              /
~~~~~~~~~~/7                                                                    4     c/o    '  *.\icjnf rL.
~~~~~~~~0t                                                                                                             K .e..r<.be ....   
lioCt>c0occ                                                                                         _ -'                                            2
C-.'~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Lk... ~~                                         ./ 
0/1  /  ~~~~                    Nt          11                        OvedoopWPr                   P~~~~~~A
cc  ~~~~~~~~                                                                             0>~~~A
7150        KE
AA)~~~~~~~"                                                                                       
t                                                    1        0
1                                    -r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000.0110oo1 0k 00000o4o0  0000



