Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21498
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24100)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 39.6 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 2410-PAK)
PROJECT ID: P010405
December 12, 2000
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 11, 1992)
Currency Unit = Pak Rupee (PRs)
Rs 1.00 = USS 0.0392
US$ 1.00 = Rs 25.5
At Completion (June 30, 2000): US$ 1.00 = Rs 52.3
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 --   June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CCA             Canal Commanded Area
CPPR            Country Portfolio Performance Review
DBG             Drainage Beneficiary Group
FO              Farmer Organization at Distributary Canal Level
FGW             Fresh Groundwater
GOP             Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab        Government of Punjab
ICSDs           Interceptor-cum-Subsurface Drains
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IWASRI          International Waterlogging and Salinity Research Institute
IWMI            International Water Management Institute
MAF             Million Acre Feet
MW&P            Ministry of Water and Power
M&E             Monitonng and Evaluation
MTR             Mid-termn Review
NRAP            Netherlands Research Assistance Project
NDP             National Drainage Program Project
OFWM            On-Farm Water Management
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
PAD             Punjab Agriculture Department
PAPs            Project Affected Persons
PID              Punjab Irrigation Department
PIDA            Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Authority
RAP             Resettlement Action Plan
ROW             Right of Way
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SCARP           Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SMO             SCARP Monitoring Organization
TA              Technical Assistance
WAPDA           Water and Power Development Authority
WMED            Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate of WAPDA
WUA             Water Users Association at watercourse level
W/C             Watercourse
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimiizu
Country Director:    John W. Wall
Sector Director:    Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader:    Usman Qamar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                             1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                     3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                       9
6. Sustainability                                                                          10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          11
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                          14
9. Partner Comments                                                                        15
10. Additional Information                                                                18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                       19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     35
Annex 8. Status of Resettlement Action Plan                                               36
Annex 9. Borrowers Evaluation Report                                                      42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010405                                        Project Name: EAST.SADIQIA SO PHAS
Team Leader: Usman Qamar                                   TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 12, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: EAST.SADIQIA SO PHAS                            L/C/TFNNumber: 24100
CountryIDepartment: PAKISTAN                                              Region. South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/19/88                                 Effective.  10/01/92           03/29/93
Appraisal:  06/29/91                                   MTR. 03/31/95              03/31/97
Approval:  07/02/92                                 Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/2000
Borrower/implementing Agency: Islamic Republic of Pakistan /WAPDA/PID/PAD
Other Partners: International Water Management Institute
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                             D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                                Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:       Ridwan Ali                                 Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:   Usman Qamar                                P. Streng and Masood Ahmad
ICR Primary Author:   Usman Qamar
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1   The main objectives of the project were to: (i) raise agricultural production, employment and
income; (ii) reduce the need for expensive subsurface drainage and environmentally harmfiul effects related
to such drainage; (iii) improve the equity of water distribution; (iv) develop models for integrated irrigated
agriculture management involving a "demand based" system and farmer participation; and (v) improve the
capability of WAPDA and GOPunjab to plan, implement, operate and maintain similar projects.
3.1.2  The objectives were clear and in line with Government's priorities and the Bankrs cotuntry
assistance and sector strategies, that supported poverty alleviation through productivity increases,
participatory approaches to development, cost sharing, and institution building to enhance sustainability.
While the objectives were somewhat complex, in that they required coordinated efforts by various agencies,
they were within their demonstrated capacity, and an effective mechanism for coordination was included in
the project design.
3.1.3  Key Features of Project Area. The project area is located in one of the poorest parts of Punjab.
Because of high incidence of waterlogging, GOP had classified it as a "disaster area". The project covers a
gross area of 121,000 hectares (ha), of which 105,000 ha are commanded by the Eastern Sadiqia Canal
--one of the twenty four main canals in Punjab. The total population of the area was 242,000 inhabitants in
1990. Over 85% of the farms were less than 10 ha, with 54% below 5 ha. The average farm size was 5.8
ha in 1990.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained essentially unchanged. However, objective number (iv) was restated as follows to
sharpen the project focus on institutional reforms and participatory irrigation management: "develop
models for Farmer Organizations at the distributary canal level, who would be responsible for operation
and maintenance (O&M) and collection of water charges."
3.3 Original Components:
(i) Water Conservation Measures; (ii) Surface Drainage; (iii) Irrigation and Drainage Research and field
trials for subsurface drainage; (iv) Monitoring & Evaluation; and (v) Technical Assistance & Training &
preparation of a future project.
3.4 Revised Components:
Field trials indicated that interceptor drains would not intercept sufficient amount of seepage water from
canals to be economically viable. Evaluation of interceptor drains installed elsewherc in the country further
indicated that their O&M was not sustainable in the public sector. In view of these findings, during the
mid-term review, this component was replaced with a pilot for farmer-managed interceptor-cum-subsurface
drains. Farmers were required to contribute 10% of the capital cost and be responsible for O&M. The
other project components remained unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entiy:
3.5.1   Satisfactory. The project was consistent with Govenmment's priorities and the Bank's country
assistance and sector strategies. It piloted key elements of a then evolving new irrigation/drainage sector
strategy in Pakistan that focused on institutional reforms and decentralization of irrigation management
with emphasis on farmer participation. The emphasis on institutional development was bold, innovative and
ahead of its time. The original project proposal was for a conventional tile drainage intervention.
Fundamental changes were, however, agreed during appraisal. A revised and technically innovative design
-2 -



that sought to alleviate waterlogging problems through "preventive" (water conservation, improved
management and surface drains) rather than more expensive "curative" measures (subsurface drainage) was
agreed upon. To minimize risks that accompany introduction of new approaches and technology, technical
assistance and an organically linked package of research components were included to: (i) compensate for
the lack of past experience in certain specialized fields (e.g. canal lining with geo-membrane); (ii) provide
opportunities for making adjustments in design based on implementation experience and research findings;
and (iii) refine critical elements in the planning and design of irrigation and drainage projects. Indeed, the
project components were modified during implementation based on feed-back from research and field trials.
The project design complied with Bank's safeguard policies regarding Cultural Property and Environment.
3.5.2  But for the following shortcomings, the quality at entry could have been rated as highly
satisfactory. Firstly, the appraisal assumed that a surface drainage network would be completed in the
project area as part of another ongoing government funded project. While assurances were obtained from
GOP to this effect, the risk of funding shortfalls was underestimated. Subsequently, during implementation
it became apparent that, due to fiscal constraints, the WAPDA would be unable to complete the surface
drain network, within the required time frame. At GOP's request these drains were added to the project
scope, increasing the land acquisition requirements substantially. While a resettlement action plan was
agreed and implemented successfully, the Credit Closing Date had to be extended by one year to
accommodate the resulting delay. Secondly, although extensive field investigations were carried out to
underpin technical aspects prior to finalizing the revised project design, seepage tests on canals were not
carried out until actual implementation had commenced. Partly as a result of this, some channels with
relatively low seepage ended up being unnecessarily lined with geo-membrane. Finally, a somewhat overly
ambitious covenant was included in the project, requiring the Punjab Irrigation Department (PID) to
achieve 100% O&M cost recovery on a sector wide basis, within six years, starting from a low base of
less than 30%. While the spirit of this covenant was right, in retrospect it seems that such covenants are
more suitable for sector/program type loans rather than relatively small specific investment loans. Not
surprisingly, GOPunjab was able to meet this covenant only partially. At the end of the project the O&M
cost recovery was 40 percent of total expenditures.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/lchievement of objective:
4.1.1   The project has achieved most of its development objectives and is likely to achieve satisfactory
development results. Its overall outcome is satisfactory. Current status of achievement of each
development objective is sununarized below.
4.1.2 Increasing Agricultural Production, Employment and Farm Incomes. Despite some delays in
the completion of some project components, these objectives are being achieved satisfactorily. With the
completion of surface drains, parts of the project area (including small towns and numerous
villages/localities), where pools of stagnant water used to be a year-round feature, have been drained out
and lands reclaimed. Surveys carried out by IWMI staff indicate that some of these lands are now being
cropped after several decades. Water availability at the farm gate has increased by approximately 25%, as
a result of project supported water conservation measures. Lowering of the water table and increased
water availability are both contributing to agricultural productivity. During 1999 yields of cotton increased
by over 52%, and in 1999/2000, the yield of wheat increased by 58%. Annual incremental production
attributable to the project is estimated at 32,000 tons of wheat, 14,000 tons of cotton, and 310,000 tons of
fodder, at full development. Additional farm employment generated by increased agricultural activities is
estimated at one million labor days per year. Farm incomes are estimated to increase by 30% at full
development. These increases are comparable to those estimated at appraisal. Farmer organizations (FOs)
- 3-



are now contributing to extension and productivity enhancement activities in the project area, including
land leveling, bulk purchase and sale of fertilizers and pesticides. Tree plantation is also envisaged during
the next few years.
4.1.3   Reducing Need For Subsurface Drainage. This objective has been largely met. Without the
project, waterlogging was increasing at a galloping pace. About 10,000 hectares of cultivable land were
being affected each year. Canal lining and watercourse improvements have effectively reduced water
seepage. The surface drains are helping to evacuate rain water during storm events and intercepting
groundwater in areas with high water table. The extent of waterlogged area (water table depths up to 1.5
meters) has reduced from nearly 80 % of the project area in 1997 to 24 % in 2000 (see water table maps).
Besides the project interventions, lower than average rainfall during the last two years, has also helped to
achieve this rapid reduction in waterlogging. The International Waterlogging and Salinity Research
Institute (IWASRI) estimates that sub-surface drainage would now be required over an area of about
50,000-75,000 acres, as compared to a potential requirement of 175,000 acres estimated in the project's
feasibility report.
4.1.4  Improving Equity of Water Distribution. This objective has been largely achieved. Before the
project was completed, the distributary canals in the project area were being run on an 8-day rotational
basis because of various physical and operational constraints. This mode of operation was generally
perceived by farmers as being unreliable and inequitable. Some distributary canals received more while
others received less than their "authorized shares". Variations from "authorized" discharges ranged from
45% shortfalls to 235% excesses. Intra-distributary inequities were also widespread. Head-enders
tampered with outlets and extracted more water than their authorized shares, leaving the tail-enders high
and dry. The project has put in place a high quality irrigation infrastructure, including lined distributary
canals, improved water control structures, remodeled outlets, and improved watercourses. It is now
possible to run the distributary canals on a continuous basis and provide more equitable water deliveries to
the tail reaches of canals and watercourses. A continuous canal operation regime has been adopted with
the understanding that rotational canal operation would be resorted to on an exceptional basis, during
periods of extreme water shortage only. FOs are now responsible for intra-distributary canal water
distribution on three of the five distributary canals in the project area. Equity of water distribution is one
of the major items on their agenda. Surveys by consultants and IWMI have shown that there are
practically no incidents of tampering of water-outlets on the canals managed by FOs. The "delivery
performance ratio" (DPR) [ratio of actual to authorized flows in outlets] is close to 1, indicating that, all
outlets, including those at the tail, now receive their respective authorized shares of water.
4.1.5  Pilot Farmer Organizations. This important objective has been largely met. The project has
successfully pre-tested and piloted some of the key elements of the ongoing institutional reforms in the
irrigation sector in Pakistan that are based on the principles of participatory irrigation management. A
legal framework has been formally issued in the form of "Rules and Regulations for Farmer Organizations"
under the PIDA Act of 1997. According to these Rules, irrigators at each watercourse (tertiary channels)
form a water user association (WUA) and elect an executive committee, including a president. The
presidents of WUAs on a distributary canal constitute the "electoral college" that elects the Executive
Committee of the FO at the distributary canal level. The FOs thus established are formally registered
under the PIDA Act. A formal Irrigation Management Transfer Agreement (IMTA) is signed between the
FO and PIDA. The IMTA assigns full responsibility for O&M and collection of abiana (water charges)
and other functions previously performed by the Executive Engineer of PIDA to the FOs. The FOs collect
water charges from the irrigators, retain 40% of the proceeds for meeting O&M costs of the distributary
canal, and pass on the remaining 60% to PIDA, for the O&M of the irrigation system upstream.
- 4 -



4.1.6 Based on the above legal framework, FOs have been formed on three distributary canals. IMTAs
were signed and responsibility was turned over to these three FOs, in May 2000. One of these distributary
canals has 124 outlets (watercourses) serving 4,500 farmers on an area of approximately 18,000 ha,
making it the largest distributary canal managed by FOs in Asia. This is the first ever irrigation
management transfer in Pakistan. Initially, after the turnover, FOs faced difficulties arising from actual (or
perceived) inequities of water distribution between distributary canals managed by FOs and those still
managed by PIDA. The FOs believed that their distributary canals were not getting the fair share of water
while the distributary canals that were still under the control of PIDA, were being accorded preferential
treatment. However, the champions of the reforms in PIDA, addressed such issues swiftly, through
administrative measures (including staff transfers) and the situation improved. Although only limited time
has elapsed since the turnover, key positive outcomes are already evident: improved equity of water
distribution; improved O&M cost recovery (assessed water charges are 10-15% higher than in the past);
and improved & cost-effective O&M. FOs are also evolving innovative ways of further improving O&M
cost recovery. For example, there is a proposal that water charges should be on a flat rate linked to size of
land-holdings, instead of being based on matured crop acreage, as currently practiced. The current system
leaves room for under-reporting of area of matured crop acres, which results in low assessment &
recoveries.
4.1.7  In addition to the distributary canal FOs, three drainage beneficiary groups (DBGs) were also
established in highly waterlogged pockets of land in the project area. These DBGs have set an example
how sustainable sub-surface drainage programs can be implemented in Pakistan in future (see para
4.2.2.1). This model is being replicated under the Bank-assisted National Drainage Program (NDP)
Project.
4.2 Otttputs by components:
4.2.1  The SAR specified only physical targets for project components. Except for estimates of water
savings from water conservation measures, outputs by component and related performance indicators were
not specified. Performance indicators (Annex 1) were, however, retrofitted during the implementation
phase. The performance and outputs of each project component are summarized below.
4.2.2 Water Conservation Measures. This component was designed to (i) remove severe water
constraints, by improving delivery efficiency of canals & watercourses, and (ii) reduce seepage to
groundwater to help arrest the onslaught of waterlogging. Altogether 91,000 acre-feet of water was
expected to be saved annually. These were to be "real" water savings, because the subsurface water in the
project area is generally highly saline. Water that seeps down to the water table is "permanently lost" for
irrigation. The works comprised installation of 280 Km of interceptor drains along larger canals, lining of
about 170 Km of distributary and minor canals, and improvement of approximately 340 watercourses. As
summarized below, the performance of water conservation measures ranged from satisfactory (watercourse
improvement, pilot interceptor drains) to marginally satisfactory (canal lining). On balance it was
satisfactory.
4.2.2.1 Interceptor Drains. Due to the reasons given in paragraph 3.4, during the MTR, this component
was replaced with a pilot for farmer-managed interceptor-cum-subsurface drains (ICSDs) in pockets of
highly waterlogged land along canals. Drainage beneficiary groups (DBGs) were established through a
structured community mobilization program at three locations. Waterlogging and the accompanying loss of
land productivity were the main factors that encouraged farmers to participate. The DBGs participated
during all stages of planning, design and construction. Despite low incomes and lack of access to
micro-credit (not part of project), they mobilized capital resources (some farmers even sold cattle heads) to
- 5 -



contribute 10% of the capital cost up-front, and assumed full responsibility for O&M. Cost-effective and
farmner-friendly designs based on locally available technology were developed for the ICSDs that comprised
of an interconnected grid of subsurface tile drains and interceptor drains, designed to yield water of a
quality that could be used for irrigation after mixing with canal water. The pilot was successfully
completed and has yielded highly satisfactory results in terms of land reclamation and productivity
increases. Indeed, it has provided a model for undertaking sustainable subsurface drainage investments in
the country. It has also brought to the fore issues relevant to up-front capital cost sharing, including the
need for: i) linking such operations with micro-credit facilities, and (ii) devising more innovative
approaches that take into account the social and financial disparities between small and large farmns and
different income groups.
4.2.2.2 Canal Lining. Conventional "rigid canal lining" (concrete/brick) had been a controversial subject
in Pakistan on several accounts: type of lining, methods of construction, capital and O&M costs, extent of
water losses saved, and economic life. Conventional lining while being initially effective against seepage,
deteriorates over time. Seepage losses gradually increase, reaching as high as those from unlined canals, in
the worst cases. The objective of including canal lining as a project component was, thus, two-fold: (i)
provide "production lining" to reduce seepage losses in a sustainable manner; and (ii) carry out
"experimental lining" to explore ways of lining canals more effectively and at lower costs. To build
consensus on the technology to be used, a panel of experts (POE) was constituted. The POE reviewed
approximately one hundred intemational technical papers on canal lining and proposed the state-of-the-art
technology involving geo-membrane (for water tightness) protected by geo-textile and hard cover of
concrete for production lining. The experimental lining comprised nine basic types of lining, each with
several variants. A monitoring program to measure pre- and post-lining seepage rates was made an integral
of the project. This had never been done in the past in Pakistan. Pre-lining seepage tests based on different
methods, yielded widely varying results, and controversies arose about the reliability of the results.
Meanwhile, procurement processes moved forward and PID awarded lining contracts. Subsequently, when
it became clear that seepage rates were generally much lower than estimated in the project's feasibility
report, some of the smaller channels were lined without geo-membrane to reduce costs. Civil works
proceeded smoothly and workmanship was of intemational/high quality. Post-lining seepage tests
confirmed that the production lining had virtually eliminated seepage. Total water savings from
distributary canal lining are estimated to be approximately 26,000 acre-feet (AF) of water, per year, at the
farm gate. Because of lower than expected losses from unlined canals, and cost increases, due to various
reasons, the production lining proved to be economically marginal (ERR of 9.2%). On the other hand, the
experimental lining has yielded valuable results, which provide a basis for designing future canal lining
programs more economically. The Tarim Basin Project in China has already benefited from these
experiences. This project includes the largest canal lining work worldwide, comprising some 450 Km of
lining based on geo-membrane technology, in areas with high seepage losses.
4.2.2.3 Watercourse Improvements. The achievements of this component are satisfactory. Altogether
415 watercourses were improved against the original project target of 340 watercourses. Besides yielding
substantial water savings, this component also helped to enhance farmer participation. Water Users
Associations (W-UAs) formed at the watercourse level served as nuclei for the formation of FOs at the
distributary canal level. Farmers contributed skilled and unskilled labor and 25%-30% of the cost of
materials. Planning, design and construction was carried out with full farner participation at each stage.
Initially, farmers' share of watercourse material costs was to be recovered in installments. This, however,
proved difficult to manage and recoveries were slow. As of June 30, 2000, 64% of the amounts due had
been recovered. Because of these difficulties and the high administrative costs associated with the recovery
mechanism, during the last two years of project implementation, farmers were required to pay their
contribution for materials up-front. While this change initially slowed down progress, farmers gradually
- 6 -



accepted the principle of up-front contribution and the physical targets were completed on schedule.
4.2.2.4 Watercourse improvement versus canal lining. The results from this project reconfirm that
watercourse improvements yield high returns, reflecting improved conveyance efficiencies -- not just from
reduced seepage losses, but also from reduction in "operational losses" (spillage, breaches, leakage from
farm turn-outs and rodent holes, etc.). These relatively simple and low cost investments also help promote
farmer participation in irrigation management. The results also reconfirm that viability of canal lining
investments --aimed at reducing seepage losses-- depends on several site specific factors, including extent
of seepage losses, depth and quality of groundwater table, value of the water, O&M costs of unlined and
lined canals, and cost of lining. These factors must be fully evaluated before embarking upon major canal
lining investments. In general, the more expensive lining (involving geo-membrane with hard cover) is
viable only in those areas that have relatively high water losses and where the value of water is high.
4.2.3.1 Surface Drains. The achievements of this component are satisfactory, despite initial
implementation delays. The scope of work increased almost two-fold during implementation. The
downstream end of the surface drainage network, that was originally to be funded entirely by the
Govemment outside the project, was included in project to ensure its timely completion. Except for one
surface drain, which could not be completed due to litigation between WAPDA and the contractor, the
physical achievements exceeded the original project targets. The remaining work on this incomplete drain,
which was to cover less than 10 percent of the project area, is being completed under an ongoing
Govenmment funded project. The surface drains have already provided considerable relief to waterlogged
areas. It is estimated that the combined impact of water conservation measures and surface drains would
result in lowering of water table by approximately one foot per year.
4.2.3.2 Implementation of the resettlement action plan (RAP) was generally satisfactory. Payment of
compensation proceeded satisfactorily. Overdue arrears for land acquired before the project, were also
cleared. Project affected persons (PAPs) who had been waiting for years for land compensation were paid.
At Credit closing, land compensation was over 95% completed. Measures for economic rehabilitation of
PAPs, who suffered a decline in incomes as a result of land acquisition, are being implemented under the
ongoing Bank-assisted National Drainage Program Project, and scheduled for completion by December
2001. The Bank is continuing to supervise the RAP, under the NDP project (see Annex 8).
Environmental safeguards were satisfactorily implemented. Based on the findings of archaeological and
environmental surveys, the evaporation ponds were relocated to avoid inundation of sites of archaeological
or cultural significance, and to maintain a safe distance from agricultural areas and known fresh
groundwater aquifers. Some sites that could not be by-passed, were excavated to retrieve archaeological
remains (mainly potsherds). These excavations were funded by the project and supervised by accredited
archaeologists. Environmental monitoring is continuing under the NDP project.
4.2.4 Research and Field Trials. The achievements of this component are highly satisfactory. The
overall objective of this component was to refine the critical elements of planning and design of irrigation
and drainage projects in the region. Emphasis was placed on research questions that integrate the
improvement of water use efficiency with improved water and land management. An organically linked
package of research components was developed and successfully implemented under the guidance of an
Umbrella Technical Group, which included representatives of several leading research institutions in
Pakistan as well as the International Water Management Institute (IWMI). The main areas of research
included: (i) evaluation of impact of waterlogging and soil salinity on crop production; (ii) assessment of
performance of different types of canal lining; (iii) introduction of improved technology for planning and
monitoring of irrigation and drainage projects, and land and water conditions; (iv) development and
dissemination of improved irrigation and agronomic practices; and (v) field trials for subsurface and
-7-



interceptor drains to develop design parameters and test performance of various drain envelope materials.
Over twenty good quality research publications/reports were produced, some of which were presented at
international seminars and workshops. Some follow-up research work is continuing under the National
Drainage Program Project. These research outputs were of immediate practical use in the project and will
also help in the design of future irrigation and drainage projects in Pakistan and elsewhere.
4.2.5  Pilot Farmer Organizations. The achievements of this component are highly satisfactory. The
outstanding success of the component for pilot farmer organizations has been described in paras 4.1.5-4.1.7
above. Indeed, the success of this component has encouraged GOPunjab and other provincial governments
to move ahead with the sector-wide institutional reforms more confidently.
4.2.6 Monitoring and Evaluation. The achievements of this component are satisfactory. Besides
monitoring implementation progress, the monitoring activities included: (i) monitoring of land and water
conditions; (ii) monitoring of field trials; (iii) agro-economic impact monitoring; and (iv) environmental
monitoring. Timely feed back from monitoring activities made it possible to make modifications in project
components during implementation. Environmental and archaeological surveys culminated in the
re-location of the evaporation ponds site. WAPDA is continuing selected monitoring activities after project
completion under the NDP Project.
4.2.7  Technical Assistance and Training. The achievements of this component are generally
satisfactory. Technical assistance was included in the project for (i) engineering design and contract
management inputs; (ii) community mobilization; and (iii) independent monitoring of the RAP. Consulting
firms provided services for (i) and (ii) while a socio-economic research organization monitored the RAP.
The performance of the engineering consultants was mixed but satisfactory on balance. Turn-over of key
staff and reluctance of some expatriate personnel from being stationed in remote areas, contributed to
implementation delays. Further, the designers could have paid greater attention to advocating more cost
effective designs (e.g. lining without geo-membrane, geo-membrane lining without hard-cover, etc.) or
reducing the extent of lining for areas where seepage rates were low. The performance of technical
assistance for social mobilization and monitoring of RAP was satisfactory. Training under the project
focused on exposing policy makers and implementing agency staff to successful experiences of
participatory irrigation management in other countries, notably Mexico. These visits helped to create
support for institutional reforms amongst policy makers.
4.2.8  Project Implementation period. Designed as a seven-year operation, the project was completed
with one-year delay, due to reasons explained earlier. This performnance compares favorably with other
operations, particularly those involving involuntary land acquisition, in the irrigation sector in Pakistan.
Nevertheless, there is a growing concern that long implementation periods reduce the pressure on
implementing agencies to achieve efficient and timely completion. Consideration, therefore, needs to be
given to dividing longer duration projects into independent stand-alone projects of shorter duration.
Similarly, projects that involve (i) extensive field investigations, or related research and development work,
that must be completed before commencement of the main project components, and/or (ii) substantial
involuntary land acquisition, should be considered for implementation in two phases. The first phase being
devoted to investigations and land acquisition, and the second to physical implementation.
4.3 Net Present Valte/Economnic r ate of retutrn:
The economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 22% at appraisal and 20% at MTR. Net present
value and ERRs of individual components were not estimated at appraisal or the MTR. The re-estimated
ERR at completion is 17.7%, while the NPV at 12% discount rate is estimated at Rs 1234 million in year
2000 prices. The ERR for individual components are: Canal lining 9.2%, watercourse improvement
-8 -



59.8%, surface drains 13.7%, and pilot farmer managed interceptor-cum-subsurface drains 18.%. Annex 3
includes further details and sensitivity analysis.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Return to Farmer Investment. Farmers contributed 10% of the capital cost of interceptor drains and
approximately 50% of the cost of watercourse improvements. The financial rate of return on farmers'
equity is estimated to be over 70% for both these investments.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Besides successfully piloting the sector wide institutional reforms (paras 4.1.5 -- 4.1.7) the project also
contributed to the strengthening of implementing agencies. WAPDA, PID, and the Directorate General of
Water Management (DGWM) --the three principal implementing agencies-- were exposed to new
technologies and good practices in various fields, including: (i) canal lining with geo-membrane; (ii)
participatory irrigation management; (iii) environmental surveys and monitoring; (iv) cultural heritage
awareness; (v) land acquisition and resettlement, and (vi) comnnunity mobilization. These good practices
are gradually being mainstreamed in these organizations. Finally, various participating research and
monitoring institutions, benefited from IWMI's close involvement in the project. For example, WAPDA's
Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate was introduced to the use of remote sensing and GIS
in Monitoring & Evaluation. The project thus successfully intermediated knowledge and technology.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The influence of outside factors has been mixed. An agreed policy framework for land acquisition and
resettlement was not in place at the time of project approval. Although subsequently a resettlement action
plan was agreed between the Bank and Government, award of contracts for surface drains was delayed by
several months on this account. However, on the positive side, preparation and implementation of the RAP
exposed WAPDA to good practices on land acquisition and resettlement. Some surface drain contracts
were delayed due to poor contractor performance and litigation between the contractor and WAPDA.
Some of these contracts had to be rescinded and fresh bids invited. Irrigation supply to the project area was
temporarily curtailed due to breakdown of a major structure on the Balloki-Sulemanki Link Canal that
supplies water to the project area. While this caused hardships, it also forced fanners to adopt better water
management practices. Lack of micro-credit facilities resulted in delays in collecting farmers' contributions
to the capital cost.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were long delays in the approval of the PC-I (an internal Government document that provides basis
for project approval), that was revised to reflect the changes in project scope agreed during the mid-term
review. Although these delays did not result in hold-up of funds, they did cause uncertainties for the
implementing agencies. Delays also took place in submitting requests to the Bank for reallocation of funds
amongst categories. Continuing delays in taking politically sensitive decisions (rationalizing staffing levels
in PIDA) made it difficult for GOPunjab to fully meet the covenant on O&M cost recovery. This issue is
now being addressed under the NDP Project, which is supporting large scale decentralization of irrigation
system management by devolving O&M responsibility to FOs.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Considerable procurement delays took place in the recruitment of consultants both by WAPDA and PID.
Award of surface drain contracts was also delayed by several months, primarily because of slow processing
at WAPDA headquarters. An unnecessary controversy about the nature of performance security (bank
guarantee Vs performance bond) firther added to the delays. The original surveys and design of surface
-9-



drains failed to accurately identify the number of structures (bridges, etc.) required, partly due to
inadequate consultations with the local population. Consequently, several variation orders had to be issued.
WAPDA's contract management performance was poor during the initial stages of project implementation.
Several non-performing contracts were allowed to linger for several years. Ultimately, these contracts had
to be rescinded and the remaining works awarded under a new contract. WAPDA also failed to persuade
the consultants to move their head office from Lahore to the Project area despite repeated suggestions from
Bank supervision missions to this effect. Quality of construction supervision visibly improved when the
consultants' team leader finally shifted to the project area, during the last year of implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project cost at completion is USS 57.86 million, as compared to US$ 70.65 million estimated at
appraisal. The lower cost in US$ terms reflects devaluation of the Pak Rupee and change in project scope.
Final disbursement from the Credit is pending due to actions required to be taken by the Borrower. An
amount of approximately USS 8.0 million is expected to remain unutilized and would be canceled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The project benefits are likely to be sustained. This assessment is based on the following
considerations:
*      Sector Policy Environment. The overall policy environment in the sector is supportive of
sustainability. Firstly, institutional reforms in the irrigation/drainage sector are starting to take root in
Punjab. The reform strategy has survived several government changes and the present government has also
expressed its commitment to the reforms. The project has made significant contributions to these reforms,
and the project area is likely to remain in focus and benefit from further positive developments. Secondly,
institutional reform consultants are being recruited under the National Drainage Program to help address
structural and change management issues. Thirdly, PIDA has privatized over 95% of public tubewells,
that used to account for over 50% of the total O&M budget for the sector. The resources released from
tubewells, are being redirected to improve the O&M of irrigation and drainage facilities. Finally, the
government is emphasizing equity of water distribution, including through various administrative measures.
Army monitoring teams are helping to curb tampering of outlets.
*      Devolution of O&M Responsibility. A significant part of the infrastructure established under the
project (3 out of 5 distributary canals, all watercourses, and the interceptor drains) are being operated and
maintained by FOs. There is evidence that FOs are carrying out O&M diligently and cost-effectively.
*      Capacity Building. PIDA recognizes the need for continued support to the fledgling FOs and is
seeking IWMI's assistance for further building their capacity.
*      Appropriation of Resources. Adequate funds have been allocated for O&M of drains during
FY2000/200 1.
*      Continuing Dialogue with FOs. PIDA is continuing its dialogue with FOs to evolve ways of
involving them in O&M of surface drains (besides canals), as well as in revenue generation through tree
plantation.
*      O&M Perfromance Contracts. PIDA is considering using resources from the ongoing NDP
project for awarding "O&M performance contracts" for the surface drains. This should insure adequate
O&M funding for the next four years.
*      Cost Recovery. PIDA is considering introducing an area-specific multi-sector drainage cess for
areas benefiting from drainage.
6.1.2  Notwithstanding the above positive factors, sustainability of the project achievements may be
- 10-



threatened if GOPunjab waivers in its commitment to the ongoing institutional reforms. Attitudinal and
behavioral changes in PIDA that are required to fully embrace the new participatory irrigation management
culture would take time. Inertia of the past PID culture, although currently dormant, still exists and could
surface again if the champions of the reforms somehow lose high level government support. Therefore, a
critical factor for success would be the establishment and fostering of a minimum "critical mass" of FOs,
who would become the main champions of the reforms. This is being done under the NDP Project, which is
supporting establishment and capacity building of over one hundred FOs.
6.2 Transition2 arranlgemenlt to r egular operations:
6.2.1 A post-completion O&M Plan has been prepared and the following arrangements have been made
for the transition from construction to the O&M phase:
Institutional Arrangements.
*     Canals improved under the project already have existing organizational setups for O&M within
PIDA and the FOs. Manuals for O&M have been prepared. The canal lining contractor has trained PIDA
and FOs staff in maintenance and repair procedures.
*     The interceptor drains and improved watercourses are already being operated and maintained
by FOs. O&M manuals for interceptor drains are available in vernacular and are being actively used. No
Government liability is involved in the O&M.
*     Surface drains will be maintained by WAPDA until June 2001, when they will be handed over to
PIDA. WAPDA will employ contractors to carry out maintenance. During this period WAPDA will
develop "yard-sticks" for O&M, based on practical experience. These yard-sticks would provide a basis to
PIDA for awarding O&M performance contracts.
6.2.2 Performance Indicators and Monitoring Arrangements. The post-completion O&M Plan has
identified a set of performance indicators that would be monitored during the operations phase, including
agricultural productivity, incomes, employment, drainage requirements, and FOs' perfornance. Monitoring
activities are being funded under the NDP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's perfonnance during project identification, preparation and appraisal was generally
satisfactory. The project was identified by WAPDA and GOPunjab. To promote Borrower ownership, the
Bank encouraged WAPDA/GOPunjab to take the lead role in project preparation. The project preparation
report envisaged a conventional subsurface drainage project. At appraisal the Bank suggested fundamental
changes, which the Borrower endorsed. However, the appraisal did not foresee the risk of delays in
completion of complementary works that were be constructed by GOPunjab through own resources. In
hindsight, the Bank should have carried out a more thorough review of the situation and assessed the fiscal
head room for the complementary works. Furthermore, the Bank could have required WAPDA and
GOPunjab to agree on a policy framework for land acquisition and resettlement, even for the
complementary works, that were to be financed outside the project from GOPunjab's own resources. This
could have avoided the delays that took place when these works were subsequently included in the project
scope and contract awards had to be held back until a satisfactory RAP had been prepared. Finally, the
covenant on O&M cost recovery was overly ambitious (see para 3.5).
7.2 Supenrision:
7.2.1 The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. Supervision missions were regular
and spent considerable time in the field interacting with various stakeholders. The task team had the
- 11 -



required skill mix. Besides core technical skills it included social development, financial management,
environment and cultural heritage specialists. Supervision missions monitored and facilitated compliance
with covenants, and were pro-active in identifying and addressing project design and implementation issues.
Safeguard issues were addressed in a timely and diligent manner. Supervision missions regularly reviewed
documentation in support of withdrawals made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the operation of
special accounts and internal controls. The task team followed up until the issues identified were settled
and required improvements put in place. Relationship and team work with the Borrower and implementing
agencies staff were cordial and effective.
7.2.2  Assignment of task management responsibility to the Bank field office further enhanced
effectiveness of Bank's monitoring and follow-up on agreed action plans. Regular review meetings and
short field visits were undertaken in-between missions. These proved highly effective. Procurement delays
and contract management issues, which had plagued the project during the early stages of implementation,
were effectively addressed with the support of Bank Management and the Procurement Unit in the field
office. Several non-performing surface drain contracts were rescinded or foreclosed. Overall contract
management performance improved significantly. Counter-part funding shortfall issues were effectively
addressed by raising them in the context of Country Portfolio Performnance Reviews. During the mid-term
review, which was carried out in a fully participatory manner, some project components were modified
based on the results of research and field trials. Recognizing the critical importance of institutional reforms
that were then on the anvil, supervision missions placed increased emphasis on pre-testing the reforms
through two pilots for forming FOs. These pilots sought solutions to generic sector wide issues (O&M
funding, capital and O&M cost sharing, devolution of O&M and revenue collection responsibility to FOs).
The pilots were successfully completed, and have yielded viable models for decentralization and devolution
of O&M and revenue collection responsibility to FOs. The success of these pilots have strengthened
Government commitment to the reforms. Diligent and forward looking supervision led to successful project
completion and achievement of objectives. At several stages during implementation it appeared that the
project might get bogged down due to procurement delays and resistance of conservative implementing
agency staff to introducing the concepts of participatory irrigation management. The Bank team overcame
these impediments through team work with the Borrower and implementing agency staff and by
intermediating knowledge and experiences from elsewhere.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank's overall performance was satisfactory, thanks to the good performance during supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government of Pakistan (GOP) had little, if any, involvement in project preparation. WAPDA played the
lead role and its performance was generally satisfactory. WAPDA assigned project preparation to a joint
venture of foreign and national consulting firms. However, participation of GOPunjab/PAD/PID, who
were to be the ultimate "owners" of the project was not ensured in the review and supervision of the
consultants' work. This made the subsequent project processing more demanding. Several inter-agency
issues, including assignment of implementation responsibilities arose, but were resolved satisfactorily.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOP did not have a direct role in project implementation other than allocation and release of federal
resources and periodic monitoring of progress by the Projects Wing of the Federal Planning Commission.
Barring a few exceptions, GOP ensured timely release of funds to WAPDA. However, there were long
delays in the approval of the revised project PC-1. The Ministry of Water and Power facilitated approval
of the resettlement action plan (RAP). GOPunjab was responsible for overseeing overall project
- 12-



implementation, addressing policy issues, and allocating and releasing provincial resources for the project.
GOPunjab performed this role satisfactorily. The Punjab Planning and Development Board played a key
role in identifying and resolving cultural heritage and land acquisition/compensation issues. However,
GOPunjab could have played a more pro-active role in causing PID to meet the project covenant on the
recovery of O&M costs by insisting on rationalization of staffing levels.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  While performance of the three principal implementing agencies [WAPDA, PID, Punjab
Agriculture Department (PAD)] varied during various stages of the project, it was satisfactory on balance.
During the initial stages of implementation, WAPDA's performance was lacking. Long delays in
procurement of supervisory consultants delayed Credit effectiveness by six months. Because of centralized
decision making, contract management was weak and important decisions were often delayed. There was a
marked improvement in overall project management during the last two years of implementation when a
new and motivated team (General Manager and Project Director) took over responsibility in 1998. Good
team work with the consultants and contractors and regular progress reviews, enabled completion of
surface drainage works within the extended Credit Closing Date. WAPDA fully owned and supported the
innovative changes made during the mid-term review. WAPDA's performance in implementing the RAP
was also satisfactory. Land compensation issues were satisfactorily resolved. The Project Director was
always responsive to, and well regarded by, the project affected persons (PAPs).
7.6.2  PID/PIDA's performance on the institutional reforms was satisfactory. The first ever irrigation
management transfer agreement in Pakistan was signed with three FOs. However, PID's performance
during the implementation of canal lining was lacking. A long delay in the approval of designs for outlets
led to completion delays and increase in cost. PID also failed to fully benefit from the outputs of canal
lining research. Costs could have been substantially reduced had PID adopted more cost effective designs
or reduced the scope of lining after it had been established that seepage losses from distributary canals were
much lower than earlier estimated. Bank missions raised these concerns, but PID's contractual obligations
precluded major changes in design or scope. PID also failed to fully meet the project covenant on O&M
cost recovery. While it made good progress on privatizing Government tubewells, the full benefits of this
in terms of O&M cost reduction could not be achieved because of delays in implementing severance
packages for redundant staff.
7.6.3  The Provincial Agriculture Department's (PAD's) performance was satisfactory. Watercourse
improvements were completed on or ahead of schedule. PAD was also quick to leam and successfully
replicate the model IWMI had developed for establishing FOs. The Department of Archaeology also
performed satisfactorily. It carried out excavations at several locations within the evaporation ponds and
retrieved antiquities (mainly potsherds), for safe keeping at the Harrapa Museum.
7.6.4  Performance of the research institutions participating in the project was satisfactory. They all
cooperated with, and benefited from, the effective contribution of IWMI in various research projects.
7.6.5 The implementing agencies complied with financial covenants. The Project Director, WAPDA,
enforced "financial discipline" amongst various WAPDA agencies, who received project funds, by insisting
on timely submission of "adjustment accounts" before releasing further resources. Project accounts were
generally well maintained and kept up to date, thanks to the existence of qualified budget and accounts
staff. Budget and accounts staff for the PID were seconded from the Auditor General's Office. Financial
progress was an integral part of monthly progress reports. Internal controls were adequate. "Pre-audits"
were carried out for all major expenditures. Barring a few exceptions, annual audit reports were
unqualified and generally received on time or with minor delays. Auditors' observations were addressed by
- 13-



Departmental Accounts Committees. No major financial management issues were encountered.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
GOP's overall performance was generally satisfactory, although its role in the project was limited.
8. Lessons Learned
Participatory Irrigation Management (Institutional Development) and Cost Recovery
(1) Farmers willingly contribute to capital and O&M costs when they are made partners in all
phases of the project cycle.
(2) Turn-over of management of irrigation systems to formal FOs leads to improved equity of
water distribution, cost-effective O&M, and improved O&M cost recovery.
(3) Public utilities engaged in a phased tumover of irrigation systems to FOs must ensure equity
of water distribution amongst the distributary canals tumed over to FOs and those still managed by the
Public Utility.
Project Design
(1) Project interventions that require up-front capital cost contributions by farmers should have effective
linkages with micro-credit facilities.
(2) There is a need for devising innovative approaches to capital cost sharing that take into account the
social and other disparities between different farrn sizes and income groups.
(3) A well designed research program relevant to the project interventions pays dividends.
(4) Field trials and investigations should be completed before project appraisal.
(5) Effective monitoring arrangements should be in place within implementing agencies to ensure
that procurement processes are completed within a reasonable time frame. "Service standards" should be
fixed for each level of review.
(6) A sound financial management, accounting and reporting system managed by qualified staff is a key
element for good govemance of project implementation.
(7) Consideration should be given to designing projects with shorter implementation periods (e.g. no more
than 4 or 5 years). Projects involving extensive field investigations, research and development work or
involuntary land acquisition should be carried out in two separate phases as separate operations.
Irrigation/Drainage Technology
(1) Investments in high cost sub-surface drainage interventions should be preceded by interventions in
water conservation, surface drainage, and improved water management, accompanied by a monitoring
program to identify the residual subsurface drainage requirements.
(2) Investments in canal lining should be preceded by field investigations, including measurement
of seepage losses, selection of lining technology appropriate for the site specific conditions, and
determination of value of water and the economic return to the investment.
(3) For waterlogged saline groundwater areas along canals, a system of inter-connected subsurface
interceptor and tile drains should be considered instead of a conventional tile drainage design.
(4) Cost effective designs for subsurface drains based on simple "farmer-friendly" technology
help promote farmer participation and contribution to capital and O&M costs.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
(1) To ensure client ownership, RAPs should be developed through a consultative planning
process involving all agencies expected to be involved in implementation.
(2) Without compromising safeguard policy objectives, more emphasis should be given to
ensure that RAPs, and in particular economic rehabilitation arrangements, are simple and implementable.
- 14 -



(3) To ensure timely compensation at replacement costs, the procedures for calculating compensation
payments for assets lost and approval and payment of compensation, should be clear, simple, and
transparent.
(4) Implementing agencies should make sure that adequately trained staff for RAP implementation are in
place at project effectiveness. Measures to achieve this should count as significant indicators of client
commitment to, and ownership of, the project design.
(5) Institutional arrangements for grievance redress should be based on clearly defined mandates
and powers recognized as legally valid by the client.
(6) To ensure proper implementation, monitoring and analysis of project outcomes, an electronic
PAP database should be established and maintained by trained staff from the initiation of project
implementation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments Of Director General Water Management, Puniab
NO.                  /DGA/OFWM/
DIRECTORATE GENERAL AGRICULTURE
(WATER MANAGEMENT), PUNJAB, LAHORE
Dated Lahore, the 28 November 2000
To
Mr. Usman Qamar,
Senior Irrigation Specialist &
Task Team Leader,
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South),
Irrigation & Drainage Project,
20-A, Ramna 5/1, Islamabad.
Subject:      FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH) FESS [Cr. 2410-PAKI
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (I.C.R)
Kindly refer to your letter dated 31-10-2000 vide which subject cited report has been
conveyed.
The document has been scrutinized in detail at this end and it has been found that a great
effort has been made to compile the draft ICR. Each and every component of the project has been duly
analyzed and evaluated in detail and potential benefits of the project have also been highlighted properly.
This Directorate agrees with the conclusion that the outcomes of the project are generally more than those
envisaged at the project appraisal. Findings of the report are, therefore, fully endorsed.
DIRECTOR
- 15 -



Comments Of WAPDA
Dated: November 13, 2000
To:    Usman Qamar
Sr. Irrigation Specialist &
Task Team Leader, FESS
20-A, Ramna 5/1
ISLAMABAD
Subject: FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH) FESS (CR. 2410-PAK)
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
Reference your office letter dated 31/10/2000. Comments on the contents of the ICR are as under:
I .    Under Para 4.1.3, it has been mentioned that extent of waterlogged area has reduced from 80% to 24% of
the project are and that the area requiring sub-surface facility will be about 50,000 - 75,000 acres. The reduction in
water-logging area is due to, inter-alia, persistent dry spell for the last 3 years. The water-logging may again come
up. It is, therefore, suggested that the extent of area for sub-surface drainage may be kept under constant
observation. We agree to other points/descriptions of the ICR.
The final version of the Borrowers Evaluation Report has already been submitted by the Project Director,
FESS, Bahwalnagar to your office.
With regards,
(--Signed--)
(ENGR. MUHAMMAD AYUB) Director 11
For Chief Engineer (NDP/C)
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no external co-financiers
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments of International Water Mananement Institute (IWMI)
IWMI RESEARCH SUPPORT FOR FESS
Since July 1994 IWMI was involved in "Research Support for Fordwah Eastem Sadiqia South (FESS)
Irrigation and Drainage Project." The overall objective of the FESS irrigation and drainage research
component was to refine the critical elements in the planning and implementation of the project, with the
emphasis on integrating improvement of water use efficiency with improved land and water management.
IWMI was engaged in conducting research, research coordination, as well as technical assistance.
The FESS research component consisted of five subcomponents and was highly action-oriented. The
results were used to improve the design of the ongoing project and provided a basis for developing the most
optimal cost-effective combination of measures to be implemented in subsequent projects.
1.  IMPROVED TECHNOLOGY FOR MONITORING AND PLANNING
The Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (WMED) implemented the research sub-component
on Improved Technology for Monitoring and Planning with the technical assistance and collaboration from
IWMI. The aim of the technical assistance to WMED was to enhance the capabilities for monitoring and
evaluation of irrigation and drainage projects with the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and
Remote Sensing (RS) tools. As a result, WMED developed very useful experience on analyzing physical
features and their spatial distribution in irrigation systems, as well as experience on classification systems and
procedures for crop recognition from satellite images. In the later stages of the project, WMED asked and
received assistance from IWMI for the impact evaluation work undertaken by them.
2.     PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF CANAL LINING
A major dilemma was encountered with explaining the differences in seepage losses resulting from
the ponding tests and the inflow-outflow tests. After rigorous analysis, as well as consultations with others
knowledgeable on this subject, both IWASRI (Bodla et al. 1998) and IWMI (Skogerboe et al.1999) reported
- 16-



their results. The professional research-based discussions between both institutes culminated in the
high-quality work of this component.
3.     IMPACT OF WATERLOGGING AND SALINITY ON CROP PRODUCTION
There was a good working relationship between the Mona Reclamation Experimental Project (MREP)
of WAPDA and IWMI-Pakistan. With Dutch funding, IWMI undertook research on Improved Surface
Irrigation Methods and Practices in Chishtian Sub-division beginning with the Kharif 1994 season. This
technology was transferred to MREP for employment in FESS during Kharif 1996.
During 1998, a joint effort was undertaken by MREP and IWMI to analyze the MREP research results
regarding the depth to watertable and root zone salinity for the four major crops of cotton, wheat, sugarcane
and rice. This effort culminated in a joint report, which is highly relevant to understand the reduction in
yields due to waterlogging and salinity in the irrigated agriculture of the IBIS.
4.     INTEGRATED IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE MANAGEMENT
Beginning in mid-1995 through 1998, IWMI used Dutch funds for establishing Farmers
Organizations (FOs) on Hakra 4-R Distributary. During the same time period, OFWM first established FOs on
Bahadarwah Minor, and subsequently spread their efforts on the entire Sirajwah Distributary, as well as the
much smaller Bhukan Distributray. There was considerable interchange between OFWM and IWMI during
the FO formations.
The action research program conducted at Hakra 4-R distributary, found that organizing water users
at the secondary level of Pakistan's contiguous canal irrigation system was socially feasible. This was contrary
to the popular belief that existed both within and outside Pakistan. Replicability of the social organization
program lies in the methodology adopted: the development of small field teams and the use of local volunteers.
The step-wise social organization process is meant to enhance sustainable interest of all the actors involved.
Both IWMI and OFWM provided organizational, as well as distributary and watercourse level
operations and management training to the FOs. Subsequently, the FOs prepared and negotiated service
agreements for Irrigation Management Transfer (IMT) with PIDA.
It took considerable time, before the FOs and PIDAs were able to sign IMT Agreements (IMTAs), due
to the fact that there was not yet an appropriate legal framework in place. The FOs used this time to test their
capacity in undertaking maintenance activities. Finally, in the Spring of 2000, the IMTAs were signed and the
actual pilot testing of farmers' participation could commence.
The results so far are highly satisfactory. The FOs are moving towards a much more equitable and
reliable water supply in their distributaries and the crop assessments in the first cropping season show
considerable increases. It seems that the FOs in the FESS area will become prime examples for participatory
irrigation management in the IBIS. Encouraging in this aspect is the gradually increasing enthusiasm and
commitment from PIDA officials, as well as other Government officials.
During Kharif 1998, MREP, OFWM, Agricultural Extension and IWMI established a Joint Research
Dissemination Program on bed-and furrow irrigation for cotton production in Hakra 4-R Distributary (Dutch
funds) and Bahadarwah Minor (FESS funds). In this context, a joint OFWM-IWMI report was also published.
5.     SUPPORT FOR FUTURE INTERVENTIONS
With the provision of Dutch and French funds in the same area, as the FESS contract with WAPDA,
IWMI was in a good position to utilize considerable field data for preparing a series of reports that was aimed
at supporting any additional interventions in the project area. Currently, it seems most likely that future
irrigation and drainage interventions in the area will be funded under NDP. In the final report of the research
series a combination of cost-effectiveness analysis and crop production functions was used to assess the relative
merits of different hardware and software solutions for follow-up projects in the area.
6.     OVERALL ASSESSMENT
This ICR makes a comprehensive assessment of the FESS project. It shows the project has had a
substantial impact on the project area in terms of reducing waterlogging and improving farn productivity.
However, some caution should be exercised, as reduced rainfall in recent years has contributed substantially to
the dropping groundwater table in the area. Furthermore, some of the project interventions will increase their
effectiveness, only when further interventions in the project area are implemented. Thus, monitoring of the
project impact should be extended over a longer period.
IWMI views the FESS project as a prime example of how research efforts can and should contribute to
successful irrigation and drainage interventions. In the situation of the planned interceptor drains, preliminary
research results played a major role in questioning their effectiveness in local circumstances. In case of the
- 17-



lining of distributaries, the research results failed to question the effectiveness of the lining in time. These
examples highlight the importance of integrating research in development projects.
IWMI's prime mandate is research in Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM). The institute
is keen to work together with its national partner research institutes to strengthen their research capacity and
help them create an impact with their research. In the FESS project, the joint research was conducted along
these lines. A large number of quality research products was the result. All institutes should continue to
strenghten the way they conduct research and the way they assure that research leads to improved development
interventions. Hopefully, all parties involved continue to put steps into this direction and stimulate the
important interactions between research and development.
10. Additional Information
"No Objection Certificate" Issued by GOP's Archaeology Department for the evaporation vonds
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
DEPARTMENT OF ARCHAEOLOGY
AND MUSEUMS
27-A-CENTRAL COMMERCIAL AREA
SHAHEED-E-MILLAT ROAD
KARACHI -8
The 25th August, 2000
The Project Director (Drainage)
FESS Project, wapda Scarp
Bahawalnagar.
Subject: ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES WITHIN THE EVAPORATION
PONDS OF FESS PROJECT - NO OBJECTION
CERTIFICATE FOR THE -
Dear Sir,
I am directed to state that the work of the archaeological excavation on the sites in and around the
evaporation ponds area of FESS project, Cholistan, has been completed by the Department of Archaeology and
Museums, Govemment of Pakistan. The camping sites of the Hakra culture dating back to the 2nd half of the 4th
Millennium B.C. have been recorded and antiquities after study have been preserved. The work of excavation was
completed on the following sites: (1) Kalasranwala -1. (2) Kalasranwala -II, (3) Gruddiwala Jal, (4) Dillanwala,
and (5) Uthwala.
The requisite NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATE in this regard is hereby granted for taking further
necessary action. However, any evidence of Archaeological remains if found during the work at any stage may
please be brought in to the notice of this Department.
Yours sincerely,
-- signed --
SALEEM-UL HAQ
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator          Pre-project            Projected in SAR                 ActualJLatest Estimate
InstitutionalVSector
Policy Impact
Decentralization of   No mechanism in   165 water user associations       *  415 WUAs established;
Irrigation System     place              (WUAs) were to be formed at the   *  3 Farmer organizations established
Management                               tertiary (watercourse) level.    at distributary canal level; and
* 3 drainage beneficiary groups
(DBGs) established in highly
waterlogged pockets
Devolution of O&M     O&M and revenue  *   A pilot for participatory      *  3 FOs at distributary canal level
and revenue (water    collection was     irrigation management involving   devolvedfull responsibility for O&M
charges) collection   responsibility of    joint management with public   and revenue collection. Formal
responsibility to     public sector      sector was envisaged.            Irrigation Management Transfer (IMT)
farmers                                                                   Agreements signed. Province-wide
policy for IMT adopted
*   O&M costs for subsurface    *  DBGs given full O&M
drainage were to be bome by     responsibility
public sector
Capital cost sharing by  No cost sharing  *    Farmers were to pay labor    *  Farmers paid all labor costs and
beneficiaries         arrangement was   costs and 25% of cost of          25% -30% of cost of watercourse
in place.          watercourse materials in 6      materials in installments or up-front;
bi-annual installments;
*    No capital cost sharing was   *  DBGs paid up-front 10-15% of
envisaged for subsurface drainage   capital cost of subsurface drainage;
investments
Institutional capacity    Limited capacity    Exposure to good practices in  Implementing agencies exposed to ICB
for project planning,    existed in      project preparation and          procurement and good practices in
implementation and    implementing       construction management          construction and contract management
construction          agencies
management
Awareness of          Limited            Exposure to environmental        Implementing agencies exposed to
safeguard aspects     experience         surveys and cultural heritage    good practices and Bank's safeguard
(environment, cultural                   aspects                          policies. Good practices are now being
heritage and                                                              mainstreamed in implementing
resettlement)                                                             agencies
Enhancement of        Limited exposure   Exposure to integrated packages    Participating research institutions
Research Institutions'   of research     of applied/practical research    exposed to an integrated and
capabilities          institutions in                                     organically linked package of research
implementing                                       items. State-of-the-art knowledge
coordinated and                                    intermediated through the involvement
organically linked                                 of IWMI. Over 20 quality research
research                                           publications issued. Feed back from
research used in modifying project
design during implementation.
- 19-



Capacity for         Capacity existed    Enhancement of monitoring and    Capacity of monitoring organizations
Monitoring and        for data collection   evaluation agencies' capacity in    enhanced through collaboration with
Evaluation           but capacity for   collecting and analyzing data   IWMI. Use of remote sensing and GIS
data analysis and                                 was introduced.
evaluation was
limited
Physical &
Environmental
Impact
Water Savings:       Limited water      Water savings of about 91,000   Water savings of approximately
savings were      acre feet were expected as a result  85,000 acre-feet
expected from     of water conservation measures
ongoing           that were to be implemented
watercourse       under the project
improvements
Reduction in Extent of  There was a     Lowering of water table by      As a consequence of the project
Highly Waterlogged    galloping trend of  approximately I foot each year    interventions (water conservation
Area                 waterlogging in                                    measures and drainage), waterlogged
the project area.                                 area decreased from 80% to 24% and
About 42% of the                                  further decrease was expected.
project area was
waterlogged
(water table less
than 1.5 meters
from ground
level). By 1997
the extent of
waterlogged area
had increased to
nearly 80%
Decrease in land area   The abandoned   No estimates were provided in the  The abandoned area decreased from
on which agriculture    area was expected   SAR                         9.6% of the CCA in 1994/95 to 5.6%
was abandoned due to  to increase                                      in 1999/2000. Some lands were being
waterlogging                                                            cultivated for the first time after
decades
Villages/Towns       Numerous           No estimates were provided in the  Numerous villages/localities relieved
relieved of stagnant    villages/ localities   SAR                      of waterlogging and protected from
water and surface    and small towns                                    surface flooding. The town of Dunga
flooding             (notably the town                                  Bunga reclaimed after being
of Dunga Bunga)                                   waterloggedfor decades
had pools of
stagnant water
year-round
Agricultural Impact
Cropping Intensity   Rabi   74.2        Rabi   91.2                     Rabi        89.2
Kharif  55.4      Kharif 68.1                     Kharif      90.3
Total   129.6     Total   159.3                   Total        179.5
- 20 -



Increase in Crop                       No differentiation was made by  Relative to yields in areas with 0-90
Yields                                 water table depth: Increase in  cm water table depths:
yields as compared to without
project was assumed as follows:    90-150cm   >150 cm
NA         Wheat           4%                    13%        24%
Cotton         15%                  25%         26%
Sugarcane     13%                   29%         73%
Rabi Fodder    nominal               11%         12%
Kharif Fodder  nominal              20%         25%
Rice (coarse)   nominal             (15%)       (32%)
Agricultural
Production
(000 tons)
Wheat                            79.8                           117.2                              135.1
Cotton                            31.7                           53.6                               44.8
Sugarcane                       311.2                           433.4                              248.6
Rabi Fodder                      277.5                          346.6                              731.2
Kharif Fodder                   227.9                           279.6                              499.2
Rice (paddy)                       7.6                            9.3                                5.3
Poverty & Financial
Impact
Farm income (000
Rs.)                             10.52                          19.68                               20.7
Small                           20.52                           57.61                               64.9
Large                            16.80                          31.45                               34.6
Total Area
Additional Farm
Employment                                                   I million                          1 million
(workdays per annum)
Employment During           NA         Not estimated in SAR            Surface drain contracts  3,500
construction                                                           persons
Canal lining = 7,000 persons during
peak period and 1,000 persons on
average
Reduction in           NA                   Not estimated          Rs 3.5 million per annum
Government O&M
Liability
Social Impact
Equity of Water      Inequities in water  Not quantified in SAR        Data collected by IWMI indicates
Distribution         distribution both                                 delivery performance ratio (ratio of
at canal and                                     actual discharge to designed or
watercourse level                                authorized discharge), which was
considerably more than I before
Irrigation Management Transfer to
FOs, is now close to I
Economic Impact
ERR                 NA                      22%                              17.7%
- 21 -



Output Indicators
Indicator               Pre-project           Projected in SAR       Actual/Latest Estimate
Canals lining completed    No canal lining existed  180 Km                164 Km lining, & 65 Km of
embankment
raising/strengthening
Number of Watercourses   134 watercourses         Additional 340          Additional 412 watercourses
improved                improved                  watercourses to be      improved
improved
Surface drains completed   No surface drainage    159 Km                  277 Km of drains
Interceptor drains       None                     280 Km to be built in   3 pilot farmer-managed
public sector          systems covering 1450 acres
Irrigation and Drainage  The specific items of    Research on: (i)        SAR targets completed
Research carried out    research included under    Drainage Trials = 3
the project were not     sites; (ii) Interceptor
included under other     Trials = 3 sites; (iii)
ongoing programs         Experimental Canal
Lining = 46 trials; (iv)
Impact of Waterlogging
and Soil Salinity on crop
yields = 6 crop seasons
Number of FOs            No FOs existed           340 WUAs                412 WUAs and 3 Canal
established                                                               level FOs
Number of Irrigation     Not envisaged            Joint management of I    Irrigation Management
Management Transfers                              distributary canal was    Transfer completed for 3
completed                                         envisaged               distributary canals
Number of Drainage       Not envisaged            Not envisaged           3 DBGs assigned O&M &
Beneficiary Groups                                                        revenue collection
established                                                               responsibility
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million  I
Interceptor Drains                                  26.70            1.68           6.3
Canal Lining                                        22.89           31.94         139.5
On Farm Water Management                             0.85           0.62          72.4
Surface Drains                                       8.71           17.42          200
Monitoring & Phase-2 Preparation Field Trials        3.78            2.95           78
Irrigation and Drainage Research                     5.29            2.57         48.7
Monitoring and Evaluation                            0.36            0.19          52.2
Technical Assistance and Training                    0.88            0.49          55.4
Future Project Preparation                           1.20            0.00            0
Note: Costs include contingencies
Total Baseline Cost                                 70.66           57.86
Total Project Costs             70.66          57.86
Total Financing Required             70.66          57.86
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I          ~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Othoer        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    53.10          1.84         0.50         0.00        55.44
(39.84)      (1.37)        (0.37)       (0.00)      (41.58)
2. Goods                     0.67          0.62         0.00         0.00         1.29
(0.33)       (0.37)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                  6.12          0.00         0.00         0.00         6.12
(4.90)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (4.90)
4. Incremental staff         0.00          0.00         7.80         0.00         7.80
salaries, and operating
expenditure.
(0.00)       (0.00)       (7.02)       (0.00)       (7.02)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     59.89         2.46         8.30         0.00         70.65
(45.07)       (1.74)      (7.39)        (0.00)      (54.20)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- 23 -



ProcurementMeod
Expenditure Category         Ica               C                           N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         37.53           5.52           0.62           0.00          43.67
(30.27)         (4.42)         (0.37)         (0.00)        (35.06)
2. Goods                          1.53           0.00           0.00            0.00          1.53
(0.95)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.95)
3. Services                       7.14           0.00           0.00            0.00          7.14
(5.53)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (5.53)
4. Incremental staff              0.00           0.00           5.52            0.00          5.52
salaries, and operating
expenditure.
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.98)          (0.00)        (4.98)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         46.20           5.52           6.14            0.00          57.86
(36.75)         (4.42)         (5.35)         (0.00)        (46.52)
Figures of Bank financing are provisional because the final disbursed amount is pending due to actions required to
be taken by the borrower.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
D Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local. government units.
Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Category               App*   9* e                         __      _    TF 0 A                  Ti
IDA       G,6VL0077 SC41K      i6 ;   DA tOOGt0L7 l;   o      IDAI
Civil Works               41.58     13.86                35.06       8.61               84.3   62.1
Consulting Services       4.90       1.22                 5.53       1.61               112.9  132.0
Administration and        7.02       0.78                 4.98       0.54               70.9   69.2
Operating Costs
Goods                     0.70       0.59                 0.95       0.58               135.7   98.3
Figures of Bank financing are provisional because the final disbursed amount is pending due to actions required to
be taken by the borrower.
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Quantifiable Benefits
1.    Incremental crop production benefits attributable to the project arise from: (a) lowering of the
groundwater table as a result of project supported water conservation and drainage investments; (b)
reduction in crop damages due to reduced surface flooding after rainfall events; (c) reduction in the extent
of land abandoned due to waterlogging; (d) additional water availability resulting from watercourse
improvement and canal lining; and (e) costs saved from avoiding canal breaching as a result of canal lining
and strengthening of earthen embankments of unlined canals.
2.     Benefits of Lowering of Groundwater Table. Research studies have clearly demonstrated that as
the groundwater table rises and reaches depth of less than one meter, crop yields decrease substantially.
Data collected as part of monitoring and evaluation studies carried out in the project area on crop yields in
areas with different water table depths is presented below:
Crop Yields at Different Water Table Depths (Kg/ha)
Depth Water              0 to 90 cm    90 to 150 cm              > 150 cm
table
Cotton                         240             299                 303
Rice                           888             753                  607
Sugarcane                    8,021           10,380               13,862
Kharif Fodder                7,100            8,520                8,875
Wheat                          683             772                  848
Rabi Fodder                  13,900          15,429                15,568
Source: WMED data for 1995-2000 collated by ICR Mission
It is clear from the above table that as the water table falls below depth of one meter, crop yields, other
than those of rice, increase substantially, particularly for cotton and wheat. Similarly, cropping intensities
also increase substantially with the lowering of water table. Since the project area lies in the
"cotton-wheat" agro-climatic zone, the benefits of water table lowering are substantial.
3.     Actual Water Table Depths. The table below shows the variation in the groundwater table during
1994-2000.
Actual Pre-monsoon Water Table Depths in the Project Area (% of CCA)
Depth    94    95       96     97      98     99                     2000
(cms)                                __
0 to 90    5     17     30      28     32    25                       11
90 to 150   37    44     44      51     47    45                        13
> 150     58    39      26     21      21     30                      76
Source: SCARP Monitoring Organization
3.1   It is clear from the above table that the rising trend of groundwater table in the project area
- 25 -



continued unabated until 1997. The extent of highly waterlogged area (water table 0-90 cms) increased
from 5% of the total CCA in 1994 to 30% in 1996. During the same period, the area with water table
depth greater than 1.5 meters decreased from 58% to 21% of the CCA. From 1998 onwards, as the
implementation of project components advanced, the water table started to decline as a result of: (i) reduced
groundwater recharge from improved watercourses and lined canals; and (ii) groundwater intercepted by
surface drains in areas with shallow water table. Lower than average rainfall during 1998-2000 also
contributed to the rapid decline of the water table.
3.2    Projections of Water table. The project interventions were completed in March 2000, and only
limited post-completion data on the future trend of the ground water table trend was available at the time
this analysis was carried. The following conservative assumptions were, therefore, made for purposes of
economic analysis: (i) without the project, the water table would have continued to stay at the levels
actually observed in 1998 (to be conservative, no further increase in waterlogging has been assumed,
although the water table was showing a rising trend up to 1998); and (ii) with the project, the water table
would stabilize approximately at the levels actually observed in June 2000 (again, this assumption is
conservative as the water table may recede further over time).
4.     Benefits of (i) Reduced Surface Flooding, and (ii) Reclamation of Abandoned Land. Based on
36 years of available rainfall data in the project area, the probability of surface flooding is about 25%
(once in 4 years). It is estimated that surface drains would reduce the area affected by storm flooding from
2% of the CCA without-project, to 0.25% of the CCA with-project. Similarly, the land abandoned from
cropping due to severe waterlogging is estimated to reduce from about 10% of the CCA without-project to
3% of CCA with-project.
5.     Benefits of Water Savings. Watercourse improvements and canal lining have yielded
approximately 85,000 acre-feet of additional water per year at the farm gate. This is equivalent to a 25%
increase in annual water availability compared to the without project situation. Analysis carried out by
IWMI on crop yields in the project area indicates that water supplies available before the project the project
met 30% to 60% of the full water requirements of various crops. The additional water available with
project could thus be used for meeting a higher proportion of full crop water requirements, resulting in
higher yields. However, it has been generally observed that farmers in the project area tend to use
additional water for planting more area. For purposes of economic and financial analysis a conservative
assumption was made that the estimated 25% increase in water availability at the farm gate would lead to a
10% increase in the annual cropping intensity. No change in cropping patterns was assumed. Possible
yield increases were also not taken in to account in the financial and economic analyses.
6.     Benefits of Reduced Canals Breaches. The crop losses averted due to reduction in canal breaches
as a result of lining and strengthening of earthen embankments have been quantified.
Agricultural Production Impact
7.     The estimated crop production with and without the project is presented below.
- 26 -



Estimated Crop Production (000 tons)
SAR                                    ICR
Crops          Without     With        Incremental   Without       With         Incremental
Project     Project     %              Project      Project      %
Cotton               39.0        53.6          37.4          30.8         44.8          45.5
Rice (coarse)         7.8         9.3           19.2         14.7          5.3        (63.9)
Sugarcane           320.7       433.4          35.1         251.4        248.6         (1. 1)
K. Fodder           235.1       279.6           18.9        392.7        499.2          27.1
Wheat                94.8       117.2          23.6         103.0        135.1          31.2
R. Fodder           286.2       346.6          21.1         527.3        731.2          38.7
The decline in the production of coarse rice and sugarcane reflects the lower cropping intensity of these crops in areas with
lower water table.
Farm Income Impact
8.     Farm incomes have been evaluated for farms in areas with different water table depths.
Water table depth                               Farm Income Per Acre (Rs)
0 to 90 cm                                       3,442
90 to 150 cm                                      4,729
greater than 150 cm                               5,752
Since even in the with project scenario, farms would be distributed under the above three categories of
water table, a weighted average of the farm incomes has been computed.
Farm Income a/ (000 Rupees)
SAR                                              ICR
Future    Future    Incremental       %    Future     Future    Incremental   %
Without  With                              Without   With
Farm      22.13     31.45             9.32   42      26.54      34.55          8.02   30
Income
The ICR figures reflect the weighted average incomes of farm located in various water table categories.
The ICR estimate of incremental farm income is lower than the SAR estimate because the ICR has used
higher estimates of farm income in the without project scenario as compared to the SAR, based on actual
monitoring data.
Employment Impact
9.    It is estimated that the project would create about one million additional work days per year at full
development, as compared to without project situation. This estimate is similar to the appraisal estimate.
- 27 -



10.    Distribution of Benefits. As predicted in the SAR, the project has benefited the poorer sector of
the farming community who are concentrated in the waterlogged and saline groundwater areas and the tail
ends of canals and watercourses where the project works were focused. The number of direct beneficiaries
is estimated at about 17,900 farm families or about 143,000 people, which is similar to the SAR estimates.
Farmers who lost land for the construction of drains, and who suffered a decline in incomes are being
compensated.
Non-quantifiable Benefits
11.    A number of benefits which could not be quantified due to a lack of suitable data at appraisal are
obvious at the completion of project implementation. Firstly, the following direct non-quantifiable benefits
are attributable to the project: (i) reduction in O&M costs for buildings and roads in low-lying areas that
were prone to flooding after rainfall events; (ii) environmental improvements reflected by reduced
waterlogging and surface flooding; (iii) improved equity of distribution of water; (iv) the improved state of
public roads on the canal banks, which has improved access and reduced transport costs; and (v) improved
O&M of canals where farmer organizations have been assigned this responsibility.
12.    Secondly, there are a number of other non-quantifiable benefits arising from the research and
institution-building activities of the project. These include: (i) the many answers that have been provided
on how to improve the irrigation efficiency under waterlogged and rising soil salinity conditions; and (ii) the
cost-efficiencies in drainage and canal lining works that will be possible in future projects due to the
research data assembled and the experience gained in the project - this is potentially a substantial benefit;
and (iii) the benefit envisaged in the SAR of the project being a model for the integration of irrigation and
agricultural activities which was partially realized but could have been greater had there been a more direct
involvement of field-level agricultural staff in the project.
Costs
13.   Investment costs. As in the SAR and MTR, the costs of the following three components were
excluded: (i) Irrigation and drainage research, (ii) Monitoring and field trials, and (iii) Future project
preparation. For the purpose of the economic analysis, costs in current Rupees were converted to May
2000 prices by applying the Pakistan Consumer Price Index to the local costs and the MWV Index to the
foreign costs. The project investment costs in constant financial prices were then converted into economic
prices by applying conversion factors of 0.75 and 1 to the local and foreign costs respectively.
14.    O&M costs. The O&M costs were taken from the Post-completion Operation and Maintenance
Plan. These costs were converted to economic prices by applying a conversion factor of 0.75.
15.    Land lost to drains. A total of 3,600 acres has been lost to agricultural production for the
construction of the surface drains. Most of this land would have been in production prior to the project,
although it is estimated that 25% of this area would not have been cropped before the project due to severe
waterlogging. The agricultural production that has been lost due to the construction of the drains is a
project cost which has been taken into account in the ICR, although it was ignored in both the SAR and
the MTR.
16.    Assumptions. The main assumptions made in the economic analysis are similar to the SAR and
MTR. The most outstanding differences in the assumptions are: (i) compared to the SAR and the MTR the
- 28 -



without-project cropping intensities are assessed to be much higher; (ii) the crop yield increases
with-project have been considerably higher than had been anticipated during appraisal and at the mid-term
review. The estimated ERRs are presented below:
Economic Rate of Return
Project Components               SAR                    MTR                      ICR
Overall Project                       22                     20                      17.7
Interceptor cum Subsurface           NA                      NA                      18.5
Drains
Surface Drains                       NA                      NA                      13.7
Watercourse Improvement              NA                      NA                      59.8
Canal Lining                         NA                      NA                      9.2
17.    Sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity tests were carried out on three major variables affecting the
economic outcome of the project:
(a)    Water table Depths. Since limited post-completion data is available so far, and the future
trend is not known with certainty, the impact of both an optimistic and a pessimistic scenario have
been estimated.
(b)    Reduced Benefits
With Project
Benefits decrease by 5%
Without Project
Benefits increase by 5%
(c)    Reduced cost of Canal lining: (While the cost of canal lining based on geo-membrane are
currently generally quite high, they are expected to decrease in future as more cost effective technologies
develop. Keeping this in view, the ERR has been re-estimated to examine the impact of cost reduction).
- 29 -



Sensitivity Analysis
Variables Tested                                                          ERR
Base Case --- Overall Project                                              18%
Base Case --- Canal Lining                                                9.4%
(a) Water table lowering Optimistic Scenario 1/                            19%
(b) Water table lowering Pessimistic Scenario 1/                           17%
(c) Benefits decreased by 5%                                               16%
(d) Reduced Cost of Canal Lining 2/
(i) Costs reduced by 5%
- ERR Canal Lining                                        9.9%
- ERR Overall                                            18.2%
(ii) Costs reduced by 10%
- ERR Canal Lining                                       10.7%
- ERR Overall                                            18.8%
1/      Optimistic Scenario: With Project: Waterlogged area would decrease to 20% of CCA; Without project:
Waterlogged area would increase to 85% of CCA
Pessimistic Scenario: With Project: Waterlogged area would increase to 30% of CCA; Without Project: Waterlogged
area would remain at 79% of CCA
2/      The results, however, show that minor changes in costs do not increase the ERR substantially, suggesting that
seepage rates and value of water are the key factors that determine viability of canal lining
18.    Prices. Farm gate prices for internationally traded goods are based on World Bank Commodity
price forecasts, while those of non traded goods are based on domestic financial prices. Among traded
goods, export parity prices have been used for cotton and rice, the average of import and export parity
prices for sugarcane (considering that Pakistan has been both surplus and deficit in sugar in recent years),
and import parity prices for wheat and fertilizers. A conversion factor of 0.75 has been used for market
labor wage rate. The other domestic prices (by products, seed, farm yard manure, and tractor labor) have
been translated to border prices by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.9.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Proiect Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation       Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/88                          4   Agr Eco., Drain Eng., 2 Irr Eng.
10/89                          4   Agr Eco., Drain Eng., 2 Irr Eng.
3/90                           9   2 Agr Eco., Eco., Drain Eng., 2
Irr Eng., 2 Cons., Fin Ani
12/90                          1   Agr Eco.
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/91                          7   Eco., 2 Drain Eng., Agr.,
Eco., Irr. Eng
10/91                          2    Irr. Eng
07/92                          6    frr. Eng., Leg., 2 Disb., Sec. Dir
Supervision
07/93                          2   Irr. Eng., Agr. Eco                    S                  S
07/94                           3  Irr. Eng., Agr. Eco., Disb.            S                  S
12/94                          1  Irr. Eng                                S                  S
07/95                           3   3 Irr. Eng                            S                  S
03/96                           1  Irr. Eng                               S                  S
11/96                          5   3 Irr. Eng., Anthro., Disb.            S                  S
08/97                           6   3 Irr. Eng. FMS., Agr. Eco.           S                  S
02/98                           4   2 Iff. Eng. Anthro., Disb.            S                  S
10/98                          5   2 Irr. Eng., Cons. Mgt. Spl.,          S                  S
Arch., Disb.
07/99                           8   2 Irr. Eng., Disb., Anthro, Cons.     S                  S
Mgt. Sp]., Hydro, Agr Eco, Arch
10/99                          4   Irr. Eng., Cons Mgt Spl., Disb.,       S                  S
Agr. Eco.
11/99                          1  Anthro.                                 S                  S
05/98                           1  Env.                                   S
ICR
05/00                          8   Irr. Eng., Disb., Cons. Mgt.           S                  S
Spl., Anthro., 2 Agr Eco,
Arch., Env
1rr Engg = Irrigation Engineer, Disb = Disbursement Analyst, Anthro = Anthropologist, Cons. Mgt. Spl =
Construction Management Specialist, Agr. Eco = Agricultural Economist, Env = Environmentalist, Arch =
Archaeologist, Sec. Dir = Sector Director, Leg. = Legal Advisor, Resett. Eng = Resettlement Engineer,
FMS = Financial Management Specialist, Hydro = Hydrologist, Drain Eng = Drainage Engineer, Eco =
Economist, Fin Anl = Financial Analyst, Agr = Agriculturist
- 31 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 58                          155
Appraisal/Negotiation                      78                          217
Supervision                               193                          514
ICR                                      NA*                          NA*
Total                                     329                          886
* Resources used for ICR are merged in supervision. Actuals as on 11/29/2000.
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         C H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physicat                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                   O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Equity of Water Distribution
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS*S  Ou OHU
* Supervision                                        OHS Os   Ou  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS   Q u   O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS   O u   Q HU
iM Overall                                           OHS OS   O u  O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Status of Resettlement Action Plan and Economic Rehabilitation of Non-Viable PAPs (see Annex 8
below)
2. ICR Mission aide-memoire (project files)
3. Estimates of water savings and project impact on groundwater table (project files)
4. Economic and Financial Analysis (Spreadsheet Model)
5. Archaeological Review of Evaporation Ponds
6. Report of the Archaeology Department on the Excavations
7. Irrigation Management Transfer Agreement Between PIDA and Farmer Organizations
8. Post-completion Operational Plan
9. Beneficiary Survey carried out by IWMI staff
10. Environmental Survey of Evaporation Ponds
11. Resettlement Action Plan
- 35 -



Annex 8. Status of Resettlement Action Plan Implementation
Overall status
1.    A Resettlement Action Plan for the Project was approved by IDA in January 1997. In April 1997,
WAPDA submitted to IDA a Working Paper for Revised Policy Guidelines. A modified version of these
Guidelines were cleared by IDA in May 1997 and subsequently incorporated in a revised RAP.
2.     A major accomplishment has been the completion of the bulk of the payments for land
compensation (94%) at rates that in many cases have been increased as a result of intervention by the
project over those originally awarded. The pending balance is mainly due to unresolved inheritance cases
or disputed land titles. While land compensation is largely completed, that for houses (88% completed),
fruit trees (45% completed) and crops (70% completed) has been lagging behind. It is expected that
compensation for houses, fruit trees, and crops as well as the remaining land compensation cases will be
completed by December 31, 2000. Implementation of economic rehabilitation measures for PAPs have
only recently started. This is partly due to the time consuming process of verification of land holding data
for identification of non-viable PAPs, and partly because of the difficulty of identifying income restoration
measures that would be both effective and implementable. Precision land levelling will be undertaken as a
general measure to improve the productivity on the remaining land-holdings of the estimated 2,225 PAPs
left with 6 acres or less. In addition, measures still need be identified to assist the estimated 1,274 PAPs
who have suffered a decline in income as a result of land acquisition.
3.     The delayed start of RAP implementation plus initial capacity and staffing problems affecting the
project's organizational set-up to implement the RAP (especially with regard to its Social Unit) together
with the focus on settling compensation payments and verifying land holding data have meant, that other
issues received less attention. Progress in areas such as participation and information dissemination to
PAPs has been lagging. The Village Resettlement Committees prescribed in the RAP were established, but
few assumed their intended functions, and dissemination of information on resettlement and rehabilitation
issues has been uneven.
4.     Actions beyond the project closing date comprise the following:
*     Completion of compensation payments for land, houses, fruit trees and crops by the Land
Acquisition Unit under the FSR Project by December 31, 2000.
*     Completion of economic rehabilitation measures (precision land leveling) by December 31, 2001
for PAPs left with non-viable land holdings after land acquisition.
*      Updating of PAP database with data on compensation payments and economic rehabilitation by
WAPDA staff under the FSR Project. This activity will continue until completion of the rehabilitation
activities.
*      Impact monitoring of economic rehabilitation measures by the Watercourse Monitoring &
Evaluation Department. This activity will continue until completion of the rehabilitation activities.
Compensation for land and other assets
5.     Land acquisition and compensation. All the 3,609 acres required for construction of drains are
now in possession and 94% of the compensation amount has been paid to the entitled PAPs. Outstanding
compensation payments are due to unresolved inheritance cases, pending issuing of title documents (Patta
- 36 -



Malkiat) and disputed land titles. Funds for payment of the remaining land compensation are either
deposited with the Government Treasury or available with the Land Acquisition Collector of the project.
The overall status is as follows:
Contract    Land      Land in     Comments
required   possession
(acres)   (acres)
FESS-201      804        804      *     90% of compensation payments for 789 acres
completed. Balance pending due to unresolved inheritance cases
or disputed land titles.
*     Additional requirement of 15 acres in SC-4. Land is in
possession, but not compensated. Approval of compensation
estimates is pending with the DC, Bahawalnagar since
September 1999.
FESS-202     1630       1630      *     95% of compensation payments completed for 1610
acres. Balance pending due to unresolved inheritance cases or
disputed land titles.
*     For 464 acres (of the 1610 acres), award accepted
under protest and contested in court.
*     For 7 acres in NC-9, Additional Drain, approval of
compensation estimates by Commissioner, Bahawalpur on May
4, 2000. Land in possession, but not compensated.
*     For 13 acres in AD-8, approval of compensation
estimates is pending with the DC, Bahawalnagar since
September 1999. Land in possession, but not compensated.
FESS-203     1228       1175      *      98% compensation payments completed for 341 acres
acquired under Section 17 of the LA Act.
*     95% of compensation payments completed since April
1999 for 834 acres acquired under negotiation.
*     The 53 acres of NC- 12 representing the difference
between 'land required' and 'land in possession' has been
deleted from FESS and included in the FSR project since the
contract is under litigation and work will not be completed
within the FESS project period..
6.    With regard to the balance of outstanding compensation payments, the project has agreed with the
Deputy Commissioner, Bahawalnagar, that in the case of pending title documents (Patta Malkiat), PAPs
will obtain these after clearing all outstanding land payment installments. Furthermore, PAPs have been
requested to resolve outstanding inheritance cases. Finally, approval of rates for 28 acres has been pending
with the DC, Bahawalnagar since September 1999.
7.    Average land compensation rates are shown in the table below. Compensation rates for land
acquired under Section 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act are assessed on a village by village basis. These
rates have in many cases been enhanced through intervention by the project. Examples are the village of
- 37 -



Chak Abdul Haq, at drain NC-9 under FESS-202 where the original award of Rs. 3,520 per acre was
revised to Rs. 40,000 per acre. In the village of Chak 105/6R (drain SC-5 under FESS-202) rates were
increased from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 100,000 per acre, and in the village of Chak 118 Murad (drain NC-7
under FESS 203) rates were increased from Rs. 8,500 to Rs. 149,000 per acre. The point of reference for
negotiated land compensation prices has been the Land Revenue Schedule maintained at the Deputy
Commissioner's office. This Schedule is based on transaction prices and crop yields over a five year
period. In addition, location (near roads or urban areas) influence land values. In the village context,
different factors make estimation of market prices to determine replacement costs difficult. There is no
open land market which enables identification of 'market prices', since co-villagers hold residual land rights
which discourage or prevent land sales to outsiders and tend to lower transaction prices. At the same time,
farmers will report a lower land price than the actual amount paid to reduce payment of taxes on land sales.
8.     Altogether, the land compensation rates paid appear reasonable. Analysis of information from the
PAP database shows that compensation awards have been equitable and have not favored larger
landholders. If anything, smaller landowners have on the average received higher rates per acre than larger
landowners. The average minimum rate per acre paid to landowners with 2.5 acres or less after land
acquisition is Rs. 30,981, while the average rate paid to landowners with 7 acres or more after land
acquisition is Rs. 20,851. The average maximum rates for the same categories are identical. This,
however, does not mean that all land losers are satisfied with the compensation received. There are 24
cases where groups of PAPs have accepted awards under Section 17(4) under protest and are contesting the
compensation rates in court. On the basis of the court rulings in two recent cases involving PAPs from the
FSR project, it would appear that PAPs stand a fair chance of obtaining increased compensation. During
the June 1999 supervision mission, WAPDA agreed that it would not appeal court rulings in favor of PAPs
to increase compensation rates subject to the condition that these rates should not go beyond existing
market rates.
Contrac    LAA Section 17(4)          Negotiation          Negotiation     Comments
t
Amount Rs per acre       Acres acquired       Acres acquired
FESS-         50,000-60,000               531                  273              Payments in
201                                                                                1991-92
FESS-        21,800-126,000              1630                   0
202
FESS-        20,000-149,000               394                  834
203
9.     House compensation. Compensation payments were 88% completed by end September, 2000.
The primary bottleneck hampering progress is delayed sanctioning of payments by the District Collector.
Contract   Total    Total  Payment        Sanction of       Payment    Expected payment
Houses  Paid  sanctioned   payment pending  pending         completion by:
with DC           with LAC
FESS-201       10      10                                               Completed
- 38 -



FESS-202      79      68        4              7              0      December 31, 2000
FESS-203      10      79        0              1              0      December 31, 2000
Total         99      87        7              9              0
10.   The November 1999 mission found that house compensation rates appeared to be below
replacement costs. It was agreed with WAPDA to revise house compensation rates originally based on
WAPDA's 1990 Schedule of Rates to its 1998 Rates for those houses, for which compensation was
pending when the 1998 Rates were introduced. The ICR mission in May 2000 was inforrmed that
GOPunjab and WAPDA found that there was no legal ground for revision, since the PAPs had accepted the
compensation payments without protest.
11.   Fruit tree compensation. The status of compensation payments by September 30, 2000 was 33%
completion As in the case of house compensation, the primary bottleneck hampering progress is delayed
sanctioning of payments by the District Collector.
Contract      Total     Total   Payment        Sanction of        Payment
entitled   PAPs   sanctioned    payment pending    pending
PAPs      paid                  with DC             with LAC
FESS-201         4         4          0                0               0
FESS-202        131       57          2               72               0
FESS-203        .2         0          0                2               0
Total            137      61          2               74               0
12.   Crop compensation. Crop compensation was 70% completed by September 30, 2000.
Contract      Total     Total   Payment        Sanction of        Payment
entitled   PAPs   sanctioned    payment pending    pending
PAPs      paid                  with DC             with LAC
FESS-201         0         -          -                -               -
FESS-202        450       340         -                -              110
FESS-203         50       10          -                -               40
Total           500       350         -                -              150
13.   The funds required for the remaining compensation payments for houses, fruit trees and crops are
available with the project authorities.
Economic rehabilitation
14.   The total number of land losers are estimated to be 4,876. This figure is calculated on the basis of
- 39 -



the PAP database which at the time of the ICR mission covered land compensation payments for 77.5% of
the total acquired area involving 3,779 entitled PAPs. Of these PAPs, the bulk (2,225 or 46%) are farmers
with small land holdings of 6 acres or less after land acquisition, and 1,637 land losers (33%) have very
small holdings of 2.5 acres or less. The size of a viable land holding has been estimated to be around 8
acres under pre-drain conditions, and 6 acres after the drains became operational. The size of a viable land
holding represents an income of over Rs 31,400 for a family of 7, which is the assumed poverty line.
15.   Immediate impacts. All land acquisition has been undertaken to create a right of way (ROW) for
drains, and as a result, the land losers are also among the direct beneficiaries of the drainage that has now
enabled or increased cultivation on previously water logged areas. Direct benefits for land losers on their
remaining land along the drains comprise (i) increasing yields and (ii) higher cropping intensity. The
mission found that land losers with holdings exposed to water logging before drain construction reported
yield increases for wheat of 1.2 to 2.5 times that of last year depending on the severity of water logging.
Within the project area, the average yield increase for wheat during the last season has been 58%. For
holdings with land totally out of cultivation due to water logging, the wheat yields are now reported by
farmers interviewed to be between 800 kg and 1,300 kg per acre depending on the use of inputs. Most
farmers stated that yields would have been higher if adequate irrigation water had been available, and most
expected yields to increase next year when soil salinity decreases. A significant measure to improve
incomes from farming would be adequate and timely delivery of irrigation water, which would be facilitated
by the proposed return to continuous flow in the irrigation canals. The lack of timely and adequate supply
of irrigation water is a main finding of the Survey of Non- Viable PAPs: Willingness about Resettlement
Packages, to Engage in Improved Agricultural Practices, Present Agricultural Practices and Suggestions
Regarding Improvements, FESS, 1999.
16.   Winners and losers. Most of the PAPs interviewed including smaller landowners stated that their
incomes after the wheat harvest would be higher than or equal to incomes before land acquisition.
However, there is also a category of farmers who in spite of production increases on their remaining land
have suffered a decline in income as a result of land acquisition. Where production increases on the
remaining land is higher than or equal to the production on the land lost, incomes have been restored.
Where this is not the case, incomes have declined as a result of land acquisition. The number of 'winners'
with holdings of 6 acres or less are estimated as 951 (43% of the category), and the corresponding number
of 'losers' as 1,274 (57%).
17.   Income restoration measures. The economic rehabilitation measures that are being implemented
will also include PAPs whose lands have been acquired for the NC- 12 drain where the balance drainage
work due to litigation is still to be completed under the FSR Project. WAPDA has proposed precision land
leveling as a general measure to improve the productivity on the remaining land holdings of the estimated
2,225 PAPs left with 6 acres or less. This assistance targets all non-viable farm units affected by land
acquisition, and includes the land losing PAPs that have suffered an income decline despite the productivity
increase resulting from the drains. The benefit deriving from precision land leveling is estimated to be a
production increase of around 20% as well as savings in irrigation water requirement. The amount of land
to be covered by precision land leveling is estimated to be around 8,000 acres. With costs per acre at Rs.
1,320, the total costs would be Rs. 10.5 million. Additional rehabilitation measures, such as demonstration
and application of zero-tillage techniques, will be identified for the 1,637 land losers with holdings below
2.5 acres.
18.   WAPDA has signed a contract with the Director General Water Management that is being funded
under the National Drainage Project for the precision land leveling. Work has commenced. Implementation
of this activity is expected completed by December 31, 2001.
- 40 -



Grievance redress
19.   Grievances have been dealt with at the project level by the Project Director, rather than through the
Project Grievance Redress Committee. The Project Grievance Removal Committee comprises the Project
Director of FESS, and the Land Acquisition Collector, Executive Engineer and Senior Sociologist from the
Project Resettlement Office. The project has repeatedly intervened successfully on behalf of the PAPs to
increase compensation rates for land acquired under Section 17(4) of the LA Act above the usually nominal
rates awarded by the DC's office. The higher level Grievance Redress Committee has only held one
meeting in Lahore in February 1999. Although WAPDA has made a commitment to hold a meeting in the
project area, this has been repeatedly postponed and is yet to take place. The project must ensure that PAPs
are informed well in advance of the meeting date to enable submission of grievances for consideration by
the Committee. The Grievance Redress Committee comprises the Member (Eng.), P&D Department,
General Manager (Water), Central Division, WAPDA, Representative of the Board of Revenue,
Representative of the I&P Department, and Project Director (FESS).
20.   Once (revised) awards have been announced by the DC's office, the only avenue for grievance
redress is with the District Courts. At present, 24 cases are contested at court.
PAP database and monitoring
21.   PAP database. An electronic menu-driven PAP database in MICROSOFT Access has been
established, but data entry on asset losses and compensation payments as well as for grievance redress at
the project level is not yet fully completed. While the database when fully completed would provide an
example of good practice, it is discouraging that project management had until the ICR mission not made
use of the database as a tool for project monitoring. The database will have to be maintained and updated
beyond the project closing date to record both compensation payments and the provision of economic
rehabilitation assistance. WAPDA will train and deploy staff designated for this task and capable of data
entry and database operation by June 30, 2000.
22.   Extemal Monitoring Consultant. The third report of the extemal monitoring consultant was
submitted by WAPDA during the ICR mission. The report reiterated findings that has been reported both
in earlier aide memoires and reports by the monitoring consultant, namely that participation of PAPs and
information dissemination have been inadequate. Thus, only 6% of PAPs in FESS-202 and 13% in
FESS-203 were found to know that any economic rehabilitation measures would be undertaken, and none
knew about the existence of any formal grievance redress procedures. However, the Project Director,
FESS maintained that the high number of requests received by him from PAPs regarding economic
rehabilitation indicates a higher level of awareness. Finally, the consultant reported that despite the
measures taken by the project to curtail illegal gratification related to compensation payments, this is still
being practiced by some of the village Patwaris. This matter is being further pursued by the project for the
remaining compensation payments.
23.   Impact monitoring is required of the economic rehabilitation assistance to PAPs beyond the project
closing date. The Watercourse Monitoring & Evaluation Directorate, which is currently involved in
monitoring of drainage impacts, has been assigned this task under funding from the NDP. Baseline data
for a sample of 70 PAPs receiving economic rehabilitation assistance will be established to enable
monitoring of the impacts of the drains and from rehabilitation through precision land leveling. The present
questionnaire will be modified to include non-farm employment for the sample PAPs included in the
rehabilitation impact monitoring. The sample will include farmers living on land that were previously
exposed to various degrees of waterlogging.
- 41 -



Annex 9. Borrowers Evaluation Report
PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH) - PHASE-1
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWERS EVALUATION
OF
FESS PROJECT PHASE-1 COMPLETION
PROJECT DIRECTOR FESS PROJECT,
BAHAWALNAGAR
NOVEMBER, 2000
- 42 -



BORROWERS EVALUATION
OF FESS PROJECT PHASE-1 COMPLETION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Background
2. Assessment of Project Concept and Objectives
3. Assessment of Project and Design
4. Assessment of Project Implementation
5. Assessment of Project Operation
6. Proposed arrangements for future O&M
7. Performance of Borrower
8. Performance of Bank
9. Relationship between Borrower and Bank
10.Lessons leamt
1.  BACKGROUND
Background of the project borrowed from Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) is as follows.
The Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia South (FESS) Irrigation and Drainage Project Phase-I is located near
Bahawalnagar about 300 km south of Lahore in the southeastern corner of the Punjab. It lies between
two branches (Hakra and Malik) of Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Canal and covers a gross area of about
121,000 ha with a CCA of 105,000 ha. Seepage of water from unlined irrigation canals, inefficient use
of irrigation water and deficient surface drainage led to intolerable rise of the groundwater levels. As a
result, the project area is severely waterlogged and salinized. Increase in intensity of agriculture above
the design intensity due to the pressure of population and lesser deliveries of water at the tails of the
irrigation channels due to siltation and enhanced diversions in the head reaches, has resulted in
shortages of irrigation of water in the system, which has further enhanced the process of salinization.
At the current rate of increase, it was estimated that about 50 percent of the CCA would be under
severe conditions of waterlogging and salinity in the near future.
The overall objective of the water sector in Pakistan is the development of land and water resources so
as to increase agricultural production from the land leading to self-sufficiency in food and fiber.
Waterlogging and salinity are the main causes impeding optimum agricultural development. In order to
avert this twin menace, an integrated approach is required. The Fordwah Eastem Sadiqia South (FESS)
Project Phase-I, designed to combat these problems, had the following objectives:
1.    Increase the agricultural productivity, employment and farm incomes;
2.     Reduce the need for expensive sub-surface drainage and the environmentally harmful effects of
such drainage;
3.    Improve the equity of water distribution;
4.     Develop models for integrated irrigation and agricultural management involving a "demand
based" system and enhanced farrner participation; and
5.    Improve the capabilities of the implementing agencies for preparing; implementing and
- 43 -



maintaining irrigated agricultural projects.
In line with the above objectives, the project consisted originally of the following components; as per
PC-I Proforma of September 1992.
1 .    Construction of interceptor drains, 280 km in length, along branch canals and four large
distributaries;
2.    Lining of 176 km length of distributaries and minors;
3.    Improvement/lining of 340 watercourses;
4.    Construction of 159 km length of surface drains;
5.    Field trials and monitoring for Phase-2 (6 sites);
6.    Irrigation and drainage research;
7.    Agricultural extension support;
8.    Monitoring and evaluation of project impact;
9.    Technical assistance and staff training; and
10.   Future project preparation.
The board of Directors of the World Bank approved the project in June 1992 and the Loan Agreement
between Government of Pakistan and the World Bank was signed in October 1992. The implementation
of the project was to take six (6) years from March 1993 to March 1999. The very inclusion of
components such as field trials, monitoring, research etc. in the scope of project would generally
suggest a probable occurrence of appreciable modifications in the overall configuration of any project.
As expected, this project too underwent substantial modifications in the original scope of works as per
experience gained during execution of the works in the initial years of the project. Consequently, the
final project had the following components.
1.    Farmer managed interceptor-cum-subsurface drains (ICSD);
2.    Canal lining of 173 km including 34 km of experimental lining;
3.    Improvement/lining of 415 watercourses;
4.     Surface drains of 277 km, excluding 20 km incomplete drains in NC 12 contract;
5.    Field trials and monitoring for Phase-2;
6.    Irrigation and drainage research;
7.    Monitoring and evaluation of project impact;
8.    Technical assistance and training; and
9.    Future project preparation.
The project period was extended from 6 to 7 years (up to June 2000) and the estimated project cost was
revised from Rs. 2,296.36 millions to Rs. 3,488.161 millions. IDA co-financed up to $ 54.2 million and
GOP/GO-Punjab provided the remaining funds.
The WB/SAR 1992 estimated that implementation of the project works will make an additional
quantity of about 91,000 AF of water available to the area by reducing recharge to the ground water
table. The project will also provide appropriate environment for new water inputs, which will ultimately
result in increasing cropping intensities and crop yields. Cropping intensity was expected to increase
forn 133 percent (with OFWM but without project) to 159 percent (with the project). The project
would result in about 15 percent increase in yield of cotton and sugarcane, 10 percent in mustard and
rape and 5 percent in wheat.
2.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT CONCEPT AND OBJECTIVES
The basic concept of FESS Phase-l project was that before taking up costly sub-surface drainage
- 44 -



projects, water conservation measures should be adopted to reduce the sub-surface drainage
requirements. This is a laudable concept. However care is to be exercised so that the cost of water
conservation measures may not be unreasonable and so high that one may finally end-up with a costlier
project.
The objectives of the project (increased agricultural production, reduced need for sub-surface drainage,
improved water distribution etc.) are the logical outcome of the project concept. Monitoring and
evaluation is an important component of such a project so that the effects of water conservation
measures are properly monitored to provide input in the design of sub-surface drainage part later on.
The water conservation measures proposed for the area were watercourse improvements, interceptor
drains and canal lining. Watercourse improvement works have been carried out satisfactorily on the
basis of cost sharing with the farmers. The saving of the water as a result of the improvement of 412
watercourses estimated by IIMI is more than the original estimate of 75,400 AF annually in the SAR.
Construction of interceptor drains was dropped when trials showed that their construction would not be
economically justified. In their place farmer managed interceptor-cum-surface drains (ICSD) were
proposed. But the lining for distributaries and minors carried out under the project (geomembrane
covered with concrete slab placed on the compacted foundation) has proven to be disproportionately '
high-cost, when actual water savings by it are seen. IIMI has shown that the saving due to the canal
lining was only 13% of the total saving by lining and watercourses improvement. (IWASRI evaluation
is even less, see publication No. 204 refers). A comparison of the published results is shown below:
SAR       91,100    Saved water available at root zone level, both from interceptors and canal lining,
AF        for annual diversion of 1.165MAF at the canal head. (SAR does not indicate the
break-up.) This is equivalent of 210,880 AF at the canal head. Allowing 182
cfs, (or 121,330 AF) assurned in original design of the interceptors, savings on
account of canal lining is about 89,550 AF or 134 cfs at canal head, for 335
days operation
IWASR    11,400    Estimation made of annual water savings at the root zone due to lining only.
I         AF        This is equivalent of 15,215 AF at canal head for annual diversion of
464,692AF. Apparently this diversion is meant by IWASRI report at the head of
lined sections? (IWASRI review of the tests by "in-and-out" method carried out
by IIMI, in the same table gives savings at 48,182 AF at the canal head). Refer
IWASRI Publication No 204 of December 1998.
IIMI      26,621    IIMI review of their own measurements. This is comparable to IWASRI figure
AF        of 48,182 AF mentioned above. This lower saving shown by IIMI is attributed
to 'improved inflow-outflow methodology and more number of tests used in the
evaluation by IIMI). Refer IWMI Publication No R85 of June 1999.
The results clearly indicate that the actual savings of the water have been much less than had been
foreseen at the time of design.
The inclusion of research on Integrated Irrigated Agriculture Management (later named Participatory
hIrigation Management-PIM) aiming at the creation of farmer organizations which are capable of
taking over the O&M of the irrigation system as well as the collection of 'abiana', was a very useful
and timely step as GOP now wants to involve the beneficiaries in these activities and is taking steps in
this direction. Similarly the inclusion, at the time of mid-term review, of pilot Farmner Managed
Interceptor-cum-Sub-surface Drainage (ICSD), in which the farmers have not only assumed
- 45 -



responsibility for operation and maintenance of the drainage system but have also contributed over 10
percent of the cost of construction of the system, was also a good idea. These two parts of the project
have contributed greatly in our understanding of how to involve the beneficiaries in irrigation and
drainage activities and have played a pioneering role in this regard in the country.
3.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT PREPARATION AND DESIGN
The project has been prepared with great diligence on the part of both GOP and the World Bank, which
assisted GOP in the preparation of the revised project. A large number of organizations were involved
in the implementation of the project. But the delineation of responsibility of each organization was
carefully done so that all parts of the project could be implemented without duplication of any activity.
However, besides the construction part of the project (surface drains, interceptor drains, canal lining,
on-farm water management) the project included a substantial research component consisting of field
trials for interceptor and sub-surface drains and irrigation & drainage research. The research
component was expected to provide input to the construction component of the project as construction
of interceptor drains and canal lining. Research usually proceeds at a much slower pace than
construction and reliable research results become available for adoption after a long period of time. The
canal losses measured as part of the research component, by using ponding-method showed that the
losses were much lower than had been assumed in the original design. However, partially because the
research findings were not concluded timely, the benefit of substantial savings by reduction of the
production lining was missed?
Furthermore, if construction work is not carried out quickly according to the implementation schedule
the cost of construction invariably increases. Delays occurred in the construction of surface drains due
to various reasons. A number of research studies which were dependent on the completion of surface
drains for the disposal of drainage affluent (sub-surface trial sites 2 and 3) suffered due to this reason.
4.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The implementation of the project involved a large number of agencies. A good job of detailed
preparation of institutional arrangements was carriedout in the WB/SAR wherein the role of various
agencies was defined. However, some confusion about the exact role of each agency and tasks to be
performed by it prevailed in the minds of the monitoring and research agencies until an Integrated
Research Plan was prepared by the combined efforts of IWASR and IMII in July 1994.
The SAR envisaged that the project would be implemented in a period of six years (FY 93 to FY 99). It
further envisaged that beside mobilization, the appointment of consultants, preparation of final designs
and tenders for civil works, procurement of equipment and vehicles, 5 percent of construction of civil
works should be carried out in the first year of the project. This proved unrealistic because of the
unusual events happening from the start. Drainage Consultants were appointed in November 93 for a
period of six years. Design of Trial sites for sub-surface drainage and interceptor drains was completed
in June 1994, tender documents were completed in December 1994 and construction on the first
contract (FESS-101) was started in September 1995, nearly two years from the start.
Inspite of all the efforts of the Borrower and the Bank and frequent discussions between the two parties;
the contracts for the surface drains (FESS-201 & FESS-202) could be awarded in July 1997 whereas,
as per Project Implementation Schedule of the WB/SAR, about 60% work on the surface drain should
have been completed by that time. It is believed that this delay in the award of contract by Wapda was
caused by the unusual events that cannot be allowed in the project design.
- 46 -



As against drainage component, award of lining contracts was much smoother. Two contracts for canal
lining were awarded in August 1996 (when about 40% works should have been completed as per
aforesaid WB/SAR schedule) with a completion period of 24 months. The contractor's progress
remained almost according to schedule. Some delay in the completion of these contracts occurred due to
some differences between PID and the contractor regarding the design of the outlets and due to some
additional works assigned during execution of the contracts. The contracts were substantially completed
by May 1999.
A major problem encountered by the contractor during execution of the canal-lining contract was the
water theft. Water stealing was done by the farmers through tempering of outlets and by making cuts in
the diversion channels. Sometimes these cuts resulted in breaches. However the contractor took care of
these problems and had to compensate the concemed persons for their losses due to breaches.
The water management component of the project was also executed quite smoothly. Besides the usual
component of watercourse improvements with the assistance of the Water User's Association (WUA's),
it also provided for the formation of higher level farmer organizations as Water User's Organizations
(WIVUO's) at the level of the minors, and Water User's Federation (WUF) at the distributary level. They
were also trained in the performance of operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the
distributary channel. WUFs have been established at three distributaries and the responsibilities of 0
and M and revenue collection have been transferred to them. Staff from IIMI and OFWM on different
channels carried out the establishment of the FOs and their training.
In addition three FOs were established by the Surface Drainage Consultants, on three pilot
Interceptor-cum-Sub-surface-Drainage (ICSD) systems installed in highly waterlogged areas near to the
canals. These FOs have already taken over full responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
these systems. Beside this they have also borne over 10 percent of the construction cost of these
systems. This pilot programme has set a good example of the operation and maintenance of drainage
systems by the farmers. The taking over of O&M responsibilities of three distributary canals and three
pilot drainage systems by the farmers organizations is a pioneering achievement of the project and will
go a long way in establishing the sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system of the country.
5.     ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OPERATION
On the surface drainage side, the experience of operation of the system is quite limited till now because
of delayed completion of the surface drainage systems. However, canal-lining part of the project has
been completed. It has been found that, due to the lining of the Distributaries, the tails of these channels
are receiving more supplies than before, canal-breaches have been reduced, while maintenance
requirements of the canals and requirement of their watch and ward have also reduced. Deposition of
silt in the canals has decreased resulting in higher deliveries of water to the tails of the channels. This
has resulted in more equitable distribution of the irrigation supplies in the project area.
On the water management side, the immediate effect of watercourse improvements has been the
increase in irrigation supplies to the fields, which will ultimately result in increased crop production.
O&M responsibilities on three distributary canals and three pilot ICSD systems have been transferred
to the farmers organization only recently. As such experience with the quality of O&M work being
done by them is limited.
6.  PROPOSED ARRANGEMENTS FOR O&M
The Permanent Operating Agency (POA) responsible for complete operation and maintenance of the
FESS Irrigation and Drainage Project is the Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Authority (PIDA). The
- 47 -



irrigation component of the project has been executed by PIDA and its predecessor Punjab Irrigation
and Power Department. The O&M of the irrigation component is also being carried out by it. The
drainage component has been implemented by WAPDA. As decided at the time of the visit of the World
Bank Supervision Mission of April/May 2000, WAPDA shall be responsible for the O&M of the
drainage component till end June 2001. WAPDA and PIDA shall carry out the joint inspection of the
drainage system in April 2001 and PIDA will take over the system from July 1, 2000 and shall be
responsible for the O&M of the system from that date onwards.
As per general policy of GOP, ultimately the O&M of all irrigation and drainage systems shall be
carried out by the farmer organizations and Area Water Boards (AWBs). As such PIDA will continue
its dialogue, and where no such dialogue is taking place start a dialogue, with the concerned farmers to
explore ways in which the farmers shall start participating in the O&M of irrigation and drainage
facilities and also in the determination and collection of water charges and drainage cess.
So far as O&M of lined canals is concerned, it is expected that initially the O&M cost of the lined
canals shall be less than the O&M cost of unlined canals. However, this will change the other way
round after 10 to 15 years when the lining shall become old and deteriorated and the O&M cost of lined
channels shall become much higher than that of unlined canals. PID has prepared a Plan for Operation
and Maintenance (POM) of the project, through its consultants. POM has identified the O&M
requirements of the project and the procedure for carrying out the O&M in a proper and timely manner.
Similarly the FESS Drainage Consultants have prepared Guidelines for O&M for the drainage
component of the project. These guidelines describe the essential elements of operation and maintenance
including objectives, responsibilities, procedures, budgetary requirements etc. pertaining to the surface
and subsurface drainage works constructed under the drainage component of the project.
So far as watercourse improvement works are concerned, the concerned farmers have been organised
into Water Users Associations (WUA's), Water Users Organisations (WUO's) and Water Users
Federations (WUF). Necessary training for the operation and maintenance of the water channels have
been provided to them. As such it is expected that the farmers will be able to operate and maintain these
works properly.
7.  PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
Borrower's performance during project preparation phase was quite satisfactory. The project was
conceived as a sub-surface drainage project by the Borrower and its consultants NESPAK/HARZA and
was planned accordingly in 1991. A programme of surface drainage construction in the area was
already under execution at that time. It was, however, felt at the time of the review of the project by
World Bank for funding that water conservation measures through canal lining and interceptor drains
together with surface drains can substantially reduce the sub-surface drainage requirements of the area.
The Borrower agreed to defer subsurface drainage to Phase-2 of the project and carryout water
conservation measures in Phase-1. The Borrower also agreed to the inclusion of a substantial
monitoring and research component under Phase-I so that site specific inputs for planning, design,
preparation and implementation of Phase-2 of the project may become available
Borrower's performance during project implementation was also satisfactory and accommodating as
regards the planning and design of the Project. A number of changes were made in the project, which
resulted in procurement of skills not previously included in the implementation of the project (social
organizers, data bank developers etc.) and in performance of additional works (preparation of RAP,
planning and design of interceptor cum sub-surface drains etc.) The change of giving up the
construction of interceptor drains in favour of interceptor-cum-sub-surface drains (ICSDs) with the
- 48 -



association of farmers resulted in completely changing the previous design of interceptor drains. A new
group of social scientists, to interact with the farmers for seeking their participation in planning and
construction as well as in operation and maintenance of the interceptor-cum- sub-surface drainage
systems, had to be organized. A substantial increase occurred in the work of construction of surface
drains (159 km to 275 km length) that was also carried out by the Borrower.
Problems did occur in the acquisition of land for the construction of drains. These problems did not
generally result in delay in the construction of drains as these spots were left undug by the contractor
while the work at other sites continued. This, however, affected working by the contractor requiring
repeated mobilization to complete the works and remove the drainage effluent.
On the water management side, the OFWM field teams generally performed quite satisfactorily. There
were some problems regarding late approval of the schemes by the government but these problems were
resolved later on and the assignmnent was completed satisfactorily.
Delay occurred in some of the research studies and trials, analysis of data and preparation of reports, as
Interceptor Drain Trials and preparation of Groundwater Model, due to the non-availability of properly
trained staff and unfortunate discontinuation of the support from Netherlands Research Assistance
Project (NRAP) to IWASRI. Besides this, some research studies (such as Surface Drainage and
Sub-surface Drainage Trials) could not be carried out or completed because of the non-completion of
the Surface Drains at that time.
Research component had included trials and tests before implementing the seepage control interventions
of Interceptor Drains and Lining of the Small Channels. As a result of the large scale field trials the
interceptors in the original scope were deleted and replaced with suitable altematives of Interceptors
cum Subsurface Drains (ICSSD). But the consultants and the department failed to focus on reduction of
the scope of the production lining although the results of the field tests for seepage from the canals had
starting showing that the seepage was much lower than was originally taken into account.
8.  PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
The Bank has done a good job of project supervision by fielding as many as ten intensive missions,
besides eight short missions, for review of the progress of the project during its implementation. The
missions not only carried out detailed review of the progress of project implementation but, while
indicating deficiencies in implementation, also gave helpful and constructive suggestions and advice to
overcome these problems. Without the intensive inputs from the Bank, the project would have been
delayed.
On the water management side, the Bank played a very positive role by amending the Loan Agreement
and providing an amount of US $ 1.5 million to meet the expenditure on civil works after the closure of
OFWM III project. There were, however, certain issues, which require to be addressed. The
introduction of upfront cost sharing was simply to increase collection rate without assessing its impact
on the farmer's financial capacity. Affording capacity of the farmers to share upfront costs needs to be
carefully considered in the future projects.
Due to the limited data it was difficult to accurately define the areas needing sub-surface drainage at the
start. Further, water conservations measures namely the interceptor drains and the lining of the small
channels were also to reduce the sub-surface drainage needs. As such it was decided to first carry out
the water conservation measures (interceptor drains, lining of distributaries and minors, OFWM etc.)
and take up sub-surface drainage under a later phase of the project. Research component had provided
for test-again to confirm the basis of seepage control interventions of interceptor drains and the lining of
- 49 -



the small canals. On evaluation jointly with others the construction of the interceptors was replaced
with ICSDs to be constructed at the selective sites. But evaluation of the results for the canal lining
were delayed, although the seepage tests had started indicating clearly that seepage was much less than
had been taken in the original feasibility report. Evaluation carried out later confirmed that the
production lining of small channels needed substantial reduction. Lining of high seepage reaches in
saline zones may have been a more prudent and economically justifiable option.
9.  RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BORROWER AND THE BANK
The successful and timely completion of any project depends on the relationship between the Borrower
and the Lender especially in those projects where the Lender is also involved in the technical
supervision of the project. The relationship between the Borrower and its various agencies, WAPDA,
PID, OFWM, and the Bank remained very cordial throughout. The Bank and the Borrower carried out
project supervision jointly during visits of the Bank's Review Missions while prompt actions were
taken on the recommendations of the Missions. Special attention was paid, both by the Bank and the
Borrower, to the critical issues, which were resolved in time to ensure successful implementation of the
project. Differences, however, occurred between the Borrower and the Bank on the award of drainage
and lining contracts. While the problem of lining contracts were quickly resolved, the award of two
surface drainage contracts took a very long time and resulted in delay in the implementation of the
project.
10.   LESSONS LEARNT.
1)    Changes in the requirements of the Borrower (e.g. Bank Guarantee in place of Performance
Bond) as well as that of the lending agency (e.g. as preparation of RAP) should not be made
applicable to the under implementation projects because these changes take time in
understanding, organizing and implementing while the overheads continue to build up on the
project with the result that there are substantial increases in project costs which affect the
project's economics.
2)     At the time of planning of the projects, the economics of the high cost components of the
project should be studied separately so that only economically justifiable components are
selected for inclusion in the project.
3)     The Implementing Agency is sometimes helpless between the Rules of the Government and of
the Lender. Some way out should be devised for such situations.
4)     The programnme of organizing the farmers for taking over the responsibilities of operation and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems was successfully carried out by Punjab
Agriculture Department (Water Management) and by the Drainage Consultants. However the
ultimate success of these programmes is yet to be demonstrated by the farrner's organizations.
As such it is necessary that full support and cooperation should continue to be provided to
these FOs by PIDA and PAD till such time that these FOs may be able to carry out the O&M
functions without any outside assistance. Very useful input regarding organizing farmers for
operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems has been obtained from the
experience of organizing farmers on this project which is available in some detail in the
relevant reports prepared by Drainage Consultants and by Water Management/PAD, which can
be usefully consulted by the agencies involved in similar assignments in Pakistan and other
developing countries.
5)    In all future projects, the farmers/beneficiaries should be involved in the planning and
execution of the project from the very beginning. For this purpose a social expert should
always be included in the planning team so that he can ascertain the views of the
fanners/beneficiaries on the various development measures being proposed for the area.
- 50 -



6)    It would be more appropriate that the drainage projects involving the surface and sub-surface
components are implemented in two stages. First the surface drains should be implemented and
monitored and then the sub-surface drainage component is defined and implemented.
7)    Land acquisition cannot be completed before construction begins but would be appropriate to
make a good start well ahead of the construction. The process of LA has become more
demanding and difficult in recent times.
8)    Project Phase 2: In reality the Phase 2 of the project has been initiated by the construction of three
farmers managed ICSDs. Further sub-surface drainage work will be based on post monitoring and
evaluation of the ground water of the project area by IWASRI.
- 51 -






MAP SECTION






-BRD 23407
PAKISTAN                                                                                            IA lFOHA   )
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH) PHASE I
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT                                                                                                PAKITAN /
PROJECT AREA                                                    floI,ooln--.bI,                                         ,
t  ,SD            0                                                                                           --CANAt5DsilbillMesANDdroo  ,Om  R 
@ >~~~~~~                      M     - _ _ _ R A _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ / _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _O N 5
I                                             S\Iq A  \Chis                  "hi J_o nzZ   //                                                                         D          5     1   10          15KSRI
AW_IY /   )   ;-L/I-Lw6.,p-<   /   /    $                                        7hed-ophoJfe-sSlilporddbyT9l@wlddhfralLlDlorneioa -'h,.  r
/              (      /        _-__ .i1,p/urA                                                                                               hoof61 ;Wr ribaWorlddansoeoneRrFl-RETE   JA
PR OJECINTERN AOAL BOUNDARIES
S  'N~~~~~~~~~ar                                                                                                                                                           IISAN ON
Khat                                             METALLED ROAD~~~~~~~  S  S  KLMTE
Rh,ph. ~A~dy5 aIROADS/ STAIO ,aNSI ~ h
-A Mh  -I, -,,a C , W.M.P BOUND,ae ARY g
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RITRAINLBUDRE
DRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE  9






IBRD 31 114
TURKMENISTAN     S    ,<y_     K \        A    A     CHINA
I                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                   ~~PAKISTAN  .        g    _
I  FORDWAH EASTERN SADIGIA (SOUTH) PHASE 1 I
1>   AFGHANISTAN              T~           ~      79
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT                                                                                                           A                             I0S'0O
Depth to Water (Pre-Monsoon)                                                                                      K                                 ,
June 1 994, 1 997, and 2000                                                                                       )                                          11NPA9
Til,c.m7  pr.od-,J Db, ihM.pDlo ip Unif  o Th. Word 5-k                                                                                                                                                                             '30'P Pro- tAre-                                              3C'
'19_ -bps map d ply, o the pr of Th6 World 5 -k GO-p, o-y                                                                                                                                                                                              PAKIS             N
, l-h, fich     ofccry A .--  PROJECT BOUNDARIES (F.E S PROJECT AREA: 120600 HECTORES)                                                                                                                                                           PALOC7117'A5    ,
METALLED ROADS                                                                                           REE 01                                             I N D I A
-    RAILROADS                                                                                                  RAN
CANALS                                                                                                      r                            5 
M   CITIES                                                                                                     25-            .,.--.          2N7
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A      5       A0    15 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                   ,
oucd-ohk E.,,n- S od qoc ITo..hI Pro.jc6                                  R01 1                 75'
73'00'  30.00,                                    73~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00              Z3~~~~~~~15'      30-00 ~~~~~~~~~73.00'                                                                 3-1   ~          30~000
DEPTH TO WATER TABLE                                      B.h.- .nog.r                               DEPTH TO WATER TABLE                                       Bo. ocor             I  r                  DEPTH TO WATER TABLE                                       S.o  Hoo
DUR JNG JUNE 19 94                                                                                   DURING JUNE, 1997                                                        .DURINGJUNE, 2000                                                                                           S I
O3F AREAA  OF CAREA                                                                                                                                         _OF ARE  '
0 _0c go4%>  _  21                                                                                   0 -90c  27 93%                                               .                                                 _ 090 c 1 9% v 
90 -T crc   36 933                                                                                    0-10        5  9                                                                                      010             0
150 -30T c-  47757%                                                                                                                                                                                       lOT00 1  A  5   300c-   63 98%
300 -450 cr   9.490                                                                                   0   5          .130    5   
450 6009c     067%                                                     4                              5   0                                                                                                 5    0 
=0'Sog                                                                                             .0 D-e   jt    !>                                                                                                                                                              Dg   B
8-    45   ___   U t                               73 15                           7zgaS          1'                 Z vS                                73 15                     |    72245>           )                  71 zu 297AS3 29245                                    21'4<
-29030'                                                                  /939039    293039                                                                                                        2905O~ -29 3097299300
73041                    ~~~~~~~~~~73099'                    73 ~15'                        72045'                             73~009                              731 15                         72~45'                              73'090'                             73 15
NOVEMBER 2000



