vl, -1 I l" v I " I 
Document of
The World Bank
FOk OFFICLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5749-PAK Type: (PM)                         R tpNo. P-5749-PAK
AHMAD, M1. / X82126 / E9 018/  A3AG
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OG  SDR 39.6 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
JUNE 11, 1992
This document bas a restrited distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dsloed without World Bank authorization.



CRENCY EOUIVAYLEN1S
(June 1992)
US$1 - Rs 25.5
Rs 1  - US$0.0392
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                    Metric Unit8
1 inch (in)                         25.4 millimeters (mm)
1 foot (ft)                    -   30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                    -   0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                    -   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                    -   0.405 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)          -   259 ha
1 pound (lb)                   -   0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg t)              -   1.016 metric tons (t)
I cubic foot/second (cfs)      -   0.0283 cubic meters/sec (m3/sec)
1 acre foot (ac/ft)            -   1,233.5 cubic meters (m3)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -    Asian Development Bank
CIR         -    Country Implementation Review
DG          -    Director General
FGW         -    Fresh Groundwater
GOP         -    Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab    -    Government of Punjab Province
ICB         -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB         -    Local Competitive Bidding
O&M         -    Operation and Y.aintenance
PAD         -    Punjab Agriculture Department
PID         -    Punjab Irrigation Department
SCARP       -    Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
UNDP        -    United Nations Development Program
WAPDA       -    Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                 Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries            Punjab Irrigation and Agriculture Departments, and
Water and Power Development Authority.
Amount                   IDA credit : SDR 39.6 million (US$ 54.20 million
equivalent)
Terms                    Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-lending Terms         Not applicable (GOP will pass the credit proceeds to
GOPunjab and WAPDA at IDA terms)
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Government   16.4        -       16.4
IDA          37.0     17.2       54.2
Total        53.4     17.2       70.6
Economic Rate
of Return                22%
Staff Appraisal
ReRort             :    Report No 10461-PAK
ManDs              :     IBRD 23406
IBRD 23407
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BanK authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDAT1ON OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNAT;ONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECITIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE IFLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FORDWAH EASIERN SADIQIA (SOUCTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.          I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation
on a proposed development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR
39.6 million, the equivalent of US$54.20 million, on standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 35 years to help finance a Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South)
Irrigation and Drainage project. Part I of the document discusses Pakistan's
development problems, progress under the Government's economic reform program,
and the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II of the document describes
the proposed credit.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Introduction
2.          Pakistan's growth performance has been strong, with GDP growing by
about 6.5 percent per annum in real terms for most of the 1980s, and averaging
over 5 percent per annum during the period 1950-1985.   This performance
reflects expanding agricultural production which averaged over three percent
in the 1970s and over 4 percent in the 1980s. It also reflects the rapid
.ievelopment of the country's industrial sector, with manufacturing value added
growing on average at 6.7 percent since the late 1970s. Access to substantial
external financing and favorable markets for Pakistan's exports also played a
crucial role in maintaining high GDP growth. Despite the relatively high
levels of growth, however, poverty is widespread, per capita income remains
low at US$390 in 1990/91, and the benefits of this growth have not been widely
shared.   In particular, basic social services are weak and social indicators
poor. Pakistan's high rate of population growth, at over 3 percent per annum,
has increased pressures on the environment, and has meant that much of the
growth has been needed simply to maintain a low level of living for the bulk
of the population.
3.          Pakistan's economy continues to be characterized by many of the
problems confronting low income countries. Its production and export base has
undergone only limited diversification, with agriculture contributing about 26
percent of GDP, employing half the labor force and providing 70 percent of
exports, including agriculture-based manufactlres. Industry remains
concentrated in cotton processing, textiles, petroleum refining and food
processing.   Moreover, despite recent policy reforms, industry still suffers
from poor product quality, outdated technology, and an untrained labor force.
The narrow industrial base and inefficiencies in production reflect continued



distortions in the industrial incentive system as well as high levels of
protection.
4.          Pakistan faces major challenges in sustaining growth and
alleviating poverty. Critical tasks for the 1990s include the need to: i)
sharply expand the provision of basic social services and accelerate efforts
to reduce high population growth; ii) diversify and expand the productive
base in agriculture and industry; iii) improve the management and use of the
country's natural resources, particularly water and domestic energy resources,
with increased attention to environmental concerns; and iv) overcome severe
physical infrastructure bottlenecks, as reflected in increasing energy
shortages and an inadequate transport infrastructure.
5.          In addition to these underlying structural and social issues,
Pakistan continues to face serious macro-economic constraints, marked by high
fiscal and current account deficits. These macroeconomic problems, which
reached unsustainable levels in the late 1980s, prompted the Government to
embark upon a medium-term macro-economic and structural reform program in
1988. The program was presented in the form of a Policy Framework Paper, with
external support provided by the IMF under a SAF and standby arrangement, and
by the World Bank through sector adjustment loans in energy, finance and
agriculture. Additional support was provided by the Asian Development Bank
and several bilateral donors.
The Structural Reform Program
6.          The key objectives of the adjustment program, which has been
broadened in scope and accelerated in several areas since early 1991, are
spelled out in the Government's third year PFP (FY92-94), which was discussed
by the Committee of the Whole in December 1991.1/ The program focuses on
redressing macroeconomic imbalances, improving the economy's growth
performance, and strengthening efforts to tackle poverty and social sector
concerns. Within this framework, one of the Government's principal
objectives is to restructure the respective roles of the public and private
sectors in the economy by withdrawing from those activities which it does
poorly and concentrating public sector efforts on those tasks where it must
play a major role.
7.      More specifically, the program focuses on four main areas of reform:
i) promoting private sector activity and efficiency through
privatization, industrial deregulation, reform of the incentive regime,
implementation of trade policy reform, flexible management of the exchange
rate, and deregulation and adjustments in administered prices;
ii)  improving public expenditure Rerformance by increasing expenditures
on development, in particular for basic infrastructure and human resources,
improving the efficiency with which resources are utilized, and privatizing
v/    The program for FY92 is being supported by the third annual arrangement
under the IM17's Structural Adjustment Facility.



public sector activities which can be more efficiently performed by the
private sector;
iii) strengthening macroeconomic management through fiscal reforms to
increase resource mobilization and reduce +-he fiscal deficit as well as
actions to strengthen the financial sector and move toward a market based
system of credit allocation and monetary management; and
iv) accelerating efforts to tackle poverty and increase low per capita
income through the growth strategy (outlined above) and through preparation
and implementation of a Social Action Program, including policies and programs
which improve the coverage and quality of basic social services and
infrastructure, especially in rural areas, and reduce high population growth.
8.          With respect to macroeconomic targets, the PFP program aims at
average real GDP growth of 6.3 percent over the program period (FY92-94),
assuming continued strong export performance and a strengthening of
investment. Investment levels are programmed to increase from 18.7 percent of
GDP in FY91 to 20 percent in FY94. On the external side, the current account
deficit is targeted to decline from 4.5 percent of GNP in FY91 to 2.5 percent
in the last two years of the program. The overall fiscal deficit was targeted
to decline to 4.8 percent of GDP in FY92 and to remain at that level in the
subsequent two years.
Macro-Economic Developments
9.          GDP growth remained fairly strong during the first three years of
the adjustment program (FY89.FY91), reaching 5.6 percent in FY91, but
inflation proved difficult to control, accelerating in FY89, falling to 6
percent in FY90 and rising to about 13 percent in FY91. This reflected the
monetary expansion which financed the fiscal deficit of FY90 and the added
impact of higher energy prices stemming from the Gulf crisis. Efforts to
strengthen the budget have also been disappointing, with the deficit falling
to 6.4 percent of GDP in FY90, but increasing sharply to 8.8 percent of GDP in
FY91, compared to the 5.5 perc3nt target for that period.
10.         In the external sector, the current account deficit deteriorated
to 4.6 percent of GNP in FY89, reflecting a worsening of Pakistan's terms of
trade; it remained at this level in FY90 and FY91, well above the target of
3.9 percent. Exports, particularly cotton manufactures, have continued to
perform well, growing by over 19 percent in FY91. Nevertheless, this
performance was offset by a substantial rise in imports, including an
additional US$530 million on account of higher import costs for crude oil and
petroleum products during the Gulf crisis. The current account deficit was
financed by a drawdown of already low reserves (to 3.3 weeks of imports) and
short-term external borrowing.
11.         Preliminary estimates for FY92 indicate that Pakistan's economy
continues to register strong growth, with GDP increasing by about 7 percent.
This reflects high growth in the agricultural and industrial sectors and
continued strong performance in the external sector, with exports increasing
by 15 percent, despite a reduction in co:ton prices. Pakistan's balance of



- 4 -
payments, however, remains under pressure, particularly given the very high
import growth experienced in the current year (owing in part to a substantial
increase in imports of machinery and equipment), coupled with a sharp fall in
workers' remittances. As a result, the current account deficit is expected to
be about 5.6 percent of GNP, substantially higher than the 3.4 percent target.
12.     The Government has continued to experience difficulties in fiscal
reform.  This reflects longstanding political constraints which have slowed
efforts to broaden the tax base and improve tax administration. The FY92
program aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit by 4 percentage points of GDP in
order to achieve the PFP target of 4.8 percent of GDP. To achieve this
ambitious target, the Government undertook a number of steps to widen the tax
base, strengthen tax administration, and curtail expenditures. Preliminary
estimates indicate that the target will not be achieved, owing to difficulties
in fully implementing revenue and expenditure measures, as well as delays ln
the impact of certain revenue measures. As a consequence, the fiscal deficit
for FY92 is currently estimated to be around 7 percent of GDP.
PtKISTA - Selectggd Economfc Indicators
(X ner Annua. Fistl Tear)
1973-80    1980-88   1988      198,     1990       1991
GDP (At Narket Prices)  5.4      6.S       7.6       S.0       4.7       5.6
Total Consutption      6.4       5.2       9.3       3.0       4.8       3.S
Gross Domestic Investment    5.8  6.4     -1.3       7.S       1.3       4.6
Exports of GUFS        4.2       8.7      -3.8      12.8       2.9       18.9
ttnprts Of GUFS        9.1       2.2      -1.7       3.9      -2.6       0.3
Inflation (Consumer Price)   11.5  6.0     8.8       7.9       6.0      12.7
PopuLation             3.1       3.1       3.1       3         3.1       3.1
The External Environment
13.         Over the past decade, Pakistan has received substantial external
financing in the form of generous development assistance, together with high
workers' remittances. In the last three years, disbursements of official aid
exceeded US$2.0 billion per annum, while workers' remittances, even though
declining, still reached US$1.8 billion in 1990/91. Although access to
substantial external financing is expected to continue in the coming years,
the level of official support is expected to be lower than in the past, thus
underscoring the importance of Government policies aimed at increasing
reliavce on domestic financing as well as developing an investment climate
conducive to attracting private foreign capital.
14.         The decline in workers' remittances, which are expected to amount
to only US$1.4 billion in FY92, reflects in part the lower demand for foreign
labor in the Middle East, but also the iutroduction of foreign currency
accounts in Pakistan. Since foreign exchange deposits at Pakistani banks are
now permitted to earn interest at rates tied to LIBOR, they have become an
attractive substitute to direct remittances in recent months. These inflows,



which are accounted for as increases in foreign exchange liabilities, increase
the volatility of capical flows financing the current account.
15.         Pakistan remains highly dependent on exports of raw cotton and
cotton manufactures. As a consequence, a general slow-down in world demand as
well as protectionist measures by industrialized countries, would have a
significant impact on the economy, constraining future growth. Export quotas
for cotton manufactures are utilized almost fully and growth rates are
constrained.   In addition, Pakistan remains  vulnerable to external terms ,f
trade shocks, in particular changes in international petroleum prices,
although this could be reduced by developing domestic energy resources.
Progress Under the Adiustment Program
16.         Pakiscan's performance under its adjustment program has been
impressive in terms of growth but mixed in other areas. Efforts to open up
the economy, improve the environment for private sector activity, and begin to
reduce the scope of public sector activities by shifting tasks to the private
sector, have met with considerable success. The Government is also moving
ahead with plans to more effectively tackle social sector issues. On the
other hand, the continuing high fiscal and current account deficits underscore
the difficulties encountered in addressing microeconomic issues.
i7.         In terms of opening up the economy and facilitating private
investment, substantial progress has been made. The important reforms in
deregulation, the lifting of foreign exchange controls, and the elimination of
investment sanctioning, which were implemented during FY91, have helped to
develop a more hospitable framework for the private sector. A start has also
been made in reducing non-tariff barriers and in lowering tariffs, although
much more needs to be done in trade reform to reduce the level of protection.
18.         The Government has also continued its reform of the financial
sector, including the introduction of an auction system for Government
securities and steps to improve competition in the sector (approval of several
new private financial institutions and privatization of the nationalized
commercial banks, two of which have already been sold). These reforms, which
enabled the Bank to release the second tranche of the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan in March 1992, are important elements for promoting a stronger
private sector, improving overall resource mobilization and allocation and
helping to pave the way for the needed increase in the savings rate. With the
increased emphasis on private financial institutions, however, further reforms
in the sector are required to ensure the development of a sound financial
system. These include strengthening the regulatory framework for the banking
system, phasing out of directed credit and lending schemes and further
developing the market based system for direct monetary management. The
Government is also addressing the uncertainties raised by the recent decision
of the Shariat Court on the payment of interest which have a bearing on the
future development of the financial sector.
19.         Considerable progress has also been made in the Government's
privatization program. Of the 103 industrial units which have been put up for
sale, 34 have been or are about to be transferred to the private sector, with



-
another 16 units in the process of being transferred. The Government is also
committed to the privatization of telecommunications and is initiating work on
a privatization strategy and an appropriate regulatory framework. Initiatives
aimad at increasing Private sector participation in the energy sector are also
being pursued. These include development by the power authority (WAPDA) of a
privatization strategy for some of its activities, and Government actions to
reduce its ownership share in energy sector enterprises such as SNGPL in the
gas subsector. Continued progress in the Government's policy reform
initiatives in the energy sector enabled the Bank to release the second
tranche of the Second Energy Sector Loan in December 1991. The Government
recognizes that its ambitious privatization program needs to be complemented
by an appropriate regulatory and incentive framework in the concerned sectors.
20.         The Government's development objectives also focus on social
sector issues, including preparation of a Social Action Program. A
preliminary version of this program was presented to the Pakistan Consortium
in April 1992. The program is currently being revised and further developed.
The Social Action Program is part of a process which aims at: i) strengthening
the Government's political commitment to do more for the social sectors; ii)
removing implementation constraints; and iii) sharply expanding cost-effective
spending on basic social services, particularly from public sources but also
from the private sector, including assistance of external donors.
Development and Adjustment Challenges
21.         Pakistan's future development and adjustment agenda focuses on the
need to: create a stable macro economic framework and move forward with its
policy reform agenda; mobilize and allocate more resources to meet development
needs, while ensuring the efficient use and balanced allocation of these
resources among sectoral priorities; strengthen the environment for private
sector investment and private sector participation in meeting development
goals; accelerate efforts to tackle poverty issues, including actions to
further develop and implement the Government's Social Action Program; and
develop specific programs and policies needed to implement Pakistan's National
Conservation Strategy, recently approved by the Cabinet.
22.          Pakistan also continues to grapple with difficult issues of
governance, including serious problems of law and order and ethnic conflict,
as it continues efforts to develop a modern, participatory political culture.
In addition, as evidenced by recent decisions of the Shariat Court, Pakistan
faces difficult social and political issues as it endeavors to balance the
requirements of its Islamic state with the demands of an open economy fully
integrated in the world economy.
23.         Macroeconomic Environment.  Reestablishing a sustainable macro-
economic framework remains one of Pakistan's major challenges if it is to
ensure a solid basis for continued strong economic growth. This requires an
accelerated effort to address balance of payments constraints and raise
dangerously low reserves, including further actions to improve international
competitiveness and speed up trade reform. Even more challenging is the need
to overcome the political constraints which have slowed Government efforts to
increase resource mobilization and bring the budget deficit under control.   A



s-stained political commitment over the medium-term is needed to carry through
with structural reforms of the tax regime, i.e., reducing widespread
exem.ptions, putting in place an equitable income tax regime covering all
income, including the currently exempt agricultural sector, and improving tax
administration.
24.         Mpbilizing and Allocating Adeguate Resources for Development.
Fiscal constraints coupled with inefficiencies in project implementation and
the utilization of resources have resulted in severe underfunding and slow
progress in meeting Pakistan's medium and long term development requirements,
including both capital and recurrent expenditures. As a consequence, the
Government has been unable to allocate sufficient resources to meet its
development requirements, both to catch up with the large backlog of
investments in the social sectors and basic infra3tructure, as well as to
ensure the efficient operation and maintenance of its investments. For the
near term, the PFP establishes a target of 7 percent of GDP for the
development budget, based on an estimate of resource availability. This
target, while representing an increase over recent year's performance, is
still too low, given Pakistan's large development agenda, and should be viewed
as an interim target.
25.          In addition to strengthening resource mobilization at the
federal, provincial and local community levels, increasing spending on
development also requires changes in the composition of public spending,
including further efforts to reduce subsidies and other non-productive
expenditures. The country's high level of spending on defense remains an
issue, but one which the Government regards as needing to be addressed within
a regional context. There is also a need to rationalize the public sector
investment program--a task which the Government is undertaking--with a view to
dropping low priority projects, while ensuring adequate funding for the timel;
execution of high priority projects. Over the past year, the Government's
push to start a number of large new investment projects, particularly in
transport and telecommunications, has highlighted the need to: i) review
carefully the trade-offs between human capital and physical infrastructure, as
well as between spending on operations, maintenance/rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure and new projects; and ii) maintain the growth of development
expenditures within available resources.
26.         Pakistan's development effort also confronts numerous project
implementation delays, as marked in part by slow disbursement of project aid.
These implementation of problems include weak project management, a slow
decision-making process, and a small and relatively underdeveloped contracting
industry as well as local funding constraints. Resolving resource
constraints, therefore, will not be enough to accelerate public investment and
improve services, without increased attention to public sector management
issues, including improvements in the public service.
27.         Private Sector Role and Contribution.   Having lifted most
controls on new investment, the Government's continuing challenge is to
further improve the environment for private sector investment and foster
competitiveness. This requires actions to accelerate trade reform; improve
the effectiveness and transparency of incentive policies; continue the



-8-
development and modernization of Pakistan's financial system; and expand
efforts to address problems of poor ua.d inadequate infrastructure and a poorly
trained labor force. Pakistan's ability to attract increasing amounts of
foreign investment--an important L idium term objective--also depends to a
great extent on the country's ability to resolve law-and-order issues and
provide the basic infrastructure needed to provide a more secure and
attractive environment for new investment. Removing uncertainties created by
the Shariat Court decision on the payment of interest will also be important
for attracting private investors.
28.         Poverty Reduction.  Poverty is pervasive in Pakistan, especially
in rural areas and small towns. Close to 30 percent of Pakistan's households
fall below the poverty line. This heavy incidence of poverty results in large
part from the limited access of the poor to productive assets and from
inadequate public social services. The past decade has seen some success in
allocating more resources to basic health and education services, but the
coverage and quality of service delivery remain far from adequate. Progress
has also been too slow to affect fertility, and Pakistan's population growth
rate, at over 3 percent, itself creates conditions that make future progress
harder.   The high population growth rate and the neglect of human resourcer
development have resulted in some of the poorest social development indicators
in the world: an infant mortality rate of 107 per thousand, an illiteracy rate
of 74 percent and high malnutrition among children. Moreover, largely because
of rapid population growth, landlessness is increasing, with the average size
of farms operated by the poor also declining. These trends further complicate
poverty reduction efforts.
29.         To overcome these constraints, the country's education, health and
family planning, and water and sanitation delivery systems will have to expand
much faster than in the past and their quality will have to be improved
considerably. At the same time, a much greater effort will be needed to
create new job opportunities and to eliminate distortions to encourage a more
labor intensive approach to new investment. Strengthening Pakistan's
political, financial and institutional commitment to poverty reduction, also
implies continuing efforts to gradually change attitudes which perpetuate
sharp social and economic inequalities and complicate efforts to enhance the
role of women in contributing to Pakistan's development efforts.
30.         Improving Pakistan's Management of its Natural Resources and the
Environment. As a basically arid country with a fragile environment sensitive
to misuse, the rapid growth of population, urban and industrial areas in
recent decades has put increasing pressure on the country's natural resource
base. Indiscriminate and unchecked development, coupled with a lack of
adequate sewerage and other waste disposal services, has resulted in serious
urban pollution problems, which threaten urban water supplies. Poor
management of the country's vast irrigation network has led to increasingly
serious problems of waterlogging and salinity. Recognizing the growing
importance of these environmental issues, the Government, with external donor
support, has prepared and recently approved a National Conservation Strategy
(NCS). This comprehensive document, which will serve as a basis for
Pakistan's Environmental Action Plan--which is now under preparation with
donor support--covers all areas of major environmental concern from watershed



9 -
protection to range and forestry issues, pollution and contamination issues,
and including the linkages between rapid population growth and the
environment. The strategy stresses the need for policy and regulatory reform,
strengthening of environmental institutions, and a combined approach to
addressing environmental concerns utilizing local communities, the private
sector, NGOs and all levels of government.
31.          The NCS provides a strong basis for moving forward in the
environmental area, but it requires a further effort to turn the strategy into
an effective action program, which sets out priorities and indicates the
specific actions required to achieve them in the short to medium term.   There
are also a number of on-going activities which will support the Goverrment's
efforts to put its environmental strategy into operation. These include
actions to strengthen environmental institutions and develop the legal
framework (which is being supported by the Bank under the Environmental
Protection and Resource Conservation Project); initial steps to improve water
resources management (as supported under the proposed credit for the Fordwah
Sadiqia Project), and preparation, with donor support, of a Forestry Master
Plan.
Bank Group ODerations
32.         As of March 31, 1992, the Bank Group has made 80 loans and 118
development credits to Pakistan since 1952, totalling US$ 4,446.7 million and
US$3,469.7 million (both net of cancellations), respectively. Of these
amounts, US$1010.24 million has been repaid and US$2,830.1 million was still
undisbursed as of March 31, 1992. The relatively high level of undisbursed
funds reflects project implementation constraints as well as the rapid build
up of new commitments ir. recent years. Since 1958, IFC has made commitments
totalling US$437 million, of which US$306 million has been repaid, sold,
terminated or cancelled. Of the balance of US$131 million, US$109 million
represents loans and US$22 million equity.
33.         World Bank and IDA assistance to Pakistan has involved both
project loans and credits to support specific investments and related policy
and institutional reforms, as well as quick disbursing adjustment loans and
credits in support of policy adjustments.   Assistance to Pakistan has
steadily increased over the last decade, with average annual commitments
growing from US$160 million in the early 1980s to US$640 million during
FY85-87.   During the period FY89-91 the annual average commitment level
increased further to over US$800 million, owing in part to sector adjustment
lending in support of the Government's adjustment program. In FY91,
commitments amounted to US$677 million. A summary of operations currently
under execution is given in Table 1 below.



- 10 -
PAKISTAN - ONGOING PROJECTS BY SECTOR
Amount     X of Total   No. of
Projects
Agriculture                     1180.4         25          17
Energy                          1321.0         28          10
Industry A/                     832.4          17          9
Infrastructure                   890.1         19          9
of which Basic                 (603.4)        (13)        (6)
Social                      (286.7)        (6)         (3)
PHR                              510.2         11          6
Technical Assistance              7.0          -           I
4.741.1       100          52
^/ Includes Tetecommunications.
Includes urban and rural water supply projects.
34.        In energy Bank lending has focused on expanding the domestic
energy supply, including support for the expansion of private sector
investment in the sector, while also promoting more efficient energy use
through appropriate pricing, conservation, and other methods of managing
demand. Lending for transport and communications has provided financing
mainly for telecommunications and highway development, including support for
institutional strengthening and improving the efficiency of existing assets.
In anriculture, Bank assistance has concentrated on improving the efficiency
of the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services.   Lending in
the industrial and financial sectors, has provided financing to help
revitalize the private sector and to ensure the availability of credit for
small scale industry. Support for the social sectors has focused on the
expansion of rural primary education, with more limited assistance for
vocational education, and for family health and family planning.  In the urban
sector, Bank Group assistance has involved financing for water and sanitation
investments and improvements in urban infrastructure in Karachi and in the
Punjab province.
35.         The Bank has also provided fast disbursing balance of payments
support as part of a program of external support for the Government's
adjustment program. These operations include: the FY88 agriculture sector
adjustment loan, the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (approved in FY89), and
the Second Energy Sector Loan (also approved in FY89). All of these
operations are fully disbursed, except for the investment component of the
energy sector operation.
36.        Implementation of projects in Pakistan has generally been
satisfactory. However, project execution has encountered delays, in some
cases substantial, owing mainly to local funding constraints, weak project
management capacity, a complex public sector decision making process and
cumbersome procurement procedures. Other implementation difficulties stem



- 11 -
from the nature of Pakistan's federal and provincial structure and from the
fact that the country's contracting industry is still developing and remains
relatively small. Given these overall constraints and growing concern with
the slower than expected disbursement performance, the Bank is now carrying
out high level Country Implementation Reviews with the Government on an annual
basis. These reviews focus on both specific actions to address key generic
problems affecting the portfolio, as well as actions needed to resolve major
implementation issues with specific projects.   These reviews have helped to
resolve a number of implementation bottlenecks, as reflected in improved
disbursement performance over the past year. Implementation issues are also
being addressed in donor group meetings in Islamabad and in the Consortium.
37.         IFC is active in financing new ventures and expansions in the
private sector in Pakistan. Recent investments have focused on the general
manufacturing and textile sectors where Pakistan enjoys a comparative
advantage, and in capital markets which are growing more sophisticated.
Investment prospects are currently being considered in fertilizers, textiles,
cement, oil and gas , private power generation, tourism and health care.
Other initiatives include seeking to broaden local stock ownership and to
assist the Government's privatization program.   The opening of IFC1s regional
office in Islamabad is allowing IFC to expand its relationships with private
sector groups and play an increased role in private sector development.
38.         MIGA is developing a more active program with Pakistan, including
both investment guarantees and investment promotion.   As part of this effort,
an Investment Promotion Conference, under MIGA sponsorship, was held in
Islamabad in mid November 1991.   In addition, the Foreign Investment Advisory
Service (FIAS) has recently completed a detailed study of the foreign
investment environment in Pakistan.
Prin_igal Bank and IDA Assistance Objectives
39.         Bank and IDA assistance strategy for Pakistan focuses on four
principal goals: poverty reduction; improving the climate for private sector
development; deepening the structural reform process; and improving the
management of Pakistan's natura_ resources and the environment.
40.         Poverty Reduction.  Bank and IDA efforts to address poverty
reduction objectives encompass initiatives in three main areas.   First,
support for the Government's Social Action Program, with particular emphasis
on the financing of projects in basic health and education and a renewed
effort to address the problem of rapid population growth. Second, support for
projects in agriculture and industry which expand income generating
opportunities for small farmers and for small to micro-size enterprises.
Third, a focus on poverty reduction goals as part of the Bank's macro-economic
and policy dialogue.   This. dialogue covers growth and economic performance
issues which affect the ability of the economy to grow and create new jobs;
resource mobilization and expenditure allocation issues which affect the
capacity of the government to meet its infrastructure and human resource
development goals; and policy actions which aim at improving coverage and
efficiency of basic health and education services.



- 12 -
41.         Private Sector Develoment. Support for private sector
development involves multiple goals and activities. Key elements include: i)
support for policy and institutional reforms which promote private investment,
the introduction of new technology, and enhance the international
competitiveness of industry; ii) assistance to small scale and micro
entrepreneurs as part of the approach to poverty reduction; iii) technical
assistance on privatization matters, including attention to regulatory reform;
iv) support for Government efforts to increase domestic and foreign private
investment in key sectors, especially energy, including financing of a private
sector energy development fund and use of the ECO program to help put together
a financing package for a large private power development; and v) support for
development of basic infrastructure needed to facilitate private sector
activity.
42.         Structural Reform.   Bank and IDA support of the Government's
adjustment and policy reform efforts focuses on a range of issues at the
macro, sectoral and institutional level.  Key policy areas include: public
finance and expenditure issues at the sector and macro level, since improved
resource mobilization and increased spending on development is crucial to
improving prospects for sustained growth; public sector investment
programming and public sector management issues given the importance of
assisting Government to use resources in a cost effective manner to support a
balanced and well prioritized investment program; and financial sector issues,
particularly further development of a market based competitive Banking sector,
given the importance of a sound and competitive banking system, supported by
an appropriate regulatory framework, to strong private sector growth.
43.         The Environment. As a water short country undergoing rapid
population growth and heavily dependent on irrigated agriculture, Pakistan's
growth prospects over the longer term are closely linked to progress in
addressing urban pollution and watershed management issues. The increasingly
serious nature of Pakistan's environmental problems calls for an expanded Bank
effort in this area. Bank and IDA support in the coming years would focus
primarily on: building up relatively new institutions in the sector; helping
develop an effective legal and regulatory framework; and providing ass stance
in financing specific interventions to develop solutions to urban pollution
problems and promote water and natural resources conservation.
Main Features of the Work Progm
44.         Continued Bank support for the Government's   c     l  adjustment
and policy reform efforts would build on earlier sectoral adjustment
operations. Future Bank/IDA support of policy reform would utilize a variety
of vehicles ranging from fast disbursing sector adjustment operations tc
slower disbursing sector investment operations with substantial policy
content.  Over the past year the Bank's policy reform dialogue with the
Governent has focused on preparation of a proposed loan to support public
sector adjustment. The proposed operation would support fiscal reform,
rationalization of the development budget, and actions to improve policies and
increase spending in the social sectors. Although preparation of this
operation is well advanced, some resource mobilization and public expenditure
issues require additional work before the reform program can be finalized.



- 13 -
The Bank is also continuing its discussions with the Government on its plans
for trade reform and further policy adjustments in the financial sector. The
pace of future adjustment lending will be determined by the pace of the
Government's own commitment to moving forward with structural reform,
macroeconomic sustainability, and the Social Action Program.
45.         Bank and IDA assistance in the social seotors aims at supporting
implementation of the Government's Social Action Program.   It focuses on
expanding the coverage and improving the quality of basic health and education
services; more actively addressing the problem of rapid population growth;
expand'.g rural and urban infrastructure, especially water and sanitation,
which is critical for improving basic health indicators; and supporting
efforts to address women-in-development issues. As part of this effort, our
ESW work in the social sectors has been expanded in recent years, including
studies on population, employment and poverty, education, health snd women-in-
development. We have also increasingly made use of the our role as chairman
of the Pakistan Consortium to focus attention on social issues.
46.         With respect to upcoming lending operations, preparatory work is
underway on a second family health project covering Baluchistan and the Punjab
(the first family health project covering Sindh and NWFP was approved by the
Board in FY91 ). Preparatory work is also ongoing to support primary
education development in Baluchistan and NWFP. With respect to women-in-
development issues, we would continue to address the problems of women within-
the context of Bank/IDA projects in agriculture credit, micro-enterprise,
rural water supply, shelter, education and health. Both education projects
under preparation will focus heavily an expanding girls education.
47.         Bank and IDA assistance in agriculture aims at: i) developing a
more efficient demand based irrigation system which would lead to improved
management of Pakistan's water resources and reduction in water logging and
salinity; Bank support would include measures for cost recovery, improvement
in operations and maintenance, and integration of and institutional
strengthening of irrigation and agriculture support services; ii) development
of a more market oriented policy framework for the actor, including measures
to liberalize internal and external marketing, further reduce subsidies, and
move towards international prices (especially for wheat, cotton and rice); and
iLL) strengthening extension and research geared to problems at the farm
level, including actions to promote the development and faster dissemination
of new technology. As part of efforts to strengthen water management, the
Bank, with the support of other donors, is currently developing a medium term
irrigation sector strategy, including a review of proposed future investments
and their priority.
48.         The proposed project in the eastern Sadiqia area supports
Government efforts to control water logging and salinity through improved
water management, while also establishing a framework for improving cost
recovery and supporting a pilot scheme to integrate water and agriculture
support services.   On-going preparation work in the sector includes:
irrigation sector investments, support for seed and livestock development, and
development of hill farming management systems. The Bank is also working with
the Goverrment and other donors to formulate a comprehensive forestry resource



- 14 -
management project. This project would support the Government's Forestry
Master Plan, which is also under preparation.
49.         Bank and IDA assistance in infrastructure would help meet priority
infrastructure needs in energy, basic urban and rural services, and transport,
with emphasis on rationalizing sector investment programs, addressing pricing
and management issues in key subsectors, and strengthening currently
inadequate maintenance and rehabilitation efforts. The main elements of the
Bank and IDA program in each of the three subsectors is summarized below:
a.    In energy the Bank assistatice strategy aims at:
rationalizing investments in the sector and accelerating the development of
domestic energy resources including gas arnd large and small hydro sites,
supporting on-going initiatives to increase private sector participation in
the sector, including partial privatization of WAPDA (the national power
company) and efforts to increase private investment in energy projects;
adjusting the level and structure of energy prices to restrain the growth of
demand for energy and mobilize resources for the sector; reducing losses in
the production and transport of energy through the rehabilitation and
retrofitting of power plants, refineries and energy intensive industries as
well as through the expansion and reinforcement of the transmission and
distribution networks; and strengthening the operations and management of
institutions in the sector. Given the sector's substantial investment
requirements, the Bank expects to continue to place a major emphasis on
increasing private sector investment, while facilitating and coordinating the
mobilization of additional resources from external donors.   Planned future
Bank lending would include an operation to lay the groundwork for the future
privatization of WAPDA (the Water and Power Development Authority), including
the financing of a time slice of WAPDA's FY93-96 power sector investment
program; and lending in support of a major hydro-electric project.
b.   With respect to basic urban services, the assistance program
aims at alleviating the backlog of demand for basic services as part of the
poverty reduction effort, while also helping establish these services on a
sustainable basis. Preparatory work is underway for a series of projects to
strengthen basic services in urban areas in Sinidh while providing technical
assistance and support for policy improvements to strengthen municipal
finances and management; preparatory studies on shelter issues are also well
advanced and when completed are expected to serve as the basis for a future
low-income shelter operation. Preparatory work is also underway on a project
in the Punjab which would focus on the treatment of household and industrial
wastes.  It would be the first free standing project aimed at urban
environmental problems.
c.    In transport, Bank assistance in the next few years will
concentrate on implementation of the Transport Investment Loan (approved in
FY90). This operation supports major structural changes and policy reforms in
the sector, including the progressive transformation of the railway into a
more autonomous and commercially oriented entity; and institutional
strengthening of the National Highway Authority.   Bank assistance in the
sector will also focus on rationalizing the sector investment program,
especially in light of recent issues which have arisen in regard to its



- 15 -
planned growth and balance between rehabilitation and maintenance, and new
projects.
50.         Bank assistance for intustry, trade, and finance is expected to be
channeled through the financial system to meet the financing needs of private
sector enterprises. A first private sector credit operation would support the
development of long-term lending, focusing on institutional and policy issues
in the industrial and financial sectors. A subsequent private sector credit
operation could extend market-based term lending to agriculture and housing.
Economic and Sector Work
51.         Economic and sector work in recent years has focused on policy
issues associated with the Government's adjustment program. In addition,
substantial effort has been devoted to an analysis of social sector and
poverty issues in order to provide a stronger analytical and policy framework
for increased Bank and IDA assistance in this area. As part of this effort, a
number of major studies have been prepared, including recent reports on
population, employment, poverty, a series of studies on education, and women
in development. During the next few years, the Economic and Sector Work
Program for Pakistan will concentrate mainly on: i) macroeconomic analysis in
support of the adjustment program, including public expenditure issues; ii)
analysis aimed at increasing output and efficiency in the main productive
sectors; and iii) studies and analysis focusing on the development of human
resources and poverty alleviation. As part of this latter focus, we will
continue to provide support to the Government in the development and
implementation of its Social Action Program. The Bank is also acting as
executing agency for a UNDP financed Integrated Household Survey which will
provide important baseline data for further work on social and poverty related
issues.
The Lending Program: Level and Comoosition
52.         For the three year period FY92-94, planned IBRD/IDA assistance is
estimated in the US$2 billion range, including about one-third in IDA funding,
with about 6 operations annually. Continued assistance at this level,
however, would depend in part on the Government's ability to strengthen its
macro-economic and structural adjustment program, and carry through with its
Social Action Program and agreed plans to improve aid utilization.
53.         Future lending aims at supporting the Social Action Program,
mainly by providing increased support to the social sectors (including health,
nutrition, family planning, education and urban and rural services). In
addition, lending is planned to further support the Government's adjustment
effort, as well as develop the productive sectors and infrastructure,
especially energy. For the next several years, including the current FY,
about one-third of planned projects would support investment in the social
sectors, including basic services. Another third would focus on
infrastructure needs, including energy, with the remaining third helping to
finance investments in the productive sectors, the environment and continuing
to provide support for the country's adjustment program.



-16 -
Aid Coordination
54.   Pakistan has been the recipient of substantial external assistance,
receiving over US$32 billion in disbursed aid between 1950-91, with total
commitments during this period exceeding US$42 billion.   In addition to the
Bank Group, major donors have included the Asian Development Bank, Japan and
the United States, with important contributions from other bilateral and
multilateral sources.   As head of the Pakistan Consortium, the Bank has
played a major role in coordinating aid to Pakistan and in setting the
macroeconomic and sectoral framework for donor assistance. The Bank plans to
continue its leadership role in the future, with an increasing emphasis on
poverty reduction, including working with the Government and other donors to
support implementation of the Social Action Program.
Relations with the IMF
55.   Since the inception of the reform program in 1988, the IMF has
maintained an active policy dialogue with Pakistan. As of end-March 1992,
Pakistan's outstanding use of IMF resources amounted to SDR 731 million. The
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF), agreed in 1988, provided assistance in
three tranches totaling SDR 382.4 million, the last of which was released in
December 1991. The IMF also provided Pakistan with a standby arrangement in
1988 in an amount of SDR 273 million, of which SDR 194 million was utilized.
The agreement was allowed to lapse in November 1990. Pakistan has also had
access to the CCFF for SDR 122 million to compensate for the higher cost of
oil imports. The Bank staff cooperated closely with the IMF on macroeconomic
and structural reform issues and is continuing this collaboration in reviewing
progress under the PFP.
External Financing Reguirements
56.         Although Pakistan's current account deficit is expected to decline
in the coming years, assuming satisfactory implementation of the adjustment
program, Pakistan still requires substantial external financial support,
especially if its very ljw reserve position is to be strengthened. External
financing requirements are projected to average about US$3 billion per annum
in the next few years. Funds from official sources are expected to meet a
substantial proportion of the financing requirement. Pakistan's debt/GDP and
debt service ratios stood at 481 and 23X respectively in 1991 and are expected
to decline moderately as the adjustment program continues.
Summary Assessment
57.         Since the initiation of its adjustment program in 1988, and
especially during the past year and a half, Pakistan has made substantial
progress in opening up its economy, accelerating private investment, and
beginning to restructure the respective roles of the private and public
sectors, including initiating a major privatization effort. The country has
also maintained high levels of economic growth.    However, the success of
Pakistan's overall reform effort could be undermined by delays in establishing
a sustainable macro-economic framework, especially the couzcinuing difficulties
in reducing high fiscal and current account deficits.



- 17 -
58.         Progress has also been made in developing a stronger framework for
tackling severe problems in the provision of basic social services and in
addressing environmental issues.   The Government's Social Action Program
offers a good starting point for more intensive efforts to improve the
coverage and quality of basic social services, a key element in reducing
poverty.   Similarly, the Government's National Conservation Strategy
constitutes a basis for preparing and initiating an environmental action
program.   In both cases the Government recognizes the need to turn these
plans into reality, both in terms of designing workable projects and programs,
and in terms of providing the financial and human resources required.
Assuming a continuing strong Government commitment to tackle problems in these
two areas, substantial Bank and IDA support as well as assistance from other
donors will be needed and justified.
59.         In addition to external support for its Social and Environmental
Action Plans, Pakistan will require substantial other external financial
support and technical assistance in coming years to support implementation of
its development agenda.  This will include Bank and other donor support of
large investments in basic infrastructure, with the level and timing of
support linked in part to progress in developing sound sector investment
programs and financing plans and continued improvements in utilizing external
resources. Further Bank and IDA support for the Government's adjustment
program is also justified, but would be linked mainly to progress on
macroeconomic and public expenditure issues.
60.         Given the growing world wide competition for scarce foreign
resources, the level of available external assistance is unlikely to be as
high as in the past. This underscores the importance of increasing Pakistan's
domestic resource mobsilization effort, further improving the efficiency with
which resources are ustilized, and taking additional actions to improve the
environment for attra fting private foreign investment.
61.         Country progress in addressing major development and adjustment
challenges will be monitored in various ways. With respect to macroeconomic
performance, key criteria include fiscal, monetary, and balance of payments
indicators. Satisfactory implementation of the public investment program will
be assessed using criteria such as the share of development spending in GDP,
sectoral and subsectoral allocations, in particular for basic infrastructure
and the social sectors, as well as the viability of large new projects that
have macroeconomic or sectoral implications. We will also assess improvements
in project implementation, including the rate of disbursement of project aid.
Strengthening the role of the private sector will be monitored in terms of
progress in carrying out trade and financial sector reform and improving the
incentive regime as well as in terms of changes in the level of domestic and
foreign private sector investment, while progress in privatization will be
measured using the Government's targets for privatization.
62.         With respect to poverty reduction, changes in social indicators.
will take time to materialize; progress will be monitored in terms of
Government spending on health, education and family planning as well as
improvement in specific indicators such as enrollment ratios, especially of
females. Progress in health and education must also be monitored in respect



- 18 -
to quality of service, including policy and other changes to increase staff
effectiveness and spending on material and supplies. Progress in ueeting
environmental challenges will be measured in terms of developing an adequate
legal framework, particularly the establishment of environmental quality
standards; implementing environmental assessment procedures for new
investment; and over the medium term in respect to improvements in air and
water quality, the reduction in the area of water logged and saline soils and
a reduction in the rate of soil erosion as a measure of improvements in
watershed management.
II. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
63.         The proposed project addresses policy, institutional and technical
constraints facing the irrigation and drainage subsector that adversely affect
agricultural productivity in Pakistan.
64.          ackgroand.  Pakistan has a population of over 110 million,
growing at an annual rate of over 3%. More than 70% of the population lives
in rural areas. Agriculture is the largest sector of economy, providing 26%
of the GDP, employing about 50% of the labor force, and accounting for over
70% of total exports, including over 50% cotton based manufactures. Much of
the Indus plain is arid and irrigation is essential for agriculture. Over 90%
of total farm output comes from irrigated land, most of which is served by the
Indus Basin Irrigation System. Despite a rich land and water resource base,
agricultural productivity is well below the potential due to the following
policy and institutional issues, and technical constraints: (i) deterioration
of the irrigation infrastructure due to inadequate operation and maintenance
(O&M) and cost recovery policies --O&M budgets are less than required and
recoveries from water charges are far below expenditures; (ii) inappropriate
water pricing policies that do not encourage efficient use of water --water
charges are applied at a flat rate regardless of actual volume of water
supplied; (iii) lack of focus of water sector institutions on integration of
irrigation with agriculture, poor inter-agency coordination and non-
involvement of beneficiaries in decision making; (iv) degradation of soils due
to waterlogging and salinity caused by inappropriate water allocation policies
and low water use efficiency; and (v) inadequate, inequitable and unreliable
delivery of water which does not take into account the changing water
requirements during the crop season.
65.         The allocation of 06M funding and cost recovery issues are part of
continuous dialogue with GOP. In this regard, discussions with the government
have already begun with the objective of introducing an annual review process
in which the Bank and the government would reach agreements on the annual 0&K
allocations and adopt a transparent plan to achieve full cost recovery. These
issues are being addressed under the Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1888-PAK). The proposed project in addition to OM and cost
recovery issues would also address the policy and technical questions by
introducing cost effective approaches to control waterlogging and salinity,
improving water supplies and integrating irrigation and agriculture.



- 19 -
66.         Irrigation and Drainage Subsector Strategy.  Government strategy
is largely based on the recommendations of the Revised Action Programme for
Irrigated Agriculture and the Water Sector Investment Planning Study l. Its
key elements are: (i) increasing agricultural productivity by controlling
waterlogging and salinity; (ii) rehabilitating the irrigation infrastructure
and improving on-farm water management; (iii) privatizing Government-owned
tubewells in the Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs) in fresh
groundwater (FGW) areas, and leaving future development of groundwater in FGW
areas to the private sector; and (iv) preparing a prioritized investment
program.
67.         The Indus Water Accord. Ranking Study and Future Strategy.  In
March 1991, a milestone agreement was reached on the allocation of Indus
waters among the provinces and a major constraint to efficient utilizatiot. of
water was thus removed. To ensure optimal utilization of agreed water
allocations, a "Ranking Study" has been undertaken to prioritize projects that
have now become possible as a result of the Indus water accord. Following the
Indus water accord, it is now recognized that further improvements in
productivity would require a shift in strategy to place increasing emphasis
on: (i) cost effective approaches to control waterlogging and salinity; (ii)
improving the equity of water distribution and better matching irrigation
supplies with crop requirements; (iii) improving operation and maintenance of
the irrigation system by enhancing involvement of farmers in decision making
and operation and maintenance; and (iv) improving coordination among
institutions responsible for irrigation and agriculture.
68.         Institutions.  At the federal level, the Ministries of Food and
Agriculture, Water and Power, and Planning and Development formulate strategy
for the agriculture and water sectors. At the Provincial level, the
Departments of Punjab Planning and Development, Irrigation (PID), and
Agriculture (PAD) are responsible for policy making; the latter two
departments are also responsible for implementation of projects. The Water
and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) is responsible for preparing and
implementing SCARPs. Improvement of watercourses is the responsibility of the
PAD. While the PID and PAD have considerable experience in implementing
infrastructure-oriented projects, they have limited exposure to inter-
disciplinary approaches for implementing irrigated agricultural projects.
69.         Proiect Objectives.  The proposed project is among the high
priority projects that aim to increase productivity of waterlogged lands
through water conservation and anti-seepage measures. Specifically,. the
project would increase agricultural productivity by: (i) controlling
waterlogging and salinity through cost-effective methods; (ii) improving the
equity of water distribution; (iii) developing models for integrated
irrigation and agricultural development involving a "demand" based system
largely operated and maintained by farmers; (iv) improving the capabilities of
the implementing agencies for preparing, implementing, operating and
Both studies were funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank; the first was
completed in 1979 and the second in 1990.



- 20 -
maintaining irrigated agricultural projects; and (v) formulating subsector
investment program.
70.         Project Descrintion.  The proposed project is located about 300 km
south of Lahore in the south-eastern corner of Punjab province, covering a
gross area of about 121,000 ha. The project area is identified by GOP as a
"disaster area". About 50% of the project area has a saline groundwater
within 1.8 m of the surface and it is projected that unless anti-waterlogging
measures are implemented, by the year 2000 almost the entire area would be
affected by waterlogging and salinity. The project would have the following
components: (a) water conservation measures (interceptor drains, canal lining,
watercourse improvement); (b) construction of surface drains; (c) field trials
for subsurface drainage and monitoring of land and water conditions; (d)
irrigation and drainage research; (e) technical assistance, and staff
training; (f) monitoring and evaluation of the project's impact; and (g)
preparation of future high priority projects.
71.         The project has an estimated total cost of US$70.65 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$17.22 million. The
proposed IDA credit of SDR 39.6 million (US$54.20 million equivalent) would
finance 77X of the project cost; the government would finance the remaining
23X. Schedule A shows a breakdown of project costs and the financing plan,
while Schedule B shows amounts and methods of procurement and disbursements
and the disbursement schedule. Schedules C and D respectively give a
timetable of key project processing events, and the status of Bank Group
operations in Pakistan. The attached maps show the location of the project
area and project features.  The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 10461-PAK, is
being circulated separately.
72.         Project Implementatio.  The project would be implemented by
WAPDA, and the Punjab Irrigation and Agriculture Departments in collaboration
with farmers. WAPDA would be responsible for installing interceptor drains,
monitoring and evaluation, research, future project preparation and overall
coordination of project activities, the Punjab Irrigation Department for canal
lining and the Agriculture Department for watercourse improvement, research on
integrated irrigation and agricultural management and research related
agricultural extension activities.
73.         Lessons Learned from Bank-Group Assisted Projects.  In the
irrigation and drainage sector, Bank-Group assisted projects have experienced
implementation delays due to: (i) slow GOP approval process; (ii) inadequate
procurement procedures; (iii) delay in preparation of detailed designs; and
(iv) construction delays due to the weak construction industry in Pakistan.
In addition, there has been a tendency to focus mainly on structural
improvements and civil works at the expense of "software aspects', e.g.,
institution building, agricultural support, farmer organization strengthening,
and water management. Finally, budgetary allocations for operation and
maintenance have been inadequate, particularly during the last three years;
and no significant water charge increases have been made, and collections have
stagnated at a level substantially below requirements.



- 21 -
74.         The proposed project incorporates successful features, and lessons
learned, from earlier projects in the sector to address the above problems.
The main features include: (i) preparation of the project PC-1 (GOP's
appraisal document) in tandem with the staff appraisal report; (ii) agreement
on prequalification procedures and use of the Bank's sample bidding documents
during appraisal and negotiations; (iii) provision of technical assistance for
preparation of detailed designs; and (iv) agreement to: (a) procure civil
works through international competitive bidding; (b) enforce strict
prequalification and selection criteria; and (c) verify prospective bidders'
credentials to ensure selection of qualified contractors. The project also
emphasizes farmer participation and an interdisciplinary approach to project
implementation. Regarding operation and maintenance funding and cost
recovery, there have been two positive developments. First, in January 1992,
GOPunjab enhanced the OEM budget by a significant amount; and second, a
program for desilting canals in Punjab was undertaken with voluntary labor
contributed by farmers. These two measures have reduced the gap between the
total allocation and agreed O&M funding target. Furthermore, a yearly
discussion process between Punjab and IDA to determine and ensure adequate
levels of O&M budgetary allocations for the following fiscal year has been
agreed. As stated in section on agreed actions, Punjab would adopt a recovery
plan to achieve full cost recovery by July 1, 1998.
75.         Other Donors' Involvement in the Sector.  Other don,rs involved in
the water sector include the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Canadian
International Development Agency, Germany, Japan, Netherlands, Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund, Saudi Fund, Switzerland, United Kingdom
and United States Agency for International Development. Several of these
donors are involved in various projects cofinanced by the Bank Group le.g, the
Left Bank Outfall Drain (Cr. 1532-PAK)]. ADB has the largest ongoing program,
including projects in the drainage, flood sector, small dams, and water
management. ADB is also involved in policy-based lending complementing Bank
Group strategy.
76.         Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The project would bring together
major technical and policy recommendations of the Revised Action Programme and
Water Sector Investment Planning Study which IDA executed. It is the first
effort by GOP to improve agricultural productivity by controlling waterlogging
and salinity through cost effective water conservation measures. This
approach to control waterlogging has been developed after considerable
technical discussions with the implementing agencies that took into account
experience elsewhere in the world. Following the recent agreement on the
apportionment of Indus waters among the Provinces, the project provides the
first opportunity to introduce an integrated approach to the development of
irrigated agriculture in Pakistan. The research component of the project
would provide answers to several questions critical for the future development
of the Indus Basin irrigation system. It would also help develop models for a
"demand based" irrigation system with close participation of beneficiaries in
operation and maintenance. Through its policy dialogue with GOP and technical
deliberations with the implementing agencies, IDA is well placed to assist in
addressing policy, institutional and technical issues relating to irrigated
agriculture and the development of a "demand based" irrigation system.



- 22 -
77.         Proiect Sustainability.  The project design incorporates features
aimed at sustaining the objectives of the project. Firstly, it would ensure
adequate operation and maintenance of the facilities by: (i) requiring
adequate budgetary allocations for operation and maintenance coupled with full
cost recovery from beneficiaries; and (ii) enhancing farmer participation in
operation and maintenance of the system. This would not only relieve the
fiscal burden of the Government but also create a sense of "ownership" of the
facilities among the beneficiaries. Secondly, the project would result in
relatively low operation and maintenance costs. Finally, after project
completion, the farmer institutions created and strengthened under the project
would help to ensure that the facilities continue to yield the benefits for
which they were designed.
78.         Agreed Actions. At negotiations, agreements were reached on the
following: (a) specifications, and quality control measures used for various
project components would be acceptable to IDA; (b) operation of channels would
be modified to meet crop water requirements as closely as possible; (c)
improvement of watercourses in the project area would be completed by June 30,
1995; (d) timely completion of on-going surface drainage contracts would be
ensured; (e) draft proposals for formalizing farmer organizations, and
conceptual design of a demand based irrigation system would be submitted to
IDA by September 30, 1993; (f) consultants would be recruited, following Bank
guidelines; (g) annual work programs would be submitted to IDA by March 31
every year; (h) an overall monitoring and evaluation program would be
submitted to IDA by December 31, 1992; (i) required level of O&M for the
surface irrigation, fresh groundwater tubewells and drainage facilities in
Punjab would be discussed with IDA every year and adequate budgetary
allocations would be made in the following fiscal year; (j) Punjab shall,
through water and/or drainage charges by July 1, 1993 achieve a recovery level
of 351 of the annual O&K costs of its surface irrigation and, fresh
groundwater tubewell and drainage facilities, 45X by July 1, 1994, 55X by July
1. 1995, 70X by July 1, 1996, 901 by July 1, 1997 and full recovery by July 1,
1998 and thereafter; and (k) mid-term review in the third project year but not
later than March 31, 1995.  It was also agreed that prior to the Credit
Effectiveness: (i) WAPDA, PID and PAD would complete the evaluation of
proposals for consulting services and furnish the evaluation reports to IDA;
(ii) project PC-1 would be approved by Executive Council of the National
Economic Committee (ECNEC); and (iii) Project Directors would be appointed by
WAPDA and PID along with associated staff.
79.         Environmental AsRects.  The proposed project has been placed in
environmental screening category B; it will not require preparation of an
environmental assessment. Typical of most water management projects, the
project would have an overall positive impact on the environment. It builds
on existing infrastructure and improves systems operation. Hence, it would
not create adverse environmental effects associated with new development, such
as resettlement, depletion of land and water resources, and loss of wildlife
habitat. Drainage of several small temporary ponds scattered throughout the
area, and improved water management would reduce deep percolation to the
groundwater and offset, or delay, problems of waterlogging and related soil
salinity. Water management would also reduce the incidence of mosquito-borne
diseases by draining stagnant waters.



- 23 -
80.         Benefits.  Project benefits would include: (i) increase in
agricultural production; (ii) reduction in the area requiring subsurface
drainage; (iii) improvement in surface drainage of the area; (iv) improvement
in the capabilities of implementing agencies; (v) strengthening of farmer
institutions and their role in operation and maintenance; (vi) enhancement of
knowledge on the impact of waterlogging and salinity on crops, and on the
benefits of different types of canal lining; and (viii) development of a pilot
demand based irrigation system. The economic rate of return of the project is
estimated to be 22%.
81.         Project RLis.  The Punjab Irrigation Department has little past
experience of lining canals with geo-membrane. This factor, combined with the
inherent weaknesses of Pakistan's construction industry could result in
construction delays.  To minimize this risk and to ensure the quality of
construction, contracts for lining would be awarded following international
competit4ve bidding procedures and technical assistance would be provided to
ensure proper specifications and construction supervision. Similarly, there
is no past experience in Punjab in intercepting seepage from canals with
interceptor drains. In view of this, a gradual approach to the installation
of interceptor drains would be adopted, whereby drains would be installed
along the smaller channels based on the monitoring results from larger
channels. Finally, implementation delays could occur due to shortage of local
funding. The Government is minimizing this risk by preparing three year
rolling plans to assess future funding requirements of ongoing as well as new
projects. The current assessment is that adequate funding would be available
for the project, as several on-going projects in Punjab are nearing
completion.
82.         Qther Risks.  The Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan has recently
given a ruling that the Shariah does not permit the payment or award of
interest and thus, has instructed the Government to modify a number of
existing laws that currently provide for payment of interest. The Government
has filed an appeal with the Supreme Court against the Shariat Court ruling,
which has been stayed pending the outcome of the appeal.  As far as Pakistan's
obligations under loan and credit agreements with Bank/IDA are concerned,
these would be valid and enforceable under international law, in accordance
with the terms of those agreements and the general conditions of Bank/IDA,
notwithstanding any local law or judicial decision regarding the payment of
interest and other -harges, including any such ruling.
83.         Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 11, 1992



-24
SCHEDULE A
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTA
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATIQOJ AN DRAINAGE PROJECT
Estimated Cost and Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Estimated Project Cost:
Local      Foreign        Total
Interceptor Drains            15.83       6.15          21.98
Canal Lining                  13.92       4.60          18.52
On Farm Water Management       0.70    v 0.10            0.80
Surface Drains                 5.87       1.18           7.05
Phase 2 & Monitoring           2.31       0.94           3.25
Irrig./Drainage Research       4.07       0.58           4.66
Monitoring & Evaluation        0.31       0.00           0.31
Technical Assist. & Trng.      0.55       0.23           0.78
Future Proj. Preparation       0.57       0.43           1.00
Total Base Cost               44.13      14.21          58.34
Physical Contingencies      3.03       1.01           4.04
Price Contingencies         6.27       2.00           8.27
Total Project Cost            53.44      17.22          70.65 /a
Financin1 Plan:
Local      Foreign        Total
Government                    16.4         --           16.4
IDA                           37.0       17.2           54.2
Total                         53.4       17.2           70.6
/a    Includes US$ 7.6 million taxes and duties.



-25 -
SCHEDULE B
PAKISTAN                         Page 1 of 2
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH)
IRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million) /a
Procurement Method      Total Cogt
LC             ,Other
CIVIL WORKS
Interceptor Drains                23.90                       23.90
(17.93)                     (17.93)
Canal lining                      20.61                       20.61
(15.46)                     (15.46)
Surface drains                     6.29    1.50/c              7.79
(4.72)  (1.12)              (5.84)
Monitoring and Phase 2
Preparation                     2.30              0.50/b    2.80
(1.73)           (0.37)    (2.10)
Irrigation & Drainage Research             0.34/c              0.34
0.25)              (0.25)
Sub-total                           53.10    1.84      0.50      55.44
(39.84)  (1.37)   (0.37)   (41.58)
Consulting Services                  6.12                         6.12
(4.90)                      (4.90)
Administration & Operating                             7.80/d    7.80
Expenditure                         (7.02)    (7.02)
Equipment                                     0.62/e             0.62
(0.37)             (0.37)
Vehicles                             0.67                         0.67
(0.33)                      (0.33)
Total                               59.89    2.46      8.30      70.65
(45.07)  (1.74)   (7.39)   (54.20)
a/ Includes taxes, duties and contingencies. Figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts financed by IDA.
/b WAPDA force account for monitoring components.
/c Scattered sites, ICB not appropriate.
/d Incremental staff salaries, and operating expenditure.
/e Consists of relatively small and non-homogenous packages unsuitable for ICB



- 26 -
SCHEDULE B
PAKISTAN                        Page 2 of 2
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Percent of Expenditure
Category                             Amount            to be Financed
l. Civil Works                                         751 of expenditure
Interceptor Drains     WAPDA       13.98
Surface Drains                      5.20
Monitoring & Phase 2 Prep.           1.87
21.05
Canal lining           PID          10.78
Irrigation & Drainage  PAD          0.21
research
Sub-total                                32.04
2. Consulting Services                                 80X of expenditure
WAPDA        3.41
PID          0.82
PAD          0.08
Sub-total                                  4.31
3. Incremental Staff Salaries,                         90X of expenditure.
Operating Expenditure                               1001 of expenditure for
and Training                                        training
WAPDA        4.39
PID          0.69
PAD          1.10
Sub-total                                 6.18
4. Equinment and Vehicles                              1001 of foreign
expenditures, 100l
WAPDA        0.41           of local expenditures
PID          0.13           (ex-factory costs) and
PAD          0.17           601 of local expenditure
Sub-total                                  0.71     for other items procured
locally
6. Unallocated
WAPDA                        5.89
PID                          4.89
PAD                          0.18
Sub-total                                 10.96
Total                                    54.20
Estimated Disbursements:            IDA Fiscal Year
93      94      95      96      97     98      99
Annual         1.5     5.7     9.4    10.5    10.6   10.9    5.6
Cumulative     1.5     7.2    16.6    27.1    37.7   48.6   54.2



- 27 -
SCHEDULE C
PAKISTAN                        Page 1 of 1
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAlpAGE PROJECT
Tlmetable of Keg Events
(a)   Time to Prepare:        Two years
(b)   Prepared by:            GOP/WAPDA in collaboration with Bank Group, with
funding provided under SCARP^VI (Cr. 754-PAK).
(c)   First IDA Mission:      April 1989
(d)   Appraisal Mission
Departure:              June, 25 1991
(e)   Negotiations:           May 21-23, 1992
(f)   Planned Date of
Effectiveness:          September 30, 1992
(g)   List of relevant
PCRs and PPARs:         On-Farm Water Management Project, Cr. 1163-PAK
(PCR No 7309, June 24, 1988). Khairpur-II
Project, Cr. 648-PAK (PCR No 7806 June 2, 1989).
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project-I, Cr.
1239-PAK (PCR No 8794, June 25, 1990).



- 28 -
Schedule 0
Page 1of 3
THE SrATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKiSTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 192)
Amount (IS millOon)
Piscal                                                                 lose sanellaion)
Loan No     Year   Borrower              Purpose                             Bank     IDA      Undisbured
64 Loans and 63 adits hve been Illy disbursed                     .21888.   16a2s
Cr. 0764-PA    1978 Repubilc of Pakistan  Salinity Control and Reclmaion               70.00         12.43
Cr. 087-PA    1079 Republic of PaWdstan  Salinity Control and Red. (Mardan)            60.00          2.50
Cr. 1243-PA    16U  Repubic of Pakitn    Balachisn Minor 1rig. &Agr.                   14.00          4.3
Cr. 1348PA    1983 Republic of Pakitan   Lahore Urban Devwopment                       16.00          s.37
Cr. 1374-PA    1983 Republic of Pakditan  Karachi Water supply                         25.00          0.87
Cr. 1375-PA    1#83 Republic of Pasin    Fourth Drainage                               374           14.87
Cr. 1481-PA    1884 Republlo of Paldatan    integrated Hill Farming Dev.               16.82         3.
Cr. 1487-PA    1984 Republic of Paldetan  Command Water Management                     46.50         15.75
Cr. 149-PA    1984 Republic of Pakistan  Seond Small IndusMies                         50.00          4.08
Cr. 1532-PA    18U  Republic of Paldatan  Left Bank Outfll Drain - Stae 1             150.00        14634
Cr. 1533-PA    1986 Republic of Pakistan  Baicohistan Agricultural Etension             8.90         2.67
Ln. 2498-PA    1885 Republic of Paletian  Fourth WAPDA Power                 100.00                  7.49
Cr. 1602A    1986 Republic of Pakietan  Second Primary Eduoston                        62.60        35.87
Ln. 256PA    1985 Republlo otfPaldtan   Fifth WAPDA Power                    100.00                 11.18
Ln. 248-PA     08U  Repubio of Pakstan    Industrai Investmnt Credit         148.00                  0.84
Cr. 1646-PA    1686 Republic of Paistan    industia IinvatmentCredst                    2.00         0.96
Cr. 1662-PA    1S88 Republic of Pakistan  Karchi Special ODeveopnt                     70.00        87.74
Cr. 1670-PA    1986 Republ of Pakian    Second Vocational Training                     40.20        28.47
Cr. 1893-PA    1986 Repubilc of Paidetan  SCARP Traneition Pilot                       10.00         8.20
Cr. 1666-PA    1686 Repubtic of Pakistan  Agric. Dev. Bank of Pakistan VI              66.00         3.14
Ln. 2068-PA    1686 Republic of Pakistan  Kot Addu Combined Cpye              S0.00                  7.60
Ln. 2743-PA    1987 Republic of Paistan  TelecommunicationeV                 100.00                  7.22
Cr. 1756-PA    1687 Republic of PaWstan  Third Tchnicai A_stane                         7.00         637
Cr. 1762-PA    1987 Republio of Pakidstan  Agtic. Extension [V                         42.10        27.18
Cr. 1821-PA    1687 Repubio of Paldsan  Third Primary Education                       145.00        11524
Ln. 2762-PA    1687 Repubic of Pakdltan  Power Plant Effency                  70.00                 35.88
Ln. 2814-PA    1687 Repubio of Palstan  Fourth Highwes                       12.00                  84.98
Ln. 2536-PA    1687 Republio of Pakstan    Industdies III                     64.00                 43.62
Ln. 2842-PA    1687 Repubic of Padatan  Reflnery Enegy Consewin               21.00                 17.76
La. 2884-PA    1688 Republic of Pakstan  Cemnat Industry ModernIzaton         98.00                 32.3
Cr. 188-PA    1688 Republic of Pakisn   Scond irgation Systems Rehab                   70.0         65.71
Cr. 1809PA    1688 Republic of Pakistan  Puniab Urban Development                      60.00        04.67
Cr. 1936-PA    1688 Repubflc of Pakisan  National Ollssed Oevelopment                  20.00         161
Ln. 2713-PA   1t88 Republc of Pakian    National OUsed Dvelopment             31.40                 31.40
Ln.2882-PA    1688 Repubc of PakIstn       e  SectorEnergy Delopment         10.0                  140.77
Cr. 1882-PA    1680 Republc of Paklstan    Industrial lnvestment Credit IN              2.00         0.6
Ln. 3016-PA    1689 Republi of Pastan    indudstial   stmentCredit UI        148.00                 76.68
Cr. 1687-PA    1986 Repubic of Pakistan  Karachi Water Supply                         126.00        10804
Ln. 3107-PA    168  Republic of Padan   Energy Sector Loan II                250.00                 63.13
Cr. 2003-PA    1860 Repubic of Pakan    Flood Restoraion                               40.00         6.02
Cr. 2004-PA    1066 RepubicoftPadtan       vate Tubew                                  34.40         10.68
Ln. 3147-PA    160 Republic of Pakistn  Power Transmi-sion & Extension       16L00                  142.30



- 29 -
ScheduleD
Page 2 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of M4roh 31. 1892)
Amount (USS mlon)
Fiscal" (~00*celi*ti0ii)
Loan No     Year   Borrower               Purpose                            Bank    IDA          Undisbursed
Cr. 207-PA    1990 Republic ot Pakisan    Rural ElecIficatio                              37.00         S 74
Ln. 3148-PA    1890 Republic of Pakidtan  Rural Eerlflcaton                    123.00                 1t300
Cr. 2102-PA    1990 Republic of Paidatn   Sindh Pmary Educaton                           112S0         109.2
Cr. 215-PA    1990 Republic of Paldetan   Agriculture Credit                               1.50         1.44
Ln. 3228-PA    1990 Republ of Paidetan   Agrioulture Credit                   148.50                 122.7
Cr. 2154-PA    1990 Republic of Pakistan  Agriculture Resech                              57.30          9.33
in. 2884-1-P   IO  RFepubi of Pakidtan    C em   Suppl.                         50.40                  94.00
' in 3107-1-P   1990 Republic of Paldaan    Energy SectorLoaln  Suppl.            28.00                   28.00
* Ln. 3241-PA    190 Repubic of Paidstan    Transpot Secor Ivesunent             1t.00                   154.75
L. 3252-PA    1991 Republic of Pakistan   Corp. Rstruchting                    130.00                 115.36
Ln. 3252-1-P   1991 Republic of PePtsZan  Corp. Restructuw  Suppl.              80.00                   0.00
Cr. 2229-PA    1991 Republic f Pa  Oan    Rurl Water Supply & Sanitetn                   1370          131.64
in. 3818-Pa    1991 Republic of Pakistan  Mlcroenterprls                        26.00                  20.00
Ct. 2240-PA    1991 Republ of Pakistan    Famiy Health                                    45.00        43.42
Cr. 2245-PA    1991 Republic of Pakistan  Third On-Farm Management                        47.30        46.61
Ln. 33-PA    1991 Republic of Pskitan     Third On-Farm Management             38.30                   36.30
Cr. 227-PA    1001 Republic of Pakistan   Sscond SCARP Transiti                           20.00        20.21
Li. 3336-PA    1991 Republi of Pakistan   Karachi Port Mdemizaton               91.40                  91.40
Cr. 2364-PA    1992 Republic of Palstan   Middle Schooling                               115.00        116.00
Total                                                     4444.69  3469.69 la   2830.12
otwhich has been repaid                                    852.40   157.84
Total now outsanding                                      39229  9331.85
Amount so4d                                                 33.09
otwhich has been repaid                                     32.24
Total undisbursed                                                                283.12
Is  IDACeditsbeginningwiththe thReplenishmentar denominatedInSOR and areshown
in US$ equivants at the lime of negotiations. Dsbursed amountsae computed at the
nvchane rate applicable at the date ofthis statement
indcats SASECAL Loans and Credits



- 30 -
8schedube 0
Page 3 df3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKaSTAN
B. STATUJENTOF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Match 31. 100
Amount ($"nilons)
oats         Borwer                 Purpose                          Loan    Equity       Total
1082        ACIL                    Cement & Constucton Materl        4.02     0.51       4.53
1060         Adamie. indudrles Ltd.   Tex0ies                         0.76                0.75
187/        Ango-iSubs              Chemicals& P bomleals                     0.80       0.80
1079        Attoek Refinery Ltd.    Chemicals & P81rochemloaa        15.00     0.8       15.80
1065        Crscnt Jute             Texilles        *                 1.96     0.11       L00
1016880      Dawood                 Fettfl                           18.30     2.02      21.22
1801         EiM,The Fund           Capit Markets                              1.13        1.13
191          EhgtroChemicals        Chemicals & Ptroohem s           41.05     8.50      4945
10n          FautI Foundation       Poiyptopyiene Ra                  1.78                 1.78
1088         Foot Cemen             Cement & Constucton  atrial      18.58                18.58
10           FU                     Capital Maret                              0.68       0.e8
19616        GhaAbwa Cement Ltd.   Cement                             6.26     0.42        5.67
1081         Habib Arkady Ltd.      Food & Food Procsslng             3.15     0.10       3.31
106          Ha Spinning            Spinning Plant                    3.28     0.06        392
1s80         Hosing Fbance Corp.   Captal Markets                     5.00     0.57       5.7
1980/02      Mad Gas Company Ltd.   Chemloals & Petrochiemcals       08.3                 08.53
1079         MlMpak Ltd.            Food Proc ng                      2.40     0.40       2.40
88           Mllt                   Tractors                          4.90                4.90
1"5          NOLC                   Money& CapitW Maket               5.49     0.37        .88
10o         Pak. Suzuki            Automotve                        17.08                17A8
168/V        Package Umited         Paper Products                   26.00     1.24      27.24
8718/019
183e4478    PICIC                   DFC                                        3.63       3.03
l1oc         PILCO                  Capit Makets                      5.00                 5.00
1072         POL                    Chemicals & Poemicals            14.00     1.19      15.10
1987         PPC                    Paper      %                       .38     2.02       7.40
IOWIS        PPL                    Cbemicab &Petrohmlcs            104.60     1.56     100.00
1080         Prmer Doard            Partice Board                     2.70                2.70
1001         Prudntal               Capital Makets                             0.40       0.40
1990         RupGli Poltr           Textles                          22.38     2.00      24.38
108          ShamsTextlles         Tsxties& Fibres                    2.79                2.76
1058        Ste Corp. of Paldean    Iron&Ste                          0.63                0.63
1i98         Sural Cotton           Texils & Fibres                   2.70                2.70
Tot Gross Commitmnts                                   401.20    30.13     437.33
Less Cancelations. Termination Exchanges
Adjustments, Prepayment. and Sales
Wdrtofs and Sales                                    291.06    14.58      300.21
Total Commltments now held by IFC                      109.56    21J7       131.12
Total Undlurd (Jiudlng participants' pardwon)                               36.64
-U



PAKISTAN                                                    | _.
j \                                          FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH) PHASE I
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT                                                                     )
PROJECT LOCATION                                                                     f
ISLAMIC       REP.                                                                                            .   d R
i   \                     =3PnNectAno                "~~~~~~~~~ Doomand Reservoirs   a  CDtout lHreadcsoortnrs                             2
Link Canal ,              Borroges/Heodeorks and Reservoi    (3 Provion sidqsrtnr
/          \                                       Irrigaton Cnols     -    Flood Enho-knentn         *  Notional Capitol
O F   IRAN                   W            *                                     Drains                    Ri-rs                   --Pronce  Bounndaries(                                 TAJIKISTAN
OF    IRAN              -.                                                                Dr_.y Inkos             .-. latnrnotisnal andarins
-   /                             \AFGHANIStA AFGHANISTAN                                                                                   /   *Chital             N
*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                                             0---J/-'hiao_Xs ,r  X                              N x  H." 
<at                                                  l~~~~~                                     MinnsSkoh              m0%eer~hId  V.~-                        AGENCY
, - </.r ^ Kh o  r       cn QUJETTA!N                                     NU.  i  MirShch*    PES  WOAR/EC/
_ou        TWNo K*  O  M_d-                             G ji*o
Tvrbot.                                                                                                             NORTHWEST           F RONTIrER        PRO VINCi          r         
- ~ ~"   <                    scaN@ Sisbtl Zbz ; L.roloits            UsnIs  7                 {    4          KHAt, Ns(ottqbcd /s/NIu-%C<^*Ibi
B    A   I   U   C    /      S   r  A   N                 P   R  0   V       I N   C   E                                            ISLAMAAD_1--L/
*~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ <                                                                                          orool       IS''LAAIABA / ~{DAM  -/    .z.           kJ>
-                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D   -lK..-                            RnLsY/ vAa
P   - IV. .S 4 U N J _ A   B   DAM  j     PunchLA
/      ->4               reoetb                    C,   .        /        P_       NJA        8       ccc    aMrpOr  "  SRINAGAR
fi<, -  r   /     >- Ahimyor%.                    ~                 ShrC"k%orgsd-a*        
E                    -->-h5t               } { 'I Noebshoh  /               1 _~ Kkr -s                                     jsnngpu    -   s,/tkq   5*5*50 J<   USAL          \
Thdw~~~~~~~~~~~  s..ge  -~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~l%.Mi6
nSetSSrld Ben's   neslmarotp                                               .                                  -~~~~~~~Dq  P   Soiio                               v  sV'a
adboaknsn(nro           3KARACHI p   R                    O       iX;iN, C  S,- - h'~                                                       _'1z 
w1esesteniftet*5tl4i more   -/                       (. a,,ed                                                                      +       F                      _GD
"V   t"'      7     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"A
.-        r            r          Co4                            Ii           $ N  D  I    A                                            J2ID0 H
SOP .OF   ,     ,j '' E<                                                                                                                                                                                 / P  P  0  (
-'  )     SoAs                                                     j                                                        /                                    DP
A b     '                                                                                           non                                      e   a1  .,  ,N>92;i                                MtIP
1OsrArfr                                                                                                      555                                    1 CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  A
A,rlv,u V.                                                                                                                                      /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N  D  I    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI19



[ORD 23407
WL&MHIADWoWa                   ~~~~~~PAK ISTA N
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH) PHASE I
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
PROJECT AREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRJC AE OUDR
A /D, \A,                       *eoJEclAeeA                    ,,. r                         4,C     ,_
shk'"   1--.   R OD I; -TA1IO/
-el  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CWMPRa7AE BOUNDARY
r   t__= A_t_;;_    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAL,D //UARE,AN NR
t    /          \              ;8r,J dlo *i R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTE NDTIN
, /                                       /R ILROAD ,                            ST
s                         <_                                                            , aaaamC
l   ,                          .                  ..     ,    , K                                      N A
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmo



