Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  10461-PAK Type:  (SAR)
AHMAD, M. / X82126 / E9 018/ 'A3AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
JUNE 11, 1992
South Asia Region
Country Department III
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1 - Rs 25.5
Rs 1 - US$0.0392
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Enelish/US Units                      Metric Units
1 inch (in)                      -    25.4 millimeters (mm)
1 foot (ft)                      -    30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                      -    0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                      -    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                      -    0.405 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)            -    259 ha
1 pound (lb)                     -    0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg t)                -    1.016 metric tons (t)
1 cubic foot/second (cfs)        -    0.0283 cubic meters/sec (m3/sec)
I acre foot (ac/ft)              -    1,233.5 cubic meters (m3)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -    Asian Development Bank
ADP         -    Annual Development Program
cca         -     Canal Command Area
CIR         -    Country Implementation Review
OWN?        -     Command Water Management Project
EC          -    Electric Conductivity (of water or other solutions)
ECNEC       -    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FGW         -    Fresh Groundwater
GOP         -    Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab    -    Government of Punjab Province
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
rWASRI      -     International Waterlogging and Salinity Research Instltute
LCB         -    Local Competitive Bidding
NAF         -    Million Acre Feet
MinW&P      -    Ministry of Water and Power
M&E         -    Monitoring and Evaluation
mmhos/cm    -    Millimhos per Centimeter (unit of electric conductivity)
NRAP        -    Netherlands Research Assistance Project
NDB         -    Non-Development Budget
OFWM        -    On-Farm Water Management
O&M         -    Operation and Maintenance
PID         -     Punjab Irrigation Department
ppm         -    Parts per Million
P&I         -     Planning and Investigation Organization, WAPDA
RAP         -    Revised Action Programme for Irrigated Agriculture
RSC         -    Residual Sodium Carbonate
SAR         -    Sodium Absorption Ratio
SCARP       -     Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW         -     Saline Groundwater
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
TA          -    Technical Assistance
TDS         -    Total Dissolved Solids
TW          -    Tubevell
UNDP        -    United Nations Development Program
WAPDA       -    Water and Power Development Authority
WMED        -    Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate, WAPDA
WUA         -    Water Users Associatior;
W/C         -    Watercourse
GLOSSARY
chak              -    tertiary irrigation command
kharif            -    wet season (mid-April to mid-October)
mogha             -    uncontrolled outlet from parent supply channel to chak
rabi              -    dry season (mid-October to mid-April)
sarkari khal      -    communal portion of watercourse
toba              -    natural depression
varabundi         -    weekly rotational schedule of irrigation deliveries to
farmers
watercourse       -     irrigation distribution system within a chak
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank author4ation |



PAKISTAN
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND PRAINGE POJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .................                i-iii
I.     BACKGROUND          .............................             1
Introdue~tion        .............................            1
Demographic and Physical Features ...............             1
Agriculture and Its Performance ........................      2
Irrigated Agriculture and Water Management        . .         2
- Indus Irrigation System.                                    2
-  Irrigation Outside the Indus System  .     ................   2
- On-Farm Water Management        .        .                  3
Drainage Systems...   3
- Groundwater Situation and Significance.                     3
- Surface Drains ..                                           3
- Subsurface Drainage                  ..4
Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance Strategy          4
Lessons Learned from IDA Assisted Projects.        .          6
Issues..                                                      7
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ...................  10
II.     THE PRCJECT AREA .....................................    11
Climate .....................................   11
Physical Features ......................................   11
- Soils and Land Forms .11
-  Irrigation System and Water Supply          ...           11
- Drainage .12
Waterlogging and Salinity .13
Farm Size -nd Tenure .13
Cropping Intensities and Yields .14
Agricultural Inputs and Services .14
- Inputs .14
- Agricultural Support Services .15
Marketing .15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Pakistan in June/July 1991.  Mission members included Messrs. P. Streng, J.
Mohamadi, W. Ochs, U. Qamar (IDA), B. Bishay, C.P. Cheng and M. Haider
(consultants). A follow-up mission, comprising Messrs. J. Nohamadi and N. Ahmad
visited Pakistan in October 1991. A second follow-up mission, comprising Messrs.
N. Ahmad, Nadim Khouri and U. Qamar visited Pakistan in February 1992. The
report was prepared by Messrs. M. Ahmad, U. Qamar and P. Streng. Peer reviewers
and lead advisers were Messrs. G. Fauss, L. Noscoso and H. Plusquellec. Mr. Paul
rsenman is the Country Director and Nr. Ridvan AlI the Agricultural Operations
Division Chief of Country Department III, South Asia Region.



III.      TI  PRLOJECT,   .......................................   16
Project Concept and Objectives          .........................   16
Project DescrLption .                                              17
A Interceptor Drains .                  .                          17
B Lining of Distrbutaries and  rs                  Minors   17
C Watercourse Improvemant    ...18
D Surf; *e Drainage System. .                                      18
Surface Drains  .. .. ...                                   18
• Drainage Effluent Disposal. .                                19
E  Field Trials and Monitoring for Phase 2 ........ .....   19
F  Irrigation and Drainage Research .................        ...   20
G  Monitoring and Evaluation .......        ....................   21
H  Technical Assistance and Training ................        ...   21
I  Future Project Preparation .......        ...................   22
IV.      PRJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMET ..............          .   22
Project Costs ...........................            .   .....    22
Financing ..............................................    23
Procurement ............................................   23
Disbursement   ...........................................    25
Accounts and Audits    ....................................   26
V.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION. NAINTENANCE,
AND COST RECOVERY    ......................................   26
Institutional Arrangements           .............................   26
-  Implementing Agencies         ...............................   26
-  Project Coordination          ................................   29
Monitoring and Evaluation           ..............................   30
Operationi, Maintenance and Cost Recovery ............       ...   31
Implementation Schedule          ................................   32
Mid-Term Review    ........................................    33
VI.      PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES. FARM INCOME ..........    33
Agricultural Impact ....        ................................   33
-  General ........................................    33
-  Cropping Pattern and Intensity ..............       .           34
-  Crop Yields and Production ............... .       ...          34
Marketing and Prices            ............................    35
Farm Income ............................................   35
VII.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........        .....................   36
Production and Employment           ..............................   36
Other Benefits    .........................................    36
Economic Analysis           ...............................        36
Sensitivity and Risks            ...........................    37
Environmental Issues         ...................................    38
VIII.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND Rg"OMMENDATIONS ...............        ..   38



ANS
Annex 1  - Table 1:  Physical Features
- Tible 2:  Channels with Interceptor Drains
- Table 3: Channels to be Lined
- Table 4: Contracts for Surface Drains
- Table 5: Planned and Additional Drains
- Table 6: Cost estimate of Surface Drains
Annex 2  - Subsurface Drainage Field Trial Details
Annex 3  - Monitoring of Land and Water Conditions
Annex 4  -  Irrigation and Drainage Research
Annex 5  - List of Equipment
Annex 6  - Table 1:  Project Cost - Components by year
- Table 2: Project Cost - Summary Accounts by year
- Table 3: Project Cost - Summary Accounts by Component
- Table 4: Project Cost - Components by year inc. Contingencies (Rs)
- Table 5:  Project Cost - Components by year .3ac. Contingencies ($)
Annex 7  - Table 1:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
- Table 2: Disbursement Categories
Annex 8  -  Project Implemenlation Schedule
Annex 9  - Table 1:  Surface Water Availability
- Table 2: Financial Budget - Total Project
- Table 3: Financial Budgets of Small and Large Farm
- Table 4: Financial and Economic Prices
Annex 10 - Economic Benefits and Costs
Annex 11 - IDA Supervision Plan
CHART
I - Project Organization and Coordination
NME
IBRD 23406
IBRD 23407



- L -
EQRDYAN EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNARY
BoXXower           :    Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries      :    Punjab Irrigation and Agriculture Departments, and
Water and Power Development Authority.
Amount                   IDA credit : SDR 39.6 million (US$54.20 million
equivalent)
T,erms             :    Standard with 35 years maturity
On-lending Terms  :    Not applicable
Descrgtion               The proposed project is located in one of the least
developed areas of Punjab province, about 300 km south
of Lahore in the south-eastern corner of the Province.
It is Government's first effort to control
waterlogging and salinity through improved water
management. Beside removing severe water supply
constraints by increasing delivery efficiency of
canals and watercourses, it would control excessive
seepage, the major cause of waterlogging and salinity
and provide surface drainage. The main objectives of
the project are to: (i) increase agricultural
productivity and income; (ii) reduce the need for
expensive subsurface drainage and avert related
environmentally harmful effects; and (iii) improve the
equity of water distribution. To achieve these
objectives the project would: (a) conserve water by:
(i) recovering a significant amount of seepage from
the larger channels by installing interceptor drains;
and (ii) preventing seepage from distributaries and
minors by providing impervious lining and improving
vatercourses; (b) provide a network of surface drains
in the area to evacuate storm water run off; (e.) carry
out research on technical and management issues
crucial for irrigation and drainage subsectors and
their integration with agriculture; (d) provide
technical assistance to ensure adequate back-up for
implementing agencies and train project staff; and (e)
monitor and evaluate the project's impact on
groundwater table and agricultural production. The
project would be implemented over a six year period.



- il-
Benefits and Risks:      Project benefits would include: (i) increase in
agricultural production; (ii) reduction in the area
requiring subsurface drainage; (iii) improvement in
surface drainage of the area; (iv) improvement in the
eapabilities of implementing agenzies; (v)
streng"aiening of farmer institutions and their role in
?erat;ion and maintenance; (vi) enhancement of
'rinowledge on the impact of waterlogging and salinity
otn crops, and on the benefits of different types of
* :.nal lining; and (vii) development of a pilot demand-
based irrigation system.
The Punjab Irrigation Department has little past
experience of lining canals with geo-membrane. This
factor, c abined with the inherent weaknesses of
Pakistan's construction industry could result in
construction delays. To minimize this risk and to
ensure the quality of construction, contracts for
lining would be awarded following internatioral
competitive bidding procedures and techn: eal
assistance would be provided to ensure proper
specifications and construction supervision.
Similarly, there is no past experience in Punjab in
I.ntercepting seepage from canals with interceptor
drains. In view of this, a gradual approach to the
installation of interceptor drains would be adopted,
whereby drains would be installesd along the smaller
channels based on the monitoring results from larger
channels. Finally, implementation delays could occur
due to shortage of local funding. The Government is
minimizing this risk by preparing three year rolling
plans to assess future funding requirements of ongoing
as well as new projects. The current assessment is
that adequate funding would be available for the
project, as several on-going projects in Punjab are
nearing completion.
Other Riske              The Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan has recently
given a ruling that the Shariah does not permit the
payment or award of interest and thus, has instructed
the Government to modify a number of existing laws
that currently provide for payment of interest. The
Government has filed an appeal vith the Supreme Court
against the Shariat Court ruling, which has been
stayed pending the outcome of the appeal. As far as
Pakistan's obligations under loan and credit
agreements with Bank/IDA are concerned, these would be
valid and enforceable under international law, in
accordance with the terms of those agreements and the
general conditions of Bank/IDA, notwithstanding any
local law or judicial decision regarding the payment
of interest and other charges, including any such
ruling.



- lil -
Estimated Proiget Cost:
(USS Million)
Local      Foreign        Total
Interceptor Drains            15.83        6.15          21.98
Canal Lining                  13.92        4.60          18.52
On Farm Water Management       0.70        0.10           0.80
Surface Drains                 5.87        1.18           7.05
Phase 2 & Monitoring           2.31        0.94           3.25
Irrig./Drainage Research       4.07        0.58           4.66
Monitoring & Evaluation         0.31       0.00           0.31
Technical Assist. & Trng.      0.55        0.23           0.78
Future Proj. Preparation       0.57        0.43           1.00
Total Base Cost               44.13       ±4.21          58.34
Physical Contingencies      3.03        1.01           4.04
Price Contingencies         6.27        2.00           8.27
Total Project Cost             53.44      17.22          70.65 a/
a/    Includes US$ 7.6 m taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign        Total
(USS Million)
Government                    16.4         --            16.4
IDA                           37.0        17.2           54.2
Total                         53.4        17.2           70.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
93     94      95       96      97         
(US$ Million)
Annual          1.5     5.7      9.4    10.5    10.6   10.9    5.6
Cumulative      1.5     7.2    16.6    27.1    37.7   48.6   54.2
Rate of Return                  22X



PAKISTAN
90RWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
I. BACKGrOUND
Introduct_4io
1.1         Much of the advance made in Pakistan's farm production since the mid-
1960s is due to the development of irrigated crop technology. However, yields in
irrigated agriculture are low by world standards, due in part to poor management.
One of the most constraining factors is inadequate and untimely supply of
irrigation water to the farm. In mar.y areas, uncontrolled seepage to the
groundwater from canals and watercourses for more than a century has resulted in
high water tables. Continuous capillary rise and subsequent high rates of
evaporation move salts from the groundwater to the surface layers of the soil
resulting iti soil degradation. These problems have become so severe in many
areas that they cannot be overcome by the farmers alone. They require public
investments to increase the delivery efficiency of the irrigation canals, thereby
reducing excessive seepage to the groundwater, end to enlarge canal capacities to
provide adequate water for irrigation and leaching, and construction of drainage
systems for the control and disposal of harmful groundwater salts.
1.2         Due to growing concern about the problem of waterlogging and
salinity, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) requested IDA assistance in financing
another subsurface saline drainage project in Punjab Province. Preparation of
the feasibility report' was funded under Salinity Control and Reclamation
Project-VI (SCARP VI, Cr. 754-PAK), and an appraisal mission visited Pakistan
during June/July 1991. Due to data limitations, the mission found it difficuli
to clearly define the area to be provided with subsurface drains, and therefore
to come up with a reliable cost estimate for this key component. The mission
also felt that water conservation measures woul. reduce subsurface drainage needs
and lead to a more cost-effective subsurface drainage design. Instead of the
project proposed in the feasibility report, the mission proposed a two-phased
approach: a Phase 1 project, including water conservation measures, a research
program, and additional preparation work for subsurface drainage to be
implemented under a separate, future Phase 2 project. Preparation of Phase 1 was
to be funded under SCARP VI. The Phase 1 project is the subject of this staff
appraisal report.
DemograDhic and Physical Features
1.3         Pakistan's populat 7.) is now over 110 million; growing at an annual
rate of over 3%, it is estimat-> to reach 151 million2 by the year 2000.  Over
70% of the population lives !.i rural areas. Average annual per capita income is
about US$375 equivalent, but 30% of the population is estimated to have annual
income below the absolute poverty level (US$150).
l/     Fordwah  Eastern  Sadigia  (South)  Sub-Surface  Drainage  Project.
Feasibility Report, National Engineering Services Pakistan (NESPAK)
and HARZA Engineering Co. International, January 1991.
2/     Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan, World Bank, 1989.



-2-
1.4         Pakistan covers an area of about 80 million ha of mainly ariu and
semi-arid land. Approximately 20 million ha are cultivated (16.5 million ha
irrigated), 3.0 million ha exploitable forest, and 8.0 million ha xangelands.
Much of the Indus plain, the main agricultural producing region, receives less
than 150 mm of rainfall annually whereas pan evaporation is more than 1,250 mm,
which makes irrigation a virtual necessity.
Agriculture and Its Performance
1.5         Agriculture is the most important sector in the ec>....my in terms of
contribution to gross domestic product (26%), foreign exchange earnings (70% of
total, including 50% cotton based manufactures), and employment generation (54%
of the labor force). Over 90% of total farm output comes from irri8gted land.
Major crops are wheat, cotton, rice, and sugarcane. During the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (FY84-88), qgricultural production grew at 3.8% annuall- against a target of
4.9%.  Major crops are estimated to have grown by 3.1% dt       £Y90, whereas minor
crops achieved their highest growth rate for the last five 7ur' (4%).
Inadequate and untimely supply of irrigation water coupled wit.; waterlogging and
salinity continue to be among the most serious technical constraints limiting
crop production. Even with the recent significant increares in production,
average yields of major field crops remain well below those of other developing
countries.
Irrniated Agriculture and Water Management
1.6         Indus Irrigation System.  The Indus system commands about 14.2
million ha and comprises the Indus river and its major tributaries, three major
reservoirs (Tarbala, Mangla, and Chashma)3, 19 barrages or headworks, 12 lirk
canals, 43 canal commands and over 100,000 chaks.4  The length of the canals is
about 58,000 km, with communal watercourses (W/C), farm channels and field
ditches running another 1.6 M km. Irrigation was practiced in the area as early
as 1,000 BC; however, the first controlled year-round i.irgP-ion began in 1859
with the completion of the Upper BarL Doab Canal from the 1., Jaopur headworks on
the Ravi river. Following the 1960 Indus Water Treaty with India, huge link
canals were constructed to supplement inadequate flows of the eastern rivers
(Ravi and Sutlej).
1.7         In the Indus system, river water (about 130 billion m3) is diverted
by barrages and weirs into main ccnals and subsequently into branch canals,
distributaries and minors. Open, tree-flowing outlets (moghas) regulate water
flow from distributaries and minors to W/Cs. With reservoir storage and pumpage
by about 11,000 public and over 225,000 pr.vate tubewells from fresh groundwater
(FGW) aquifers (about 43 b41lion m3), cropping intensity is now about 110%. The
overall irrigation distriLt t.on efficiency is estimated to be below 40%, with
maximum losses occurring in the chaks. Operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
distribution system above the mogha is the responsibility of the rrovincial
Irrigation Departments, and farmers are responsible for O&M of W/Cs and field
channels.
1.8         Irrigation Outside the Indus System.  About 2.2 million ha of
irrigated land is located outside the Indus canal command area (cca), scattered
in relatively small parcels with water coming from open wells, tubewells, lift
3/     About 18 billion m3 of live storage.
4/     Tertiary irrigation command.



-3-
pumps, karezes5, springs, and small diversions. Generally, water supply in
these systems is uncertain and varies with season and location. Normallv, these
systems do not suffer from waterlogging and salinity; however, O&M costs ate
r.latively high, resulting in poor and inefficient 0&M.
1.9         On-Pam Water Mana._ement.   In each canal command, land is divided
into watercourse command areas -- chaks. Each chak is a complex miniature
Irrigation system with an average length of channels of 16 km. Water
distribution to the field is governed by a weekly tirs rotation (warabundi) based
on the size of land holding. Planned water duty was originally about 0.085 m3
per second for each 400 ha, which permitted a cropping Lntensity of about 80%. A
series of "SAID financed experiments and investigations conducted in the 1970 at
WAPDA's Mona Reclamation Experiment Station (MRES) showed that water losses in
the communal W/Cs were between 30% and 50% with additietil losses in the farmer
branches and field ditches. Technological improvement centered on partial brick
lining of W/Cs, design and maintenance of earthen sections, design of permanent
outlets, and specifications for land levelling.
Drainage Systems
1.10        Groundwater Situation and Sianificance.  The hydrological talance of
the Indus plain has been significantly altered during the past century by
expanded diversion of river flows for irrigation. Seepage from the canal system
and W/Cs, and deep percolation of irrigation water from irrigated land have
resulted in a gradual rise of the groundwater table. At the beginning of this
century, the water table was generally below 15-20 m and therefore subsurface
drains were not provided because it would have been uneconomic to do so.
However, the Indus Basin Salinitv Survey8 reports that 22% of the Indus
irrigation system has a water table within 1.8 m and another 30% within 3 m of
the surface. TMm waterlogging is increasing and estimates are that currently
over 40% of the area has water table within 3.0 m of the surface7. Diverting
water to land brings with it salts which concentrate in the upper soil layers
when inadequate water is applied to leach them out and/or by capillary action
when the water table is less than 1.5 m from the surface. This concentration of
salts makes soils problematic, and along with free water table in the root zone
reduces crop yields. Hence, a major threat to increasing crop production is
waterlogging and salinity.
1.11        Surface Drains.  Numerous studies and investigations in Pakistan in
the 1930s reported that waterlogging was caused by inadequate surface drains and
differences in the permeability of soil sub-strata. Her.;*, it was reasoned that
the rising groundwater table was caused mainly by monsoon rainfall. If this
would have been so, a high water table would have prevailed throughout the Indus
Plain before the introduction of irrigation, which was not the case. Since the
major contributor to waterlogging is deep percolation of diverted irrigation
water, surface drains have had only marginal effect in slowing the rise of the
groundwater table. This is not to minimize their value because they do provide:
(i) relief from rain flooding; (ii) an outlet for subsurface drainage effluent;
(iii) reduction of seepage of rainfall to the groundwater; and (iv) limited
removal of subsurface water.
5/     Traditional irrigation system with tunnel channel.
6/     Indus Basin Salinity Survey, VAPDA, 1981.
7      Seventh Five Year Plan Proposals (1988-1993),  1987,  'Report of
Technical Committee on Drainage and Reclamation'.



-4-
1.12        In 1973 and 1976, and again in 1988, floods from heavy monsoon rains
resulted in masslve property damage and loss of nearly 1,000 lives.  To reduce
such damage, GOP and the Provinces have installed about 15,000 km of surface
drains and over 8,250 km of flood protection bunds. In an effort to strengthen
the surface drainage and flood protection network, the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) financed the preparation of a National Flood Plan and is assisting in
financing envisaged works. As part of this program there is need to extend the
surface drainage system to provide appropriate outlets to chaks.
1.13        Subsurface Drainaue.  Responsibility for addressing the problem of
waterlogging and salinity was assigned to WAPDA in 1958. Based on various
studies, WAPDA initiated a nationwide program of salinity control and reclamation
projects (SCARPs) under which public tubewella were installed to: (i) control
waterlogging and salinity; and (ii) develop fresh groundwater (FGW)8 resources
for agricultural production. Installation of these large turbine tubevells (2-5
cusee capacity) and related surface drains has been funded under the Federal
Annual Development Program (ADP), whereas the Provincial Irrigation Departments
have been responsible for O&M, funded under the Provincial Non-Development
Budgets (NDB). VAPDA has ir.stalled about 12,500 tubewells, of which about 11,000
in FGW and the rest in SGW zones. When completed, the SCARPs (mostly locally
funded) are to cover about 6.25 million ha. Even though over Rs 6,000 million
have been invested in the program, only about 35X of this target has been
achieved so far. The SCARPs raised farmers' interest in groundrater development,
which resulted in installation of over 250.000 small private suction-lift pumps
(one cusec capacity or less).  These private tubewells have contributed
substantially to the control of waterlogging and salinity, but raised some
government officials' concern about over-exploitation of the groundwater
resources in highly developad areas. It is estimated that annual pumpage of
private tubewells is over 37 billion m3, and that of public tubewells about 6
billion m3.
1.14        SCARP tubevells have contributed to aaeliorating waterlogging and
salinity in localized areas; however, the problem continues to grow even in the
SCARP areas. WAPDA reported that about 25% of the SCARP command area has a
watertable within 1.6 m of the surface. This continuing high water table has
resulted from a multitude of problems, i.e., technical, institutional, financial,
and economic.9 Pumping capacity of individual SCARPs declines by about 4.5%
annually because of blockage of screens and gravel packs, and poor pump
maintenance. The cost (Rs 1416 million in FY92) of operating tubewells in Punjab
Province absorbs more than 50% of available O&M funding even though tubewells are
operated on a very limited basis.
Government Poliec and Bank Group Assistance Strateov
1.15        Government Policy.       The Revised Action Programme for Irrigated
Agriculture (RAP), resulting from the UNDP financed, WAPDA implemented Indus
Planning Study (PAK/74/044), for which the Bank was executing agency, was
completed in May 1979. A major recommendation of RAP was provision of
"controlled" and/or "guaranteed" water supplics. To the extent possible,
irrigation supplies should be made available to match crop water needs in
6/     FGW in Pakistan is generally defined as having total dissolved
solids (TDS) of less than 1,000 parts per million (ppm), and saline
groundwater (SGW) as having more than 1,000 ppm.
9/     Revised Action Protramme for Irrigated Agriculture, WAPDA Master
Planning and Review Division, May 1979.



quantity and time. The recommended policies, programs and project modes to
achieve this objective were:
(i)      FGW resoutces should be developed and exploited by the private
sector, with public sector assistance in the form of supervised
credit, and technology and information supply;
(ui)      a program should be implemented for transferring public FGW tubewells
to the private sector (SCARP Transition);
(iii)      a V/C lining program should be executed by the public sector;
(iv)      control of waterlogging and salinity in SGW areas should have high
priority in the goverrment's investment program; and
(v)      a basin and canal command water management program should be
introduced.
The above recommendations, along with other RAP proposals, i.e., elimination of
tubevell and fertilizer stbsidies, investment priority for water management,
systems rehabilitation, ari programs to improve delivery of non-water inputs and
services, have been adoptet policy of GOP in its Fifth, Sixth and Seventh (FY89-
93) Five-Year Plans. GOP fully recognizes that the huge investment made in
irrigation and drainage would be largely wasted if the facilities are not
maintained, efficiency of water delivery and use is not improved, and further
drainage is not provided to check waterlogging and salinity.
1.16        The Water Sector Investment Planning Study (WSIPS, December 1990),
also UNDP financed with the Bank as executing agency, recommends to undertake a
program of studies, research and pilot projects which would lead to the
formulation and implementation of a long-term strategy of Integrated
Comprehensive Management of the Indus Basin. The short-term strategy proposed by
WSIPS is:
(i)      Improved operation of the existing irrigation systems.
(ii)      Equitable water distribution to farm outlets (moghas).
(iiL)      Watercourse lining.
(iv)      Conjunctive use of Mangla and Tarbela reservoirs.
(v)      Cost recovery.
(vi)      Project preparation for pending schemes.
(vii)      Investigations, research and pilot programs.
1.17        With the settlement of the water allocation dispute between the
provinces, a dominant constraint to efficient utilization of available vater has
been removed, providing opportunities for a comprehensive approach to irrigation
development. In the absence of this agreement, development efforts were usually
limited to improving a single aspect or section of an irrigation system.
Investment projects and modes of operation that might alter the water allocations
vere out of consideration. The current environment allows optimal use of water
resources vithin each province, making it possible to adopt improved operational
policies along with the development efforts.



6-
1.18        Bank Group Assistance Strategv in agriculture is directed primarily
at improving productivity in the sector, with particular emphasis on supporting
development and improved management of Pakistan's Indus river irrigation system.
The Bank's involvement in the water sector dates back to the successful
settlement of the apportionment of the Indus water between Pakistan and India.
Bank's financial assistance as well as polLcy advLce has contributed to
attainment of self-sufficiency and export generation in the past decade. Up to
the mid-1970s, the Bank assisted with the construction of large dams and link
canals to develop additional water supplies. The Bank also assisted GOP with its
SCARP program. In 1980s increasing attention was devoted to irrigation systems
rehabliltation along with controlling the problems of waterlogging and salinity.
The Bank's dialogue with the Government focussed on the long term sustainability
of the lrrigation system and a new approach to cost recovery was instituted with
the Government's endorsement. It involved provision of adequats fundin, for O&M,
cost recovery and privatization of public tubewells in the fresh groundwater
areas. These policies have been instrumental in the growth of agricultural
production.
1.19        The Bank Group's operations include:
(i)      SCARPs and drainage projects, to control waterlogging and salinity
(Khairpur Tubewell Drainage Project [Cr. 22-PAK], Khairpur Tile
Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development Project (Cr. 684-PAK],
SCARP VI [Cr. 754-PAK], SCARP Mardan (Cr.877-PAR], Fourth Drainage
Project (Gr. 1375-PAR], Left Bank Outfall Drain Project tLBOD, Cr.
1532-PAK]. SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Cr. 1693-PAK]) and the
Second SCARP Transition Project (Cr. 2257-PAR);
(ii)      projects to improve and rehabilitate the deteriorated irrigation
eystem (Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project [Cr. 1239-PAR] and
Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project [ISRP-II, Cr. 1888-
PAR], Command Water Management Project [CWMP, Cr. 1487-PAR];
(iii)      projects to improve water use in watercourse commands and on farms
(On-Farm Water Management Project [Cr. 1163-PAK], Second On-Farm
Water Management Project (Cr. 1603-PAR]), and the Third On-Farm Water
Management Project (OFWM-III, Cr. 2245-PAK and Ln. 3327-PAR); and
(iv)      a number of area development, flood damage restoration, agricultural
extensLon and research, agricultural credit, and seeds projects.
1.20        While the above policies and operations have played crucial role in
stimulating agricultural growth, it is now recognized that further improvements
in productivity would primarily depend upon better match±ug trrigation supplies
with crop demand and increasing involvement of farmers in decision making and
operation and maintenance. Accordingly, the Bank's strategy now emphasizes: (i)
a demand-based approach to irrigation management to achieve equitable and timely
water deliveries and efficient use of water; (ii) preventive measures to control
degradation of the resource base due to waterlogging and salinity; (iil)
integration of institutions involved in irrigation and agriculture; and (iv)
building farmer institutions.
Lesson. Learned from IDA Assisted Prolects
1.21        The projects which IDA helped finance in the sector have experienced
a variety of implementation problems, i.e., slow GOP approval process, inadequate
procurement procedures, unavailability of final designs for construction, and



inexperienced and inadequately capitalized contractors. This has delayed
implementation -- for example, SCARP VI and SCARP Mardan are now being completed
after an implementation period of more than ten years. While some of the factors
that had caused serious delays in ongoing projects -- delay in preparation of PC-
110 documents, and lack of engineering designs -- are now being addressed
through assistance by appraisal teams as necessary (PC-1 preparation) and
stricter Government/Bank requirements (availability of designs), the problem of
inexperienced, under-capitalized civil works contractors remains. This problem
became particularly acute in the Fourth Drainage Project: the subsurface
drainage contractor abandoned the site in May 1990, and it took until April 1991
to reach an understanding on the resumption of work and completion of remaining
items (now expected by 1993).
1.22        On the contrary, progress in CWMP and ISRP-II (specially in Punjab)
is quite satisfactory. Both of these projects have large canal remodelling and
lining components. Similarly, the completion of the first two On-Farm Water
Management Projects was timely, and the projects' physical targets were achieved.
In most of these investments, the structural measures remained the major focus of
GOP, and water management, integrated use of rivers, conjunctive use of ground-
and surface water, and advanced crop planning received limited attention. From
this experience the following lessons have been learned:
(i)      there is a need to tighten prequalification and bidding procedures to
ensure awards are made to competent and well-financed contractors;
(ii)      current institutional capability to implement irrigation projects is
better than drainage projects;
(iii)      subsurface drainage technology, both horizontal (tile) and vertical
(tubewell), employed as designed, is effective in ameliorating the
debilitating problems of waterlogging and salinity;
(iv)      adequate O&M funding and trained manpower must be provided to ensure
sustainability of benefits;
(v)      coordinated supply of non-water inputs and services is required to
meet the objective of increased agricultural production; and
(vi)      further emphasis is needed on the water management policies basin
wide, and at the provincial and canal command levels.
Issues
1:23        There are three significant issues relating to the proposed project
that need to be appropriately resolved. They are: selection of experienced and
well-capitalized contractors; strengthening of O&M funding and cost recovery
programs; and a vulti-dimensional approach to ensure efficient increases in
agricultural production.
1.24        Selection of Experienced and Well-Capitalized Civil Works
Contractors. The IDA assisted SCARP VI, SCARP Mardan, and Fourth Drainage
projects have been plagued by implementation problems directly associated with
inefficient operation and management of selected contractors. The firms selected
10/ PC-1 stands for Planning Commission Proforma number 1. It is a proforma
on which salient features of development project are submitted for GOPs approval.



had little, if any, prior field experience in remodelling and lining large canals
or installing tubeweli.s or horizontal pipe drains as required under the contract.
This inexperience was compounded by low bids, which made it almost impossible for
the contractor to install the works without losing money. Steps must be taken to
ensure that only experienced and well-capitalized contractors are prequalified
and selected. Prospective contractors must be thoroughly evaluated to ensure
their ability to fulfil' contract provisions.  Awarding of contracts to firms of
questionable capability discourages bona fide bids as potential bidders know that
past awards have gone to such firms at unprofitable prices. Arrangements must be
made by GOP to ensure: (i) broad dissemination of information on the nature of
civil works to be carried out and the required qualifications of contractors;
(ii) careful evaluation of prequalification applications and bids; and (iii)
inspection of potential contractors to verify their technical (personnel and
equipment) and financial capabilities.
1.25        Operation and Maintenance (OEM) Funding.  The operation and
maintenance of reservoirs and inter-river link canals is managed by the Water and
Power Development Authority (WAPDA, on behalf of the federal government). The
O&M of the irrigation canal systems down to the watercourse outlets (mogha) is
the responsibility of the Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs). Beyond the
mogha, farmers maintain the watercourses and farm channels. The maintenance of
SCARP tubevel's and tile drainage pumps is also the responsibility of PIDs.
Funding for O&M of the irrigation system including the SCARP tubewells is
allocated to PIDs by the Provincial Finance Departments through the Non-
Development Budget (NDB). Normally O&M funding in the NDB should be met by
financial resources generated within the Province. However, O&M funding has been
adversely affected by the current public financial constraints, notwithstanding
supplemental grants by GOP to provincial NDBs. Furthermore to alleviate the
funding problem, GOP has assumed the responsibility for rehabilitation of flood
protection works and included it in the Federal Annual Development Program (ADP).
1.26        During the 1970s a major portion of the O&M budget was absorbed by
the O&M cost of SCARP tubewells, resulting in shortfalls in the O&M needs for
canals, surface drains and flood protection works. To overcome this problem, GOP
and GOProvinces accepted the recommendation of Revised Action Programme for
Irrigated Agriculture and initiated a transition program to transfer tubewells in
the FGW zones to the private sector for operation, maintenance, and replacement.
To catch up with deferred maintenance, GOP and GOProvinces, with assistance from
the Bank and other donors (such as USAID), embarked on a program to rehabilitate
the irrigation system. The IDA-financed Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project
(ISRP-I, Cr 1239-PAK), a three-year time slice of the rehabilitation program, was
initiated in 1983 in all four provinces. Under ISRP-I and the Command Water
Management Project (CWMP), GOP and GOProvinces agreed to increase O&M funding for
irrigation and drainage facilities and to furnish annual updates of O&M funding
proposals to IDA for review and comment. During FY83 through FY87 the funding
levels were increased by about 15% annually, and they generally met or exceeded
the agreed O&M targets established under ISRP-I.
1.27        During the appraisal of ISRP-II, the FY88 O&M funding levels were
considered adequate, and thus emphasis was placed on two areas: (a) improving the
capability and efficiency of PIDs in carrying out O&M activities; and (b)
maintaining in real terms the level of O&M funding, using the FY88 funding levels
as benchmarks for the existing facilities with appropriate increases to cover any
new facilities. It is premature to make an evaluation of the extent to which the
first objective is being met, as the ISRP-II is still ongoing. However, actual
O&M funding allocations have fallen short of targets in all Provinces except NWFP
since FY88. As already stated, the current financial constraints facing GOP and



- 9 -
the Provinces have been a major factor contributing to this problem. In Jaruary
1992, however, there have been two positive developments. First, GOPunjab
enhanced its O&M budget by a significant amount (Rs 75 million, about a 7%
Increase in the annual allocation); and second, a program for desilting canals in
unjab was undertuken with voluntary labor contributed by farmers (estimated cost
Rs 40 million). These two measures have reduced the gap between the total
allocation and the agreed O&M funding target in Punjab. While the other
provinces have yet to take steps to enhance O&M budgets, assurances were provided
during the March 1992 country implementation review (CIR) between the Bank, GOP
and GOProvinces that O&M allocations would be enhanced to the agreed targets.
1.28        The annual review and discussion process adopted during the 1980s was
instrumental in highlighting the importance of O&M allocations and ensuring
adequate allocations in the annual NDBs. During the CIR, and in subsequent
discussions, GOP and GOProvinces have expressed the need for reviewing the O&M
allocation targets. In this regard discussions with the government have already
begun with the objective of introducing an annual review process in which the
Bank and the government would reach agreement on the O&M allocations for the
following fiscal ,Year.
1.29        Cost Recovery.  In order to provide adequate funds for proper
maintenance of the system, it is the Government's objective to recover, as a
minimum, the entire O&M expenditures through water charges. In Punjab and NWFP,
water charges are assessed by PIDs, and in Sindh and Balochistan by the Revenue
Department. In all provinces the collection is done by the Revenue Departments.
Water charges are based on crop acreage and the type of crop (indirectly relating
to water use).
1.30        A major reason for the inadequacy of O&M funds is the low level of
water charges. During the mid-seventies water charges supplied revenues
totalling about 70% of total O&M expenditures, even though these expenditures
were quite low. However, O&M expenditures increased rapidly due to the increase
in cost of operating tubewells. Over this period, GOP and IDA have held a
continuous dialogue on the subject of water charges and, under several IDA-
assisted projects, the provinces were required to increase water charges.
Through FY79-82, all provinces increased water charges by about 95%. Sindh and
Balochistan further increased water cha..ges in FY83, and Sindh introduced a new
drainage cess in FY84. However, the provir..es have not significantly increased
water charges since FY84, following the introduction of Ushr, an Islamic levy
used by local authorities to benefit the needy. Ushr levy is assessed on
agricultural production, and government considered that revenue from this levy
qualifies as a substitution for water charges.
1.31        The appraisal of ISRP-II identified several sub-issues contributing
to the widening gap between O&M allocations and actual water charges collected.
These included rapidly increasing O&M costs with no concurrent increase in water
charge, and poorly administered water charge assessment and collection programs.
GOP and GOProvinces agreed to arrangements leading to eventual elimination of O&M
subsidies through: (i) increasing revenue by improving water charge assessment
and collection procedures; (ii) reducing O&M requirements by privatizing public
tubewells in FGW areas (SCARP Transition); and (iii) water charge adjustments to
fill the gaps between the improved collections and required O&M allocations.
These water charge adjustments were to commence after July 1, 1992, and full
collection of O&M expenditures was expected by July 1, 1997. Measures to improve
revenue collection are in the early stages of implementation and expected results
are slow to appear. Nevertheless, in FY91 O&M revenue collected in Punjab
increased by more than 30%. There has also been some progress on privatizing



- 10 -
tubevells. No significant water charge increases have been implemented since the
agreement. During the recent CIR, GOProvinces reiterated their commitment to
increase water charges in line with agreed covenants, and by July 1992, to
develop plans to reach full O&M cost recovery. To this end, GOP and GOProvinces
would adopt a transparent and annually monitorable plan to achieve full recovery
by end FY98. Discussions are already underway between the Bank, GOP and
GOProvinces to work out an agreement in this regard.
1.32        Multi-Dimensional Approach to Ensure Increased Agricultural
Production. GOP recognizes the necessity of a multi-dimensional approach for
achieving efficient increases in agricultural production. Currently, there are
many nation- and province-wide agricultural projects being implemented, and the
proposed project would combine features of these projects (systems improvement,
on-farm water management, agricultural extension and research). In addition, GOP
plans to make arrangements in the project area to ensure that all essential
agricultural components will be available to beneficiaries. Appropriate
arrangements for providing such components would be necessary for realizing the
full benefits of the project investment. The proposed project's coordination
arrangements would help ensure this.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.33        This project would bring together major technical and policy
recommendations of the Revised Action Program and Water Sector Investment
Planning Study. Even more importantly, following the agreement on the
apportionment of Indus waters among the Provinces, it provides for the first time
the opportunity to adopt an integrated approach to irrigation development. It
will also introduce a new and cost effective approach to control waterlogging and
salinity through water conservation measures that are now feasible following the
vater apportionment agreement. Furthermore, the project's research component
would provide answers to a number of questions critical for the future
development of the Indus Basin irrigation system as intended in the provincial
water apportionment agreement. Through its policy dialogue with the Government
and technical deliberations with the implementing agencies, the Bank Group is
well placed to assist in addressing policy, institutional, and technical issues
relating to integrated irrigated agriculture management and development of a
"demand based" irrigation system. The Bank's involvement would also play a
catalytic role in:
(i)      making irrigated agriculture possible at lower cost by reducing the
need for subsurface drainage;
(ii)      mobilizing resources for financing complex and costly future
projects;
(iii)      ensuring full consideration and appropriate mitigation of adverse
environmental effects of drainage projects;
(iv)      assuring continuation of the Bank's leadership among donors in the
field of irrigation and drainage, which is particularly important at
this time when many new avenues of policy and operational initiatives
are opening;
(v)      improving coordination between agriculture and irrigation activities
and respective instttutions; and
(vi)      building farmer institutions and providing them a formal role in O&N.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.1         The proposed project is located about 300 km south of Lahore in the
south-eastern corner of Punjab Province. It covers parts of the tehsils of
Bahawalnagar, Haroonabad, and Chishtian in the Bahawalnagar District. The area
is bordered on the northwest by the Malik Branch Canal, on the south by lands
served by the 6-R distributary of the Hakra Branch, and on the east by India (see
Map IBRD 23407). Gross area is about 121,000 ha and command area (cca) about
105,000 ha (Annex 1, Table 1). There are approximately 242,000 inhabitants,
living in a rural setting with many villages, several small, but no major towns.
Climate
2.2         The area has arid climate except during the July-September monsoon
season. Average annual rainfall is about 225 mm. With pan evaporation in excess
of 2,000 mm, irrigation is essential for agriculture. The hottest month is June
with average maximum temperature of 460C. January is the coolest month with
average maximum temperature of 240C and minimum of 0°C. The project area is in
the Punjab Cotton Wheat agro-climatic zone where conditions permit year-round
cultivation.
Physical Features
2.3         Soils and Land Forms.   The project area was claimed from the
Cholistan desert in the 1930s when surface irrigation water was first delivered
to that part of Punjab. The topsoil is generally medium textured and underlaid
by several hundred meters of sand and silt deposited by the Ganges river prior to
the diversion of its flow to the Bay of Bengal. The topography is largely flat
with no natural drainage. Outcropping sand dunes occupy about 6% of the area.
Almost 70X of the area is made up of terrace remnants. The most important
feature of these soils is the occurrence of compact and calcareous silty/clayey
non-continuous layers at varying depths, which restrict the downward flow of
water and act as barriers to vertical drainage. This condition appears to be
less prevalent in the southern portion of the project area. The rest of the
soils are mostly subrecent levees; although low in organic matter and available
phosphorus they, along with the terrace remnants, are suitable for irrigated
agriculture.
2.4         Irrigation System and Water Supply.  The project area is served by
the Hakra and Malik branch canals, which are supplied by the Eastern Sadiqia
canal having its offtake at the Suleimanki headworks on the Sutlej river
(completed in 1933). The original designed water duty was for 0.085 cumec per
400 ha (3 cusecs per 1000 acres), which would permit a cropping intensity of
about 80X (40% each season). The quality of the surface water is good (about 300
micromhos). Following the 1960 Indus Water Treaty with India, the area receives
its water supply through the Balloki-Suleimanki link, which brings it under the
command of Mangla reservoir. Most of the channels are unlined and due to the
pervious nature of the soils leak large quantities of water. This seepage is one
of the main reasons for waterlogging and salinization of soils in the project
area.
2.5         Water supply has increased significantly since the commissioning of
the Mangla dam and improvement of diversion structures (barrages), but the canal
capacity has not been increased. For this reason, canals are being operated
without freeboard. Because of the increased water supply but more significantly
subirrigation from the shallow water tables, the cropping intensity is now about
130X. High evaporation from saline groundwater brings large quantities of salts



- 12 -
to the soil, affecting crop yields adversely.   Surface water supply is short
during the periods of peak crop water requirement (March, April, August,
September and October). and in surplus during the rest of the year. According to
the Baseline Survey carried out in 1989.11 total supply to the project area is
about 1.16 MAF (for monthly supplies see Annex 9, Table 1). Water distribution
among distributaries and minors is inequitable. Similarly, flows to the
watercourses are also unequal with some drawing more than the design quantity and
some less   Furthermore, distribution within the watercourse command varies.
Inequity in distribution results in inefficient use of surface water and higher
seepsge to the groundwater.
2.6         The profiect area is underlain by the sediment deposited by Sutlej-
Hakra river system.  The quality of groundwater in the area is highly saline.
Because of poor aquifer conditions and marginal-to-poor quality groundwater
(generally above 1,250 micromhos), only limited groundwater development has taken
place. However, due to continuous seepage from the irrigation system a zone of
fresh groundwater has been formed along the canals. During the last six years
about 400 small private tubewells (one cusec or less) have been installed to
provide supplemental ir-igation water only during periods of peak crop water
requirements. Therefore, utilization of these wells is very low. These
tubewells are mostly located close to irrigation channels because groundwater
quality around these channels is relatively better due to excessive seepage.
Depending upon their location and depth, the water quality of these tubewells
varies from fresh to brackish. Major constraints for the development of the
fresh groundwater are its limited areal extent and contact with highly saline
groundwater. Preliminary surveys indicate that large scale groundwater
development in the area is not possible.
2.7         Drainage.  There is no natural drainage system; roads and irrigation
system have blocked most of the overland runoff. The project area was included
as SCARP VIII in the regional development program for the Northern Indus Plains
prepared by Timpton and Kalmbach, Inc. (consultants to WAPDA) in 1967. It was
redefined in 1978 by NESPAK, covering a total of 676,353 ha (1.67 million acres)
on the left side of the Sutlej river in the Fordwah and Sadiqia canal commands.
Out of this total, a pilot project of 31,509 ha (77,800 acres), known as
Minchinabad Pilot Project, was implemented in the 1970s. In 1987, WAPDA further
redefined the project area, excluding areas underlain by fresh groundwater and
the area covered by CWMP (Cr. 1487-PAK). This project, named Fordwah Eastern
Sadiqia Remaining Phase-I (SCARP VIII), covered about 250,500 ha (618,580 acres).
The most recent version of this project consists of two parts, the Northern and
the Southern Zone. An independent network of surface drains has been planned for
each zone. The surface drains in the North zone are to discharge into the Sutlej
river below the Islam Headworks. The surface drains in the South zone are to
discharge into a series of evaporation ponds situated at the end of the natural
slope in the southwest of the project area in the Cholistan desert. The same
evaporation ponds would be used to dispose of subsurface drainage effluent from
the 6-R subproject of CWMP. Due to shortage of funds, work on surface drains has
not progressed well. All of the planned surface drains in the South zone fall ia
the area of the proposed Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South) Project, Phase 1.
2.8         The area does not have arty subsurface drainage, except the private
tubewells mentioned in para 2.6 and some public tubewells installed by WAPDA.
1I/    Agro-Economic Evaluation, Baseline Survey, Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia
Project Phase-I & II SCARP VIII, Watercourse Monitoring & Evaluation Directorate,
Planning and Investigation Organization, WAPDA, October 1989.



- 13 -
The performance of the public tubewells has been marginal, mainly because of the
poor aquifer conditions and low number of operating hours. Because of the small
quantity of water pumped, the tubewells have provided only limited relief from
waterlogging and salinity.
Waterlogging and Salinity
2.9         About 50% of the project area is considered waterlogged by GOP (see
Table 2.1) with a permanent water table within 1.5 m (5 feet) of the surface. It
is estimated that more than 45% of the delivered surface water percolates to the
groundwater. Waterlogging first appeared on lands in the upper reaches of the
Hakra Branch and is gradually moving down channel with an additional 6,000 ha
affected each year. Currently, 11% of the area has a groundwater table of less
than 0.76 m (2.5 feet), 17% of 0.76-1.22 m, and 21% of 1.22-1.52 m (4-5 feet).
Table 2.1: CURRENT WATERLOGGING AND SALl. Y CONDITIONS
Waterlogging                           Soil Salinity
Groundwater  Percent   Cumu-           EC0      Percent
Table Depth  of CCA    lative       (mmohs/cm   of CCA    Cumulative
(feet)                            at 250C)
<    .76    11        11          Over 16       4           4
1.76 - 1.22    17        28          8  - 16        1          5
1.22 - 1.52    21        49          4  -  8       7          12
over  1.52    51       100             <  4      88         100
2.10        About 12% of the cca is affected by soil salinity above threshold
tolerance levels of most crops12. Unless the excessive seepage from the
irrigation system is controlled and surface drainage relief is provided,
waterlogging and salinity will keep increasing. At the current rate of increase,
it is estimated that by the year 2000 about 50% of the cca would have water table
depth of less than 1.2 m and EC, of more than 8 mmohs/cm, and by 2010 this share
would increase to 65%.
Farm Size and Tenure
2.11        Table 2.2 shows the tenurial arrangements in the project area.  The
average farm size (5.8 ha) is about the same as the average for the country
(about 5.0 ha). Owner-operated farms account for half of the land, tenant-
operated farms about 29%, and owner-cum-tenant farms the remaining 21%. About
half of the farms are fragmented.
12/    Threshold tolerance level of soil salinity for sugarcane is EC, 1.7,
for rabi fodder 1.5, kharif fodder 1.8, rice 3.0, wheat 6.0 and
cotton 7.7. Source: Naas and Hoffman, Crop Salt Tolerance Current
Assessment, Journal of Irrigation and Drainage Division, ASCE, June
1977.



- 14 -
Table 2.2: TENURIAL ARRANGEMENTS AND FARM SIZE (ha)
Number of Farms     Farm Area         Average
Farm Size                      Number       X    Area (ha)    %    Size (ha)
Small (less than 5 ha)          9,701       54      26,193     25      2.7
Medium (5-10 ha)                5,588       31      33,528     32      6.0
Large (over 10 ha)              2.714       15      45.053    A3      16.6
TOTAL                    18,003      100     104,774   100       5.8
Source:  Based on Pakistan Agriculture Census Report, 1980 (Punjab).
Cropping Intensities and Yields
2.12        The major crops in the project area are wheat, cotton, sugarcane,
fodder, and IRRI rice. These crops account for more than 94% of the cropped
area; the rest is under maize, pulses, and other minor crops. Annual cropping
intensity is 129%, with 55% in kharif and 74% in rabi, counting sugarcane in both
seasons. Considering that surface water availability is limited, these cropping
intensities are quite high. The main reason is subirrigation from the shallow
water tables. Crop yields are low and vary throughout the project area dependino
upon soil conditions, degree of waterlogging, and farm practices. Yields are
about 1.6 tons/ha for rice, 1.3 tons/ha for cotton, 1.9 tons/ha for wheat, 30
tons/ha for sugarcane, and 0.8 tons/ha for oilseeds. Crop productiotn and yields
are adversely affected by shortage of irrigation water during periods of peak
crop water requirements, waterlogging and salinity, and insufficient supply of
non-water inputs (good quality seeds, fertilizer, and pesticides) and services.
Agricultural Inputs and Services
2.13        Inputs.  There is a shortage of improved seeds in the project area.
Most farmers keep their own seeds or buy inferior quality from local dealers
because of poor distribution facilities and low supplies. Available supplies of
Improved seeds meet about 7% of the area's requirement for wheat, 12% for cotton,
and less than 1% for rice. The corresponding figures for Punjab are 40% for
cotton, and 20-30% for wheat and rice. The Punjab Seed Corporation (PSC) is the
main source of improved seeds for cotton, wheat and rice. Some private suppliers
have also recently started marketing seeds for cotton, maize, and some minor
crops. These private suppliers are expected to play an increasing role in the
future, particularly for cotton and 'inor crops. Seeds produced by the PSC are
procured by the Punjab Agricultural Development and Supplies Corporation (PADSC)
and distributed through its seven depots. PSC also has about 34 private dealers
in the area. Currently, neither PSG nor PADSC have bulk storage facilities for
seed in the project area. This also makes timely availability of improved seeds
difficult.
2.14        Fertilizer use in the project area is low.  In 1987-88, total
fertilizer application was estimated to be 62 kg/ha, against 117 kg/ha for Punjab
and 86 kg/ha for Pakistan. Fertilizer applications are generally comparable to
the Punjab average, except in areas with high water table and soil salinity.
Fertilizer distribution is handled both by private and public sector agenc'es;
they include National Fertilizer Marketing Limited, a subsidiary of the public
National Fertilizer Corporation, and three private companies, Fauji Fertilizer,
Davood-Hercules, and Exxon. PADSC also distributes phosphatic fertilizers, which
are mostly imported. Due to centralized imports of these fertilizers, supplies
are often erratic and shortages occur during peak demand periods.



- 15 -
2.15        Pesticide use in the project area is higher than on average in
Punjab, mainly because of cotton of which 60%-80% is sprayed. Pesticide and
herbicide marketing is mainly handled by the private sector.
2.16        Agricultural Suponrt Services.  Agricultural extension services in
the project area are being strengthened under the on-going Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Project, Phase II (AEAR-II, Cr. 1762-PAK), which introduced
the Training and Visit (T&V) system all over Punjab in 1987. The Deputy Director
Agriculture (DDA) of Bahawalnagar district, assisted by three Extra Assistant
Directors of Agriculture (EADA) at the tehsil headquarters of Haroonabad,
Chishtian, and Bahawalnagar, is in charge of the extension activities in the
project area. The nearest Adaptive Research Farm is at Vihari, about 50 km from
the project area.
2.17        To enhance the capability of the extension service in providing
advice tailored to the needs of farmers in a specific area, on-farm research is
being introduced under AEAR-II and the Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr.
2154-PAK). Technical assistance is being provided to support the adaptive
research program in developing systematic on-farm research, introducing
computerized data processing, strengthening research-extension linkages, and
advising on procedures for developing extension messages. Diagnostic surveys are
to be carried out through multi-disciplinary teams of extension and research
staff to help develop appropriate research programs to so'Lve farmers' priority
needs in various agro-climatic zones.
Marketing
2.18        In Pakistan, both government and the private sector are engaged in
procurement and marketing of farm output. Government procurement through
designated agencies covers wheat, cotton, rice, gram, potatoes, onions, oilseeds
and sugarcane. Prices for these products are fixed taking into consideration the
cost of production, domestic demand, supply and stock position, domestic and
international prices, and possible impact on the cost of living. Support prices
through risk transfer are to provide incentives to farmers (at substantial cost
to government, which sometimes leads to a situation where a support price is set
but no transactions take place because no budget is provided).
2.19        Farmers sell surplus production to individual buyers, government or
semi-government procurement agencies and agro-processing plants, or at village
markets where transactions are carried out by brokers, traders, and commission
agents. Further up the marketing chain is a wide network of town markets through
which agricultural commodities from the village markets are channeled by brokers,
wholesalers and retailers to the larger urban centers for sale to consumers and
for export. Present marketing and processing facilities are adequate to handle
the project's estimated incremental outputs.
2.20        Currently, about 60% of Pakistan's wheat production is consumed on
the farm or sold in the open market. The rest is marketed in the public sector.
Public sector procurement is carried out by the Provincial Food Departments and
the Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation (PASSCO). About half
of Pakistan's total paddy production is consumed on the farm, while most of the
marketable surplus is bought by the state-owned Rice Export Corporation (RECP)
and is exported. Cotton and sugarcane are sold, either directly or through an
intermediary, to ginneries and sugar mills. Ginned cotton is consumed
domestically as well as exported by the state-owned Cotton Export Corporation and
private firms. In areas where there is no sugar mill, sugarcane is usually
processed into gur (raw sugar) for local consumption.



- 16 -
2.21        In the project area, the tehail headquarters of Haroonabad,
Bahawalnagar and Chishtian are the main marketing centers for farm inputs and
outputs. Most of the products are handled by commission agents. Wheat, paddy,
and cotton are also procured by public sector agencies, including the Punjab Food
Department, PASSCO, Rice Export Corporation, and Cotton Export Corporation. Most
of the sugarcane is sold to the sugar mills at Chishtian and Bahawalnagar and the
rest is converted into gur. About 30 ginneries purchase cotton from the project
area, and cotton seed is sold back to farmers or to oil expellers.
III. THE PROJECT
3.1         The proposed six-year project (FY93-98) would cover a command area of
104,774 ha in Punjab province and include : (i) Water Conservation Measures
(installation of interceptor drains, canal lining, improvement of watercourses);
(ii) Surface Drainage; (iii) Irrigation and Drainage Research; (iv) Monitoring
and Evaluation of project impact; and (v) Technical Assistance and Training,
field trials for subsurface drainage and funding for preparing a future project.
Proiect Concept and Obiectives
3.2         The project is designed to remove severe vater supply constraints by
improving the delivery efficiency of canals and W/Cs and at the same time
reducing seepage to the groundwater. Improved control through lining of
distributaries and minors, resulting in more equitable distribution of water,
would bring efficient water use within W/C commands. These water conservation
measures combined with surface drainage would be instrumental in lowering the
water table and reducing eventual subc>arface drainage needs. Although precise
quantification of the impact of thcs.c naasures on the groundwater table is
difficult to assess in advance, rs.3T-ces are that on average the proposed
project would cause the water tuoLe in the project area to fall by one to one-
and-half feet (0.30-0.46 m). As a result, upward movement of salts from
groundwater to soils would be reduced by about four tons per acre (on average)
annually due to the lower rate of evaporation from the groundwater table. A
monitoring program to quantify the project impact, evaluate the performance of
proposed interventions and assess the subsurface drainage requirements for phase
2 would be implemented under the project.
3.3         The main objectives of the project are to:  (i) raise agricultural
production, employment and income; (ii) reduce the need for expensive subsurface
drainage and environmentally harmful effects related with such drainage; (iii)
improve the equity of water distribution; (iv) develop models for integrated
irrigated agriculture management involving a "demand based" system and enhanced
farmer participation; and (v) improve the capability of WAPDA and GOPunjab to
plan, implement, operate, and maintain similar projects. The first three
objectives would be achieved by:
(a)      increasing water supply to reduce the gap between crop water demand
and irrigation supply, improving water management, and draining
excess storm water;
(b)      slowing down land deterioration due to waterlogging and salinity
through reduction of seepage losses from irrigation channels and
improvement of on-farm water management; and
(c)      improving availability of agr:cultural inputs and services;



- 17 -
The last two objective would be achieved through applied research, and provision
of technical assistance and training.
Froiect Description
(A) InterceRtor Drains (Base Cost USS 21.98 million).
3.4         Approximately 280 km of horizontal interceptor drai.ns (subsurface
tile drains) would be installed along the Malik and Hakra branches, anc. Sirajwah,
Murad, Khatan and Harunabad distributaries (Annex 1, Table 2). Thesie drains
would intercept a significant part of the seepage from the canals and hence
reduce drainage requirements and provide supplemental water for irrigation. A
single line of drain would be installed on both sides of the channels with the
exception of Malik branch and Murad distributary where drain would be provided
only on the left side. The drains would be installed about 50-150 m from the
canals. Each drain would comprisi of a single line of plastic (PVC or PE)
perforated pipe laid by trenching machines on a 1:2000 slope with river run
gravel envelop to a maximum depth of about 3 m. Pipe diameter would vary from
102 mm to 385 mm, depending on the soil condition, seepage rate, and drain
length. Approximately 153 sumps would be provided, each about 1830 m (6000 feet)
apart with manholes every 305 m (1000 feet), and two drains would discharge into
one sump. Discharge from the sumps would be pumped directly into a watercourse
or returned to the canal. The electric energy for the sump pumps wr-ild be
supplied by a transmission grid of about 230 km of 11 KV lines. Step-down
transformers (about 100) would be installed to provide power to each pump. The
operation of the system would be controlled by a series of automatic devices at
each sump. There would be devices for monitoring the level of water in the
sumps, the amount of sump discharge, and i\  status of operation of each pump.
The recorded data would be transmitted through a power line carrier to a grid
station serving a bank of sumps. Personnel at the grid station can control the
operation of each sump, except when overridden by thermal breakers. For the
design of interceptor drains, a two-dimensional analysis developed by the US
Bureau of Reclamation has been used. Installation of the these drains would be
coordinated with canal lining and watercourse improvement. Base cost of the
component includes cost of civil works, consulting services for design and
supervision, equipment (Annex 5), incremental staff salaries and operating
expenditure required for the implementation.
3.5         The system of interceptor drains would be first installed along the
Hakra and Malik branches. A program satisfactory to the Project Coordination
Committee (para 5.13) would be prepared and implemented for monitoring
performance of the installed drains. Interceptor drains would then be installed
along the remaining channels (Annex 1, Table 2) provided monitoring indicates
that they will perform satisfactorily along the smaller channels as well.
(B)   Lining of Distributaries and Minors (Base Cost USS 18.52 million).
3.6         Approximately 18 channels (Annex 1, Table 3) with original design
discharge of up to 2.83 cumec (100 cusecs) would be lined. The total length of
the lined sections would be about 180 'Km. The actual discharge of most of these
channels is about 20% higher than the design. The lined section would be
designed to carry the actual discharge, and adequate freeboard would be provided
for safe operation. This would result in a slight increase in the capacity to
deliver water. Moghas would be remodelled, canal structures improved, and
control structures provided to meet water management rsquirements. To provide
effective seepage control, the lining would consist of geo-membrane placed on
compacted subgrade and covered with a hard protective cover of concrete slabs



- 18 -
with water tight joints. Trapezoidal sections with side slope of 1:1 for up to
0.85 cumec and 1.5:1 for higher discharge with non-silting velocities would be
used. Channels of up to 0.3 cumec (10 cusecs) capacity would be lined using
precast sections, possibly during the closure periods. Assurances were obtained
that GOP. WAPDA and PID would observe groger specifications and design criteria
and take measures to control quality of construction acceptable to IDA.
3.7         Lining would practically eliminate seepage losses and, as the area is
underlain by SGW, would conserve valuable surface water. Reduction in seepage
would also help in controlling the groundwater table. Improvement in water
control and remodelling of moghas, specially towards the tail-end reaches, would
ensure equitable water delivery to chaks, resulting in an overall increase in
water use efficiency. Increased capacity and improved control would provide
greater flexibility to follow the fluctuations in crop demand in the operation of
the channels. Assurances were obtained from GOP. GOPuniab and PID that adeguate
water supplv would be provided to the proiect area and operation of the channels
would be modified to meet crop water requirements as closely as possible. The
project's research component would provide guidelines for such modifications.
Canal lining would be coordinated with the installation of interceptor drains and
watercourse improvement. The cost estimate for this component includes provision
for lining the smaller channels currently ear-marked for the interceptor drains.
(C)   Watercourse Improvement (Base Cost US5 0.80 million).
3.8         Out of 668 W/Cs in (Annex 1, Table 1) the project area, about 134
have already been improved. A voluntary and participatory program similar to
the OFWN-III would be instituted for the improvement of the remaining
wacercourses. Watercourse improvement would be provided on a first come basis.
It is estimated that about 340 (about 65 percent) watercourses would be improved
under the project. Civil works material would be provided by OFWM-III (Cr. 2245-
PAK, Ln. 3327-PAK), and only the cost of additional field staff, transport and
equipment would be provided by this project. Four additional field teams, having
the same composition as under OFWN-III, would be needed to implement this
component. However, recruitment of new staff would not be necessary as staff
from CWMP (Cr. 1487-PAK), scheduled to ciose by July 1992, would be assigned to
this project.
3.9         OFWM-III specifications, design criteria, and quality control
procedures would be followed in W/C improvement. Precision land leveling of
approximately 1200 ha, OFWM demonstration centers, training of 50 OFWM field
staff and 40 agriculture extension personnel would also be provided. Provision
has been made for approximately 60 staff-months of local supervisory consultants
for verification of design, quantity and quality of civil works. Terms of
reference for the supervisory consultants would be the same as under OFWM-III.
Since OFWM-III is expected to close in FY95, assurances were obtained from GOP.
GOPuniab and PAD that improvement of watercourses in the project area would be
completed bX June 30. 1995. W/C improvement would be coordinated with
installation of interceptor drains and canal lining.
(D) Surface Drainage System (Base Cost USM 7.05 million)
3.10        Surface Drains.  At present, WAPDA has planned 16 surface drains of
about 308 km length in the project area, and design of most of these drains has
been completed. Construction of the drains and evaporation ponds is divided into
12 contracts. A list of these contracts and their status is in Annex 1, Table 4.
Due to shortage of funds, progress on construction of the surface drains has been
limited. Since timely completion of the drains is essential for achieving



- 19 -
project objectives, GOP requested that construction of remaining drains be
included in the project. Therefore, drains for which construction contracts are
not yet awarded would be included in the project. Assurances were obtained from
GOP and WAPDA that work under the on-going contracts (number SC-1. SC-2. SC-3.
SC-4. NC-7. NC-8 and NC12) would be coordinated with construction of the rest of
the drainage system under this project. Review of the existing surface drainage
plans revealed that some of the area requiring surface drainage is not adequately
covered. Therefore, nine additional drains of 38 km length would be included
under this project. The total length of surface drains in the project area would
thus be 352 km, of which 159 km would be financed under the project (Annex 1,
Table 5 and 6).
3.11        Surface drains would be open, unlined channels with minimum width of
4 feet and side slopes of 1 vertical to 2.5 horizontal. Mild side slopes are
adopted to reduce sloughing because soil in the area is sandy. Bed slopes would
conform to the topography of the area. Drains would be generally deep enough
allowing drainage of the maximum number of depressions, collection of some
subsurface water, and ensuring minimum seepage of saline effluent if discharged
into these drains by the subsurface drainage system envisaged under Phase 2.
3.12        Drainage Effluent Disposal.  The volume of surface drainage effluent
varies from year to year depending upon the intensity of storms in the monsoon
season. The maximum is estimated to be about 47,300 acre feet based on the
highest recorded storms in 1978. The salt concentration of the drainage effluent
is estimated to range from 600 to 1,000 ppm. The effluent would, therefore, be
usable for agriculture. Since the project area does not have a gravity outlet to
the sea or to the Sutlej river, the surface drains would discharge into two
natural depressions (tobas), Khanduwala and Thulanwala, located in the southwest
of the project area in the Cholistan desert. These tobas are approximately 15 km
from irrigated land and some 13 km from the recently discovered confined fresh
groundwater aquifer at Mojgarh/Fort Abbas. The Khanduwala toba covers an area of
1700 ha (4200 acres) and has a storage capacity of about 43,000 acre feet. This
would provide sufficient capacity to hold the maximum estimated volume of
effluent (1978 storms). A portion of the Thulanwala Toba would be used only in
the event of extremely high storms. A program to use water from the surface
drains and tobas for agricultural purposes would be developed under the research
component of the project.
(E)   Field Trials & Monitoring for Phase 2 (Base Cost USS3.25 million).
3.13        To facilitate the preparation of future subsurface drainage systems,
funding would be provided for field trials for subsurface drainage, monitoring
and evaluation, data gathering, research and development of regional groundwater
model. The need for subsurface drainage in the project area would be assessed
after completion of the proposed measures based on the monitoring and evaluation
results. However, envisaged activities would be useful for the preparation of
drainage projects in the Indus basin and would provide answers to several
important questions in the drainage sector.
3.14        Field Trials for Subsurface Drainage.       The proposed field trials
are designed to test subsurface drainage parameters and synthetic fabric material
to be used as envelope. The drainage paramsters such as drainage coefficient,
drain spacing, and drain depth would be tested in the primary fields of the trial
areas, whereas testing of synthetic fabric envelopes would be done in separate
plots adjacent to the primary fields. About three to six trial sites ranging
from about 60 ha (150 acres) to 405 ha (1000 acres) would be selected covering
all soil types in the project area. The test drains would be laid at an average



- 20 -
depth of 1.7 m (5.5 feet) and at 2.4 m (8.0 feet). Drain spacing would range
from 92 m (300 feet) to 275 m (900 feet) depending on soil type and drain depth.
The drains woule. be tested for S (estimated drains spacing), 0.5 S and 2 S at the
same site with an appropriate buffer zone between each layout pattern. River-run
gravel envelope would be provided for the drains used to test the drainage
parameters. For testing the synthetic fabric envelope, at every site one drain
of 610 m (2000 feet) length would be installed with fabric envelope and sand, and
another with fabric envelope only. Observation wells would be provided to
measure water table fluctuations.
3.15        The field trials would provide basis of subsurface drainage research,
such as drainage parameters, suitable depths for drain pipes, construction
methods for pipe drains etc. A database and information system would be prepared
and models to simulate the groundwater and salt balance and transport would be
developed. Further details are in Annex 2.
3.16        Monitoring of Land and Water Conditions.  To assess the effect of
water conservation measures (lining and interceptor drains) and surface drainage,
the project would provide for detailed monitoring of land and water conditions.
Monitoring would include fluctuations in the water table, and quality of
groundwater and surface drainage water, soil salinity and other hydrological
parameters. The fresh groundwater potential in the project area would be
assessed and methods for safe extraction would be proposed. Remote sensing
technology would be used to the extent possible. Overall monitoring activities
are outlined in Annex 3.
(F)   Irrijation and Drainage Research (Base Cost USS 4.66 million).
3.17        A research component is included in the project in order to provide
quantitative information to specific planning and implementation questions of
relevance to this and other projects in irrigation and drainage. Pakistan has a
long history of research in irrigated agriculture and full use of this research
is being made in the present project. More research is needed, however, because
of the specificity of the project site and also because previous research in
irrigation and drainage has often been fragmented, yielding results that are
sometimes contradictory and often cannot be directly applied to field conditions.
3.18        The overall objective of the research component is to refine the
critical elements in the planning and implementation of irrigation and drainage
projects in the Eastern Sadiqia region. Particular emphasis will be placed on
research questions that will integrate the improvement of water use efficiency
with improved water and land management in the project area. The results
obtained will also be relevant to other areas of Pakistan. The research component
consists of the following five subcomponents: (i) evaluation of the impact of
waterlogging and salinity on crop production; (ii) introduction of improved
technology for planning and monitoring irrigation and drainage projects, and land
and water conditions in general; (iii) assessing performance of different types
of canal lining; (iv) improvement o- irrigation management with a view to match
irrigation supply with crop water demand that is integrated irrigated agriculture
management; and (v) Agriculture extension support. The four themes of research
should be seen as organical y linked and close interaction will be maintained for
the exchange of data and re ults. The extension activities would focus on the
specific needs of the project area and would be instrumental in wider application
of the results of waterlogging and salinity research.
3.19        The topics included in the research component are generally
consistent with previous findings and recommendations of technical and scientific



- 21 -
panels who have studied the question of irrigation and drainage research in
Pakistan13. These setivities would be coordinated with rhe other components of
the project, specially the monitoring of land and water conditions and project
impact. In order to implement pilot programs under the integrated irrigated
agriculture component, assurance has been obtained that the Directorate of CWN.
in association with the PID. would submit a draft report containing Rroposals for
formalizing farmers organizations. and conceptual design of a demand based svstem
for the Bank's review by September 30. 1993 and the proposed pilot programs would
be implemented during the project imolementation period. For further details of
irrigation and drainage research component see Annex 4.
(G)   Monitorine & Evaluation of Project Imoact(Base Cost US$0.31 million).
3.20        The project would include a program for monitoring and evaluation of
project impact. Required agro-economic data would be collected under this
component. Information on physical conditions gathered for Phase 2 preparation
would be utilized in the evaluation. A baseline survey covering agro-economic,
social, and water management conditions prior to the project was completed in
1989 by WMED, WAPDA (para 2.5). The monitoring and evaluation would include: (a)
impact evaluation in terms of agricultural production, income and employment,
situation of small farmers, and secondary effects on the regional economy; (b)
cropping pattern and cropping intensities, and net farm income; and (c) impact on
water use, and equity in distribution.
(H)   Technical Assistance and Training (Base Cost USS 0.78 million14)
3.21        The project would engage interna-ionally reputed specialists to
establish and review design criteria, specifications and construction methods for
canal lining and interceptor drains; advise in the formulation of research and
monitoring programs; and assist in project management and overall planning.
Training would include the study of modern construction techniques, project
planning and management. Visiting experts would conduct short-term training
courses. The project would also fund short term overseas training for project
staff.
3.22        In addition to the specialist consultants, the project would provide
consulting services for preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents and
construction supervision of interceptor drains, surface drains, canal lining,
OFWN, phase preparation and research component. Assurances were obtained from
WAPDA. PID. and PAD that consultants would be recruited following Bank suidelines
under terms of reference acceRtable to IDA. Assurances were also obtained that
the evaluation of the proRosals received for the consulting services would be
completed and furnished to IDA prior to Credit effectiveness.
13. See for example: IWASRI/UNDP. 1989. "Evaluation of Waterlogging and
Salinity Research in Pakistan." Publication No. 7. International Waterlogging and
Salinity Research Institute. Lahore; and Planning Commiss'on. 1978. "Research
Issues Affecting Agricultural Development Policy -The report of the Indus Basin
research assessment group" Planning Division, Government of Pakistan.
14     Cost of specialist consultants and training only.  Cost of design and
supervisory consultants is included in the respective project components.



- 22 -
(I)   Future Project Preparation (Base Cost USS 1.00 million).
3.23        The project would provide funds for future project preparation.  If
monitoring and evaluation of Phase-i shows that some areas would still require
subsurface drainage, these funds would be used to prepare detailed designs for
subsur-face drainage. The dcsign of the phase 2 would be greatly facilitated by
the drainage research undertaken in the pro4ect. Funds not needed for
preparation of tubsurface drainage component of the second phase would be used to
prepare another water sector project.
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
4.1         Total project cost over the six-year period (July 1992-June 1998) is
estimated to be Rs 1,944 million (US$ 70.65 million equivalent) with a foreign
exchange component of Rs 473.49 million or 24%. Estimates are based on June 1992
prices and include about Rs 208 million in taxes and duties. The project cost
suimmary is presented in Tables 4.1 and 4.2 and details are given in Annex 6.
Cost of interceptor drains is based on consultants' estimates. Cost of canal
lining is based on quantities estimated by the Punjab Irrigation Department and
prevailing market prices. Cost of the on-farm water management component
includes the recurring costs of additional field staff only; cost of civil works
would be borne by the OFWM-III Project. Cost of surface drains are based on
WAPDA's estimates prepared for the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Remaining (SCARP VIII)
project. Cost of monitoring and Phase 2 preparation is based on the feasibility
report by WAPDA and consultants. Physical contingencies are estimated to be 8%
for interceptor drains and monitoring and Phase 2 preparation, and 10% for canal
lining and surface drains. Total physical contingencies are about 7% of base
costs. Price contingencies are 13% of base cost plus physical contingencies
using estimated annual inflation rates shown in the footnote to Table 4.2.
Table 4.1: COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
Rupees (Million)         USS (Million)    Percent
Foreign
Local  Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange
Interceptor Drains          403.64  156.86  560.49  15.83   6.15  21.98   28.0
Canal Lining                354.86  117.30  472.16  13.92   4.60  18.52   24.8
On Farm Water Management    17.86    2.54   20.40   0.70   0.10   0.80   12.5
Surface Drains              149.79   30.07  179.86   5.87   1.18   7.05   16.7
Monitoring & Phase 2 Prep   58.88   23.91   82.79   2.31   0.94   3.25   28.9
Irrigation Drainage Res.   103.87   14.87  118.74   4.07   0.58   4.66   12.5
Monitoring & Evaluation        7.80    0.00    7.80   0.31   0.00   0.31    0.0
Technical Assist. & Trng.   14.08    5.92   20.00   0.55   0.23   0.78   29.6
Future Proj. Preparation    14.55   10.95   25.50   0.57   0.43   1.00   42.9
Total Baseline Costs       1125.33  362.41 1487.74  44.13  14.21  58.34   24.4
Physical Contingencies      77.35   25.65  103.00   3.03   1.01   4.04   24.9
Price Contingencies /a    267.94   85.43  353.38   6.27   2.00   8.27   24.2
Total project cost /b      1470.63  473.49 1944.12  53.44  17.22  70.65   24.4



- 23 -
Table 4.2: COST BY SUMMARY ACCOUNTS
Rupees (Million)         USS (Million)    Percent
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Exchange
Civil Works                 854.34  288.39 1142.73  33.50  11.31  44.81   25.2
Consulting Services          83.45   53.78  137.23   3.27   2.11   5.38   39.2
Admin. & Operat. Expendi.  171.83    4.53  176.36   6.74   0.18   6.92    2.6
Equipment                     7.56    7.56   15.13   0.30   0.30   0.59   50.0
Vehicles                      8.15    8.15   16.30   0.32   0.32   0.64   50.0
Total Baseline Cost        1125.33  362.41 1487.74  44.13  14.21  58.34   24.4
Physical Contingencies   77.35   25.65  103.00   3.03   1.01   4.04   24.9
Price Contingencies /a  267.94   85.43  353.38   6.27   2.00   8.27   24.2
Total Project Cost /b      1470.63  473.49 1944.12  53.44  17.22  70.65   24.4
/a Based on following inflation rates (December 12, 1991)
FY93    FY94   FY95   FY96  FY97   FY98
Local             6.0     6.0    6.0    6.0   6.0    6.0
Foreign           3.4     3.9    3.85   3.8   3.8    3.8
/b Includes taxes and duties of about Rs 208 m or US$ 7.6 m equivalent.
Financing
4.2         The IDA Credit of SDR 39.6 million (US$ 54.20 million) would finance
about 86% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties or 77% of the total
cost. GOP/GOPunjab would finance the remaining US$ 16.45 million equivalent,
including taxes and duties, or 23% of total cost. Approval of the project's PC-i
by the Executive Council of the National Economic Committee (ECNEC) would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Table 4.3 shows the proposed financing plan.
Table 4.3: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Total   GOP/          IDA      IDA
Cost   GOPuniab                 X
Civil Works                          55.44     13.86    41.58         75
Consulting Services                   6.12      1.22      4.90        80
Administration and Operating Exp.   7.80         0.78     7.02        90
Equipment                             0.62      0.25      0.37        60
Vehicles                              0.67      0.33      0.33        50
TOTAL                                70.65     16.45    54.20         77
Procurement
4.3         Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4 below.  Civil
works for interceptor drains, surface drains, canal lining and field trials for
drainage would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
following IDA guidelines. To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works



- 24 -
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT
(US$ million) /a
Procurement Method      Total Cost
ICB     LJB    Othe
CIVIL WORKS
Interceptor Drains                 23.90                       23.90
(17.93)                     (17.93)
Canal lining                       20.61                       20.61
(15.46)                     (15.46)
Surface drains                      6.29    1.50/c              7.79
(4.72)  (1.12)              (5.84)
Monitoring and Phase 2
Preparation                     2.30              0.50/b    2.80
(1.73)           (0.37)    (2.10)
Irrigation & Drainage Research              0.34/c              0.34
(0.25)              (0.25)
Sub-total                            53.10    1.84      0.50     55.44
(39.84)  (1.37)   (0.37)   (41.58)
Consulting Services                   6.12                        6.12
(4.90)                      (4.90)
Administration & Operating                              7.80/d    7.80
Expenditure                          (7.02)    (7.02)
Equipment                                     0.62/e               0.62
(0.37)              (0.37)
Vehicles                              0.67                         0.67
(0.33)                      (0.33)
Total                                59.89    2.46      8.30      70.65
(45.07)  (1.74)   (7.39)   (54.20)
a/ Includes taxes, duties and contingencies. Figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts financed by IDA.
/b WAPDA force account for monitoring components.
/c Scattered sites, ICB not appropriate.
/d Incremental staff. salaries, and operating expenditure.
/e Consists of relatively small and non-homogenous packages unsuitable for ICB.



- 25 -
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of (a) not less
than US$ 10.00 million in the case of interceptor drains and canal lining, and
(b) not less than US$ 3.0 million in the case of surface drains. Construction of
small size additional surface drains (AD-1 to AD-9), estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of US$ 200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of US$ 1.5 million would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB). Vehicles required for various project components
would also be procured through ICB. The Bank's sample bidding documents (SBD)
for procurement of works and goods would be used. Office, surveying, flow
measuring and other equipment, consisting of relatively small and unrelated
packages that would not attract foreign bidders, estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$ 50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of US$ 620,000 may be procured through LCB. Minor civil works in
the irrigation and drainage research component scattered in the area, not
suitable for ICB, would be procured through LCB. Tender documents for
procurements exceeding US$ 20,000 equivalent for equipment, US$ 100,000 for
vehicles, and USS 200,000 equivalent for works would be subject to prior review
by IDA. Consultants for various project components would be selected following
Bank guidelines for use of consultants.
Disbursements
4.4         Proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the following
expenditure categories:
Cate orv                             Percentage to be Financed
(i) Civil Works.                           75% of expenditure.
(ii) Consulting services.                   80% of expenditure.
(iii) Incremental staff salaries,            90% of expenditures, and 100% of
allowances and operating               expenditure for training.
expenditure, and training.
(iv) Equipment and Vehicles                 100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and, 60% of
local expenditures for items
procured locally.
4.5         Disbursements for contracts of civil works below US$ 200,000
equivalent, equipment below US$ 20,000 equivalent and vehicles below US$ 100,000
equivalent and all incremental staff salaries would be made against certified
statements of expenditures (SOEs). Full documentation would be retained by
implementing agencies for review by supervision missions and would be subject to
audit by independent auditors. All other contracts would be fully documented.
To facilitate payment of eligible expenditures one Special Account each would be
established by General Manager (Water) Central WAPDA, Chief Engineer Coordinatilon
PID and Punjab Agriculture Department (PAD) with initial deposits of US$ 2.0
million, US$ 1.0 million and US$ 0.15 million respectively, representing
reimbursable portion of estimated expenditures for four months. The PAD Special
Account would meet the requirements of OFWM, Agriculture extension and
Directorate of CWM. The credit proceeds would be disbursed over six and a half
years. The disbursement profile is based on the experience gained under similar
projects in Punjab. Since all project activities are to be carried out in one
contiguous area, it is expected that project implementation would proceed



- 26 -
smoothly and faster than projects that have components located in all the four
provinces. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 7. The Credit
Closing date would be December 31, 1998.
4.6   Accounts and Audit   All implementing agencies (WAPDA, PID and PAD) would
maintain separate accounts for the project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that: (a) orolect accounts of all agencies. including Special
Accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA: and
(b) audit reports would be sent to IDA within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year. Audit reports would include separate opinions of the auditors on
(i) reimbursements claimed on the basis of SOEs and (ii) operation of the Special
Accounts.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION. MAINTENANCE AND COST RECOVERY
Institutional Arrangements
5.1         Implementing Agencies.  The project would be implemented by WAPDA,
and the Punjab Irrigation (PID) and Agriculture (PAD) Departments. The proposed
organization is shown in Chart-l and the roles of the implementing agencies are
described below.
5.2         WAPDA would be responsible for:  (i) construction of interceptor and
surface drainage systems; (ii) monitoring and Phase 2 preparation (field trials
for subsurface drainage, monitoring of land and water conditions, and assessment
of fresh groundwater potential); (iii) research on the impact of waterlogging and
salinity on crop production, performance of different types of lining, and
improved technology for planning and monitoring; (iv) monito3ring and evaluation
of project impact; and (v) coordination among the implementing agencies.
5.3         The responsibility for interceptor and surface drains would be
assigned to a Project Director (Drainage) headquartered at Bahawalnagar and
assisted by four Executive Engineers (XENs) (two existing, and two additional for
the interceptor drains). The Project Director (Drainage) would be responsible
for:
(i)   assisting in the recruitment of supervisory consultants, procurement of
vehicles and equipment for the interceptor drainage and surface drainage
system;
(ii)   carrying out condition surveys of channels to be provided with
interceptor drains in collaboration with WAPDA's Planning and
Investigation Organization (P&I);
(iii)   reviewing detailed designs and tender documents prepared by the
consultants prior to their submission to IDA;
(iv)   assisting in awarding and administering contracts for interceptor and
surface drain construction;
(v)   monitoring the impact of interceptor drains;
(vi)   coordinating and consolidating work plans and quarterly progress reports
for individual project components for submission to the Project
Coordination Committee and IDA; and



- 27 -
(vii)   maintaining project accounts (including Special Account) for the
activities under his responsibility, preparing withdrawal applications,
and arranging timely submission of accounts to the Director General
Audit WAPDA.
5.4         The Project Director Planning (Water) Central. WAPDA would have
overall responsibility for field trials for preparation of Phase 2.  The
International Waterloggine and Salinity Research Institute (IWASRI) would be
responsible for research on: (i) tile drainage at the field trial sites; and (ii)
comparison of different types of lining. For tile drainage research, IWASRI in
cooperation with Netherlands Research Assistance Project (NRAP) would provide
supervisory staff, analyze data, prepare reports, meet the cost of operation and
maintenance of vehicles, and supply some equipment for the field trials. It
would coordinate its activities with the Project Director Planning (Water)
Central, WAPDA's SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) and the International
Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI-Pakistan). For canal lining research,
IWASRI would sub-contract with a suitable organization.
5.5         SMO would be responsible for monitoring of land and water conditions
(including the field trial sites) and assessment of fresh groundwater potential
in the project area. It would collaborate with the Project Director (Drainage),
Project Director Planning (Water) Central, IWASRI, P&I and the Watercourse
Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (WMED).
5.6         P&I would be responsible for research on the impact of waterlogging
and salinity on crop production and the use of improved technology for planning
and monitoring. P&I would coordinate its activities with the Project Director
(Drainage), Project Director Planning (Water) Central, IWASRI and SM0, and
collaborate closely with IIMI-Pakistan.
5.7         PID would be responsible for canal lining and collaborating with the
Directorate of CWM for the research component on Irrigated Agriculture
Management. An organizational structure similar to ISRP-II (Cr. 1888-PAK) would
be established. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by the Chief Engineer
Coordination would be established at Lahore. A Project Director (Lining)
assisted by two XENs, posted in the project area, would be responsible for canal
lining. Each XEN would be assisted by three subdivisional officers (SDOs), nine
sub-engineers and support staff. The PIU would be responsible for:
(i)   recruiting supervisory consultants, and procuring vehicles and equipment
for the canal lining component;
(il)   carrying out condition surveys of channels to be lined;
(iii)   reviewing detailed designs and tender documents prepared by the
supervisory consultants prior to their submission to IDA;
(iv)   awarding and administering contracts for canal lining;
(v)   coordinating closely with the OFWM field teams on designs of moghas and
watercourses, and maintaining equity of water deliveries following
lining and remodelling of moghas;
(vi)   collaborating with CWM Directorate on the research for Irrigated
Agriculture Management;
(vii)   preparing and submit:zmng annual work plans and quarterly progress



- 28 -
reports to the Project Director (Drainage) for consolidation;
(viii)   monitoring impact of canal lining on:  groundwater table; seepage and
other conveyance losses; equity of distribution; hydraulic and
structural stability; and level of O&M costs; and
(ix)   maintaining project accounts (including the Special Account) for the
activities under its responsibility, preparing withdrawal applications,
and arranging timely submission of accounts to the office of the
Director General Audit Punjab.
5.8         The Puniab Agriculture Department would be responsible for
watercourse improvement, extension activities, and research on Irrigated
Agriculture Management.
5.9         The Directorate General of OFNN would be responsible for watercourse
improvement and other OFWM activities, recruitment of supervisory consultants and
procurement of equipment and vehicles for this component.   The Directorate would
designate a Coordinator for the project and assign four engineering and four
agronomy field teams to the project area to improve watercourses and provide
water management advice as envisaged under OFWM-III.
5.10        The Directorate General of Agriculture Extension (DGAE) is
responsible for all extension activities in Punjab under the ongoing T&V program.
The DDA Bahawalnagar is in charge of extension activities in the project area.
In addition to ongoing activities under the second phase of the Punjab
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 1762-PAK), the DDA
would be responsible for implementing project specific activities with the
assistance of the EADAs, AOs and FAs posted in the project area. Specifically,
the DDA Bahawalnagar would be responsible for:
(i)   maintaining close liaison with the Agricultural Extension and Adaptive
Research Project as well as the Second Agricultural Research Project
(Cr. 2154-PAR) to ensure that diagnostic surveys and area specific on-
farm research are carried out and appropriate extension messages are
developed for the project area;
(ii)   procuring audiovisual equipment and vehicles envisaged under the
project;
(iii)   preparing video tapes of extension messages in collaboration with the
Directorate General of Agriculture Information (DGAI) and the OFWM
Training Institute on water management on the farm, and with IWASRI, P&I
and SNO on vaterlogging and salinity, and drainage;
(iv)   arranging audiovisual shows (e.g., on land reclamation, control of
vaterlogging and salinity) in selected villages and demonstrating the
same techniques at demonstration centers in coordination with the Senior
Subject Matter Specialist (SSMS) Vehari and the responsible OFWM
agronomy field team(s); and
(v)   collaborating with P&I (WAPDA), OFWM, Directorate of CWN and PID staff
in encouraging farmers to improve water management, maintain equity in
water deliveries after canal lining and outlet remodelling, apply water
according to crop needs, and participate in development of seed
multiplication programs.



- 29 -
5.11        The Directorate of CWM would be responsible for research on Irrigated
Agriculture Management.  It would assign two interdisciplinary teams headed by a
sub-project Manager, who would be an agricultural economist.  Each team would
include one social organizer, one engineer, one agronomist, and one hydrologist.
Staff of required disciplines not available with the Directorate of CWM would be
recrutted. The Directorate of OWM, in association with PID, would be responsible
for:
(i)   organizing and training farmer groups, including federations of WUAs;
(ii)   carrying out diagnostic surveys and analysis;
(iii)   reviewing existing legislation, including, inter alia, WUAs
Ordinance/Act, the Canal and Drainage Act and the Warabandi Laws;
formulating amendments or new legal instruments to formalize farmer
institutions and define their role in O&M; and exploring appropriate
substitutes for Warabandi and alternative arrangements for assessSng and
collecting water charges;
(iv)   carrying out resebrch, and preparit.g conceptual designs of canals,
structures, and watercourse works, and operational plans for a demand
based irrigation system in collaboration with PID, OFWM and farmer
groups;
(v) reviewing progress of construction of civil works and structures for the
demand based system, and awarding and administering contracts for farmer
community centers and seed storage facilities;
(vi)   overseeing and facilitating operation of the demand based system and
training farmers in assuming O&M responsibilities;
(vii)   advising farmers on conjunctive use of ground and surface water where
feasible and organizing farmers groups for joint utilization of water
from, and O&M of, interceptor drain sumps;
(viii)   promoting farmer seed multiplication programs and facilitating farmers
in obtaining basic seed from the Punjab Seed Corporation, and research
and extension farms; and
(ix)   arranging for large scale demonstrations (full watercourse trials) to
facilitate transfer of technology and introduction of improved water
management and cultural practices.
5.12        Assurances were obtained from GOP. GOPuniab and WAPDA that all
implementing agencies would furnish annual work programs to IDA for its
concurrence by March 31 for the following fiscal year starting from FY93
5.13        Pro1ect Coordination.  At the project level, the existing Project
Coordination Committee (PCC), established under the Fourth Drainage Project (Cr.
1375-PAK), would be responsible for coordination among the implementing agencies
and facilitating implementation. The PCC would be chaired by the General Manager
(Water) Central, WAPDA, and have the following members: (i) from WAPDA: Chief
Engineer, Rahim Yar Khan, Project Director (Drainage), Project Director Planning
(Water) Central, Chief Engineer P&I, Chief Engineer SMO, and Director General
IWASRI; (ii) from PID: Chief Engineer Coordination, and Project Director
(Lining); and (iii) from PAD: Director Field and Area Coordinator, OFWM, DDA
Bahawalnagar and Director CWM. Representatives of farmers (e.g., chairmen of



-s  -
WUAs) and District Administration would be invited to the PCC meetings as
required. The PCC would meet quarterly and the Project Director (Drainage) would
be its secretary. The main functions of the PCC would be to: (i) monitor
progress and coordinate scheduling of the various project components; (ii)
consolidate and review work plans and progress reports for submission to IDA;
(iii) make appropriate recommendations to GOPunjab and WAPDA regarding budgetary
allocations and other matters; and (iv) review status of compliance with various
project covenants, take appropriate action to resolve issues, and report
unresolved issues to the Policy Committee.
5.14        At the provincial level, the existing Policy Committee would provide
policy guidance and steer project implementation by providing inter-agency
coordination at the highest level. It would be chaired by the Chairman Planning
and Development Board and would have the following members: Secretaries of
Irrigation and Power, Agriculture, and Finance, GOPunjab, and General Manager
(Water) Central and Project Director Planning (Water) Central, WAPDA. The Policy
Committee would meet wheneve.1 issues requiring resolution are submitted for its
consideration and the Project Director (Drainage) would act as its secretary.
The main functions of the Policy Committee would be to: (i) resolve issues not
settled by the Project Coordination Committee; (ii) ensure provision of adequate
budgetary allocations for project implementation as well as operation and
maintenance (O&M); an; (iii) formulate and implement policies to enhance
beneficiary particitation and recovery of O&M and investment costs.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
5.15        The main objective of the project is to increase agricultural
production through conservation and better management of water and reduction of
waterlogging and salinity. To determine whether this objective is being met, an
M&E program would be carried out that would provide:
(i)   an internal management information system for the implementing agencies,
to facilitate efficient and environmentally safe implementation; and
(i)   an independent external evaluation of the project's impact and the
degree to which it is meeting its objectives.
5.16        Internal Monitoring.  The implementing agencies would be responsible
for collecting and reviewing information on physical and financial progress and
impact of their respective components. They would submit periodic progress
reports to the PCC and the Policy Committee. Feedback from external M&E and
various supervisory consultants would also keep project management informed about
current and potential implementation problems and the project's impact. This
would enable the implementing agencies to take timely action to facilitate
implementation and to make necessary adjustments in project approach or design of
individual cuoponents to ensure project objectives are met.
5.17        External N&E.  Responsibility for external M&E would be assigned to
WAPDA's SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) in collaboration with WMED,
Environmental Unit and IWASRI. SMO would provide overall coordination and have
direct responsibility for:
(i)   monitoring physical features such as groundwater elevations and quality,
water quality in interceptor and surface drains, soil salinity, and
fresh groundwater pockets; and



- 31 -
(ii)   monitoring of the evaporation ponds and adjacent areas15, including (a)
water quality and build-up of toxic minerals (e.g. selenium, arsenic and
lead); (b) vectors such as mosquitos; and (c) impact of water table on
agricultural lands surrounding the ponds.
The basic information collected would be used for both Phase 2 p.eparation and
evaluation of the physical impact of the project. SMO would develop a monitoring
plan to establish frequency of observations, intensity of network, manpower
requirements, and evaluation procedures. Remote sensing would be used where
appropriate.
5.18        MED would be assigned responsibility for agro-economic M&E.
Building upon the Baseline Survey carried out in 1989,16 WMED would initiate
project-wide monitoring immediately after project approval to obtain baseline
information not already available. It would also select a number of indicators
for: (i) determining the rate of input utilizatior (e.g., seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, water deliveries, farm labor, draft power); and (ii) monitoring
outputs, including (a) hydraulic measurements in lined channels to determine
delivery losses and irrigation/application efficiencies, (b) equity of delivery
in lined channels and watercourses, taking into account effects of supply
variations in upstream channels (branch and main canals), (c) cropping
intensities, cropping patterns, yields and production, net farm incomes and cash
flows, and (d) WUA operations. Changes in the selected indicators would be
assessed and documented on a bi-annual basis and reported to the implementing
agenci-.s. This would enable these agencies to make appropriate adjustments in
the design or scheduling of individual components and improve delivery of
services.
5.19        Assurances were obtained from GOP and WAPDA that the SMO would submit
an overall monitoring and evaluation Rrogram defining Drecise resnonsibilities of
various agencies (along with draft inter- and intra-agency agreements) and
providing detailed scope of work for IDA approval by December 31. 1992.
gReration. Maintenance and Cost Recovery
b.20        Institutional Responsibilities.  WAPDA would be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the interceptor and surface drains for two years
after the completion of works. After this trial period, facilities would be
handed over to PID if their overall performance is satisfactory. Operation and
mainte:ance cost of surface and interceptor drains is estimated to be about Rs 20
mil.ion per year (FY92 prices). O&M responsibility for the irrigation channels
is vested in PID, which is not expected to require additional funding as O&M
requirement for lined channels would be less than that for unlined channels.
Otner facilities, transport and equipment would be operated and maintained by the
department to which such items are assigned.
5.21        Budget and Cost Recovery Policies.  Although the provincial O&M cost
for irrigation and drainage systems have averaged about 9% of the annual
15/ SMO would seek guidance from WAPDA's environmental unit, and take into
account findings and recommendations of the ongoing Drainage Environmental
Assessment Study, and various health organizations, as necessary.
16/ Agro-Economic Evaluation, Baseline Survey, Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project
Phase-I & II SCARP VIII, Watercourse Monitoring & Evaluation Directorate,
Planning and Investigation Organization, WAPDA, October 1989.



- 32 -
provincial budgets over the last five years, the condition of irrigation and
drainage systems are far from satisfactory. About 50% of total O&M allocations
are used for the O&M of the FGW TWs. Consistent with current GOP policies the
Provinces are committed not to undertake new investments or replacement of TWs
for public operation in FGW areas. A SCARP transition program to privatize FGW
TWs is ongoing in the provinces of Punjab and Sindh. The GOPunjab agreed to
expedite the privatization plans and divest itself of the ownership of the FGW
TWs completely by July 1997. To this end, another SCARP transition Projec,., the
preparation of which will start next year as envisaged under the Second SCARP
Transition Project would provide continuing assistance in these efforts.
However, to ensure availability of adequate funds for maintaining the irrigation
and drainage systems 5ncluding the project facilities, it is essential that the
GOPunjab makes adequate budgetary allocations to PID. Assurance was obtained
that Punjab will discuss with IDA by February 15 of each fiscal year beginning
with FY93. the level of funding required for operation and maintenance of the
surface irrigation, fresh groundwater tubewells and drainage facilities in Puniab
for the following fiscal year. and based on mutually agreed funding levels.
provide adequate budgetary allocations.
5.22        Cost recovery for irrigation and drainage systems has been a key
issue in the Bank's ongoing dialc;ue with GOP and GOPunjab.  In Punjab, the
recoveries from water charges are far below O&M allocations. To achieve full
recovery of 0SM allocations in the Punjab, including the project area, assurance
was obtained that. Puniab shall. through water and/or drainage charges:
(i)   by July 1. 1993 achieve a recovery level of at least 35% of the annual 0&_J
cost of its surface irrigation. fresh groundwater tubewell and drainage
facilities:
(ii)  by July 1. 1994. achieve a recovery level of at least 45% of such cost:
(iii) by July 1. 1995. achieve a recovery level of at least 55% of such cost:
(iv)  by July 1. 1996. achieve a recovery level of at least 70% of such cost:
(v)  by July 1. 1997. achieve a recovery level of at least 90% of such cost: and
(vi)  by July 1. 1998. achieve and thereafter maintain a recovery level of 100%
of such cost.
5.23        It is estimated that at full development of the project facilities,
O&M costs at 1992 nrices would be about Rs 240 per ha of cca, or Rs 150 per
cropped ha or Rs 22 per acre foot of water delivered at the watercourse head. To
fully recover these O&M costs, water charges would account for less than 4% of
crop production costs and less than 5% of farm income, which is well within the
farmers' capaclty to pay.
Imolementation Schedule
5.24        The PC-i document of the project has been approved by the Provincial
Development Working Party (PDWP), WAPDA and Central Development Working Party
(CDWP) and is scheduled to be submitted for ECNEC approval at the next meeting
expected to be held in July 1992. To meet the local cost component, budgetary
allocations have been made in the FY93 budget. Project Director Drainage (WAPDA)
and most of associated staff are already in place and Project Director Lining
(PID) and associated staff would be appointed by July 31, 1992. With these steps
and a "project launch" workshop in Lahore the project activities would take-off



- 33 -
rapidly after the Board approval.
5.25        The project would be implemented over six years, FY93-FY98 (see Annex
8). The first year would be spent mainly in appointing consultants, preparing
final designs and tender documents for civil works, and procuring equipment and
vehicles. About 5% of the civil works would be completed in the first year.
Design and preparation work for the surface drains is at an advanced stage,
therefore, construction works of this component would proceed relatively faster.
Construction of OFWM works would pick up in the first year and would finish by
FY95. About 8OX of the civil works would be completed during the project years
three through six. Installation of the field trials would finish in third
project year and monitoring will continue over the rest of the implementation
period. Research activities would be spread about evenly over the implementation
period. The proposed supervision plan for IDA, required staff inputs and
expected skill requirements are given in Annex 11.
5.26        Mid-Term Review   In order to evaluate the effectiveness of the
project interventions in achieving project objectives, a mid term review will be
undertaken during the third year of the implementation, but not latter than March
31. 1995. The review would be carried out jointly by WAPDA, GOPunjab, and IDA
according to the terms of reference prepared jointly by WAPIDA and GOPunjab six
months prior to the review which shall be approved by IDA. This mid-term review
would allow opportunity to effect changes in the policy and implementation of the
project which may be desirable based upon experience under the initial operation
of the project and results of monitoring and research.
VI. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES. FARM INCOME
Agricultural ImRact
6.1         General.  The improvements provided under the project would have a
significant impact on crop production and farm income over the entire command
area. Waterlogging and soil salinity in the project area are rep'rted to be
increasing at a rapid rate (para 2.10), which would depress futut. yields.
Sinee, the cost of eivil works for watercourse renovatfon is met by the Third On-
Farm Water Management Project (only incremental cost of implementation is
included in the project), the costs and benefits of watercourse renovation are
excluded. Therefore, the assumed future "without project" situation includes the
effects of OFWM improvements. Furthermore, it is assumed that future yields
without the project (and without OFWM) would not fall because of inereasing
waterlogging and soil salinity, which is a conservative assumption. Production
inereases "with project" would be due to both increased cropping intensity and
inereased yields resulting from: (a) irrigation improvements made possible by
project works, including reliable scheduled deliveries, increased water supply
through reduction of losses, and equitable distribution between head and tail
reaches of channels; (b) control of the groundwater table due to reduced seepage
to the groundwater from canals and rainfall; and (c) reduction of crop losses
from storm flooding through improved surface drainage.
6.2         Based on information provided by the NESPAK/HARZA feasibility report
for the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South) subsurface drainage project, t-o farm
types have been chosen to represent the project: the small farm (3.5 ha), and
the large farm (11 ha). Small farms cover 41% of the project area, while large
farms cover 59X. Of the total number of farms in the project area (about
17,900), nearly 70X are small. Based on farm data collected by the appraisal



- 34 -
mission, presented in the above feasibility report, and complemented by data from
comparable areas elsewhere, a quantitative analysis was carried out using a
component of the Indus Basin Model Revised.17
6.3         Croppi.na Pattern and Intensity.  Table 6.1 summarizes cropped area
and cropping intensities under present, without project (with OFWH), and with
project conditions. Additional water saved due to increased delivery efficiency
would be about 91 thousand acre feet (kaf) annually, of which 42 kaf in rabi and
49 kaf in kharif (see Annex 9, Table 1). This increase would result in both
removal of water stress and increase in cropped area.  Cropping intensity "with
project" on small farms would increase by about 23%, and by about 27.5% on large
farms (about 26% in the total project area).  Total cropped area under the two
major crops, cotton and wheat, would increase by about 20%.
6.4         CroR Yields and Production.  The improved water supply and
groundwater control due to seepage reduction and surface drainage would result in
about 15% increase in yield of cotton, 13% of mustard, rape and sugarcane, and 4%
of wheat. The yield increase of fodder crops would be nominal. The combined
effect of increases in cropped area and yields on production is shown in Table
6.2. Incremental production of cotton and wheat in the total project area (about
105,000 ha cca) is 14,600 tons and 22,400 tons, respectively, at full development
Table 6.1: ESTIMATED CROPPED AREA ('000 ha) AND INTENSITIES (%)
Present         Without Project/a       With Project
Small Large Total    Small Large Total    Small Large Total
Farms Farms Area     Farms Farms Area      Farms Farms Area
Rice (IRRI)        1.7   3.1   4.8       1.8   3.2   5.0      2.1   3.8   5.9
Kharif fodder      5.6   6.2  11.8       5.8   6.3  12.1      6.8   7.7  14.4
Cotton            12.0  19.2  31.2      12.5  19.7  32.1    14.6  23.8  38.4
Rabi fodder        4.7   5.6  10.3       4.9   5.7  10.6      5.7   6.9  12.6
Mustard & rape     2.1   2.5   4.6       2.2   2.5   4.8      2.6   3.1   5.7
Wheat             21.0  31.5  52.6      21.8  32.3  54.2     25.5  39.1  64.6
Sugarcane          4.7   5.6  10.3       4.9   5.7  10.6      5.7   6.9  12.6
TOTAL RABI        32.6  45.1  77.8      33.9  46.3  80.2    39.6  56.0  95.6
TOTAL KHARIF      24.1  34.0  58.1      25.0  34.9  59.8     29.2  42.2  71.4
ANNUAL            56.7  79.1 135.8      58.8  81.1 140.0     68.7  98.2 166.9
Intensities
Rabi            76.0  73.0  74.2    78.9  74.9  76.5       92.1  90.6  91.2
Kharif          56.0  55.0  55.4    58.1  56.4  57.1       67.9  68.3  68.1
Annual         132.0 128.0 129.6   137.0 131.3 133.6    160.0 158.8 159.3
/a   Future with OFWM.
Note:  41% of the project area is assumed to be under small farms (3.5 ha)
and 59% under large farms (11 ha).
(about 37% and 24% over the without project situation). The production increase
in areas under large farms is higher than under small farms, essentially because
of higher input use.   The total value of incremental production in constant FY92
prices would be close to Rs 167 million annually (see Annex 9, Table 2), of which
17/ The Indus Basin Model Revised uses an optimization framework and with input
and output coefficients provides interaction between cropping activities, water use,
and available water supply. Details on the model and its adaptation for the project
are available in the project file.



- 35 -
cotton, wheat and sugarcane would be about Rs 137 million (82%), and fodder
(kharif and rabi) about Rs 21 million (13%).
Table 6.2: ESTIMATED CROP PRODUCTION ('000 tons)
Main OutRuts                   By-Products
Incre-
Without   With  mental           Without    With
Present Project Project  (%)    Present Project  Project
Rice (IRRI)         7.6     7.8     9.3   19.4      13.7     14.1     8.4
Cotton            31.7    39.0    53.6   37.3       25.4     31.2    21.4
Kharif fodder    227.9   235.1   279.6   18.9
Rabi fodder      277.5   286.2   346.6   21.1
Mustard & rape      3.7     3.8     5.1   34.9       2.4      2.4     1.6
Sugarcane        311.2   320.7   433.4   35.1       40.5     41.7    28.2
Wheat             79.8    94.8   117.2   23.7    119.6    142.1    87.9
Marketing and Prices
6.5         Marketing arrangements for the farm output are described in chapter
II. The project's incremental production would be relatively small and demand is
expected to rise -- in view of a fast growing population and established export
markets (cotton, rice) -- annual incremental output should be readily absorbed.
Fodder would essentially be used on the farm.
6.6         Farmers are assumed to receive and pay fixed prices for commodities
subject to government regulation and market prices for all others. FY92 farmgate
prices used in the financial analysis are shown in Annex 9, Table 4.
Farm Income
6.7         The two farm models chosen for the project have been designed to
represent typical cropping patterns, cultivation practices, input usage, and
yields. Budgets prepared for these models show an increase in net annual income
of 39% (in constant FY92 prices) for the small and 45% for the large farm at full
development. A summary of income per farm is given in Table 6.3 and detailed
budgets are in Annex 9, Tables 2 and 3. Benefits to farmers located at the tail
of minors and watercourses vould generally be greater than those accruing to
farmers located at the head. The project's impact on tenants' income would vary
depending on tenancy arrangements, but income would generally be about one-half
to two-thirds of the incremental income of owner/operators.
Table 6.3: INCOME PER FARM
('000 Rupees)
Without   With     Incremental
Present   Project  Project   000 Rs
Small farms            10.52      14.17   19.68      5.51    39
Large farms           20.52       39.51   57.61    18.10    46
Total area             16.80      22.13   31.45      9.32    42



- 36 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Production and Employment
7.1         The project would raise agricultural production and incomes by
improving the irrigation system and providinp surface drainage over a command
area of about 104,800 ha. About 17,900 farm families or about 143,000 people
would directly benefit. Their present annual per capita income from cropping
activities of between US$50 (small farm) and US$150 equivalent (large farm)
compares with a per capita GNP of US$375 (1990 World Bank estimate). Population
in the project area is projected to double by the year 2015. Without the
project, underemployment is likely to increase. With the project, total farm
labor requirements would reach about 9 million workdays per year at full
development (2001) -- an increase of 12% over the present situation -- providing
additional employment opportunities in the area. Construction activities would
also generate employment during the implementation period. The project would
cover mostly saline groundwater areas, where farm incomes are generally lower
than in fresh groundwater areas, and would benefit farmers at the tail end of
canals and watercourses whose incomes had been depressed because planned water
supplies did not reach their land. It would thus improve living conditions of
the poorer section of the farming community. Involvement of women would follow
the pattern traditionally associated with irrigated agriculture in Pakistan, with
women participating in farm work but not in water management.
Other Benefits
7.2         Storm water drainage would reduce the long-term effect of inadequate
drainage on buildings, roads and utility lines, reducing the maintenance cost of
these facilities. Surface drainage would also improve health and sanitation
conditions. Provision of electrical power for the interceptor drains would also
benefit the project area. These indirect (unquantified) benefits would
contribute to improving the living standard of the predominantly rural
population.
7.3         The research component and Phase 2 preparation would benefit the
water sector as a whole. They would provide answers to several key questions
needed for water sector development in the 'post water allocations' era.
Research component would provide guidance in fully utilizing the available
resources in highly saline and waterlogged environment. It would also provide a
model for integrating the irrigation and agricultural activities and make
proposals for converting the surface irrigation system to a demand based system.
Economic Analysis
7.4         The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated to be
22%. Economic benefits and costs given in Annex 10, Table 1 have been calculated
in constant FY92 prices. The main assumptions made in the analysis are as
follows:
(a)    Project Life:  Twenty six years (twenty years after the completion of
the project), with full development reached in project year 9, three
years after the completion of works -- the build-up of benefits would
take four years for each bati.h of improvements.
(b)    Prices:  Farmgate prices for internationally traded goods are based on
World Bank commodity price forecasts, while those fcr non-traded goods
are based on domestic financial prices (Annex 9, Table 4). Among traded



- 37 -
goods, export parity prices have been used for cotton, rice and
sugarcane, and import parity prices for wheat and fertllizers. The
market wage for labor as well as other domestic prices and price
components have been translated into border prices by applying a
standard conversion factor of 0.9.
(c)    Proiect Benefits:  Benefits consist of the estimated incremental crop
production described in Chapter VI.
(d)    Proiect Costs:  All investment costs, incremental crop production and
O&M costs have been taken into account.
Sensitivity and Risks
7.5         The project's ERR of 22% has been calculated with conservative
assumption concerning farmers' future cropping patterns. The project
improvements would allow for greater flexibility in regulation of the surface
water supply to the area, and with more timely water supply the cropping pattern
is expected to shift towards more profitable crops.   Assuming a 5% shift in the
cropping pattern accompanied by reallocation of 5% of currently available surface
water within each season, the ERR increases to 34%.
7.6         The sensitivity of the project to changes in benefits and costs has
been tested using switching values18 as a measure. A discount rate of 10% (the
assumed opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan) was used. The results show that
costs could increase by 200% or benefits reduce by 49% without making the project
economically unacceptable.
7.7         The project could face the risk of implementation delays due to (i)
limited capacity of the local construction industry, and agencies' and
contractors' relative unfamiliarity with envisaged construction techniques (canal
lining with geo-membrane, interceptor drains); and (ii) shortage of local
funding. Interceptor drains, although new in Punjab, have already been installed
in Sindh under LBOD. Hard surface lining has been provided in several canals in
the Indus irrigation system, including the 6-R distributary (under CWNP), which
is part of the Sadiqia canal system. Other types of membranes have been used
together with hard surface lining (such as asphaltic membrane in the Sidhnai-
Mailsi-Bahawal link in the southeast of the project area), but geo-membrane would
be used for the first time in Pakistan. It is expected that with appropriate
choice of bidding procedures (ICB), careful selection of local contractors,
proper specifications, design criteria, and quality control delays due to the
first cause can be minimized. It is hoped that, as in the past, GOP and COPunjab
would give priority to the project in budget allocations, eliminating the risk of
implementation delays due to the second cause.
7.8   Other Risks.      The Federal Shariat Court of Pakistan has recently given
a ruling that the Shariah does not permit the payment or award of interest and
thus, has instructed the Government to modify a number of existing laws that
currently provide for payment of interest. The Government has filed an appeal
with the Supreme Court against the Shariat Court ruling, which has been stayed
pending the outcome of the appeal. As far as Pakistan's obligations under loan
and credit agreements with Bank/IDA are concerned, these would be valid and
13/ Switching value is the percentage char.ge of the variable tested for vhich
the project's net present value is zero, or for which the project's rate of return
is equal to the discount rate (usually the opportunity cost of capital).



- 38 -
enforceable under international law, in accordance with the terms of those
agreements and the general conditions of Bank/IDA, notwithstanding any local law
or judicial decision regarding the payment of interest and other charges,
including any such ruling.
Environmental Issues
7.9         The proposed project has been reviewed under the provisions of
Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental Assessment" and placed in
environmental screening category B. The project will not require the preparation
of an environmental assessment; however, designs used for project funded
activities will be reviewed to minimize environmental impact. Typical of most
water management projects, the project would have an overall positive impact on
the environment. It builds on existing infrastructure and improves systems
operation. Hence, it would not create adverse environmental effects normally
associated with new development, such as resettlement, depletion of land and
water resources, and loss of wildlife habitat. Drainage of several small
temporary ponds scattered throughou. the area, and improved water management
would reduce deep percolation to the groundwater and offset, or delay, problems
of waterlogging and related soil salinity. Water management would also reduce
the incidence of mosquito-borne diseases by reducing the habitat of mosquitos:
stagnant water seeping from deteriorated canals and unimproved watercourses.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1         Assurances were obtained during negotiations from GOP, GOPunjab and
WAPDA, as appropriate, that:
(a)    specifications, design criteria and quality control measures used for
construction of interceptor and surface drains, canal lining and other
civil works would be acceptable to IDA (para 3.6);
(b)    surface water supply to the project area would be adequate and operation
of channels would be modified to meet crop water requirements as closely
as possible (para 3.7 );
(c)    improvement of watercourses in the project area would be completed by
June 30, 1995 (para 3.9);
(d)    timely completion of on-going surface drainage contracts would be
ensured and coordinated with the construction of surface drains under
the project (para 3.10);
(e)    a draft report containing proposals for formalizing farmer
organizations, and detailed design of a demand based irrigation
scheduling system would be submitted for the Bank's review by September
30, 1993 and the proposed pilot programs would be implemented during the
project implementation period (para 3.19);
(f)    consultants for design, and construction supervision of all components
would be recruited, following Bank guidelines (par& 3.22);
(g)    all implementing agencies in VAPDA, PID and PAD would maintain separate
accounts for the project; the accounts (including Special Accounts)
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and



- 39 -
copies of audit reports, including separate opinions of the au-itors on
reimbursements claimed on the basis of SOEs, and on the operation of the
Special Accounts would be submitted vithin nine months of the end of
each fiscal year (para 4.6);
(h)    all implementing agencies would furnish annual work programs to IDA for
its concurrence by March 31 for the following fiscal year starting from
FY93 (para 5.12);
(i)    SMO would submit an overall monitoring and evaluation program defining
precise responsibilities of various agencies (along with draft inter-
and intra-agency agreements) and providing detailed scope of work for
IDA approval by December 31, 1992 (para 5.19);
(j)    Punjab will discuss with IDA by February 15 of each fiscal year
beginning with FY93, the level of funding required for operation ard
maintenance of the surface irrigation, fresh groundwater tubewells and
drainage facilities in Punjab for the following fiscal year, and based
on mutually agreed funding levels, provide adequate budgetary
allocations (para 5.21);
(k)    Punjab shall, through water and/or drainage charges: (i) by July 1, 1993
achieve a recovery level of at least 35% of the annual O&M cost of its
surface irrigation, fresh groundwa_.er tubewell and drainage facilities;
(ii) by July 1, 1994 achieve c recovery level of at least 45% of such
cost; (iii) by July 1, 1995, achieve a recovery level of at least 55% of
such cost; (iv) by July 1, 1996, achieve a recovery level of at least
70% of such cost; (v) by July 1, 1997, achieve a recovery level of at
least 90% of such cost; and (vi) by July 1, 1998, achieve and thereafter
maintain a recovery level of 100% of such cost (para 5.22); and
(1)    a mid-term review, the terms of reference of which would be sent to IDA
for its concurrence six months prior to review, would be undertaken
jointly by VAPDA, GOPunjab and IDA during the third year of the
implementation, but not latter than March 31, 1995 (para 5.26);
8.2         The following would be the conditions of effectiveness: (i) VAPDA,
PID and PAD have completed the evaluation of proposals for consulting services
and have furnished the evaluation reports to IDA (para 3.22); (ii) approval of
project PC-1 by ECNEC (pars 4.2); and (iii) appointment of Project Directors by
VAPDA and PID along with associated staff (paras 5.3 and 5.7).
8.3         With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 39.6 million (US$54.20 million equivalent)
on standard terms with 35 years maturity. The borrower would be the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.



- 40 -
PAKISTAN                              Annex-1
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH)                   Table 1
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAgE PROJECT
Physical Features
Canal Name               Channel  GCA    CCA    Number   Authorized  Actual
Type    Acres  Acres  Water-   Discharge   Discharge
courses   (CFS)        (CFS)
Eastern Sadigia (Total)   N       297,604 258,701      668    5230/6280   5900
Girdgarivala             DY       4,033   3,041        9       13          15
Sirajvah (Total)         DY      49,176  44,421      113      197         217
Direct outlets         WC     18,081  15,679        37       58          70
Najibvah               MR       9,793   9,475       27       39          43
Bahadarwah             MR     20,367  18,350        47       82          90
l-R/Bahadarvah         MR         935     917        2      3.6           4
Malik Branch (Total)    BR       48,392  41,302       89     1538        1900
Direct Outlets         WC     15,739  12,465        22       47          52
Bhukan                 DY      5,369   3,835        10       13          15
Murad                  DY      22,402  21,002       46      595         690
Haran                  MR       3,940   3,103        9       69          76
Shadab               SMR        942     897        2      3.5           6
Hakra Branch (Total)    BR    196,003 169,937        457     2708        2900
Direct outlets         WC     22,240  19,285        45       35          42
Bhaku Shah             DY       1,569   1,514        3        6           7
1-R Sunder             DY      5,123   4,990        11       19          20
2-R Dunga              DY      6,764   5,643        14       20          24
3-R Khattan (Total)   DY      81,195  70,316       186      307         368
Direct outlets    WC      51,365  45,334      116       168         186
1-R Qazivala       MR     19,552  16,779       46        66          79
1-L Jourkanvala   MR       8,144   6,408       19        27          34
2-L                MR      2,134   1,795        5         7         8.4
4-R Harunabad (Total) DY      49,439   44,307    129        189         218
Direct outlets    WC      30,064   27,609      81       117         140
1-RA Labgsingh    MR       6,967    6,077      16        22          28
1-R Badruwala      MR     12,408   10,621      32        43          50
1-L Nubarak            DY     18,861   14,500       44       67          80
5-R Bhaghsar           DY     10,812    9,382       25       36          47
Total                             297,604   258,701    668
Total (ha)                        120,530   104,774
Notes: Channel Type, N Main Canal, BR Branch Canal, DY Distributary,
MR Minor,     SMR Sub-Minor,   WC Watercourse



- 41 -
An_ex -1
Table 2
PAKISTAN
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Channels with Interceptor drains
Channel            Total                     Reach
Name              Length Discharge                             Number
(feet) Capacity     From        To   Length of Int-
(CFS)       RD        RD   (feet) ceptors
1. Sirajvaha Dy      67,500       217        0   67,500   67,500          2
2. Malik Branch    116,900    1,900    3,700  116,900  113,200            1
3.   hurad Dy       122,000       690        0  116,000  116,000          1
3. Hakra Branch    296,000    2,900          0  165,000  165,000          2
4.   3-R Khattan   162,231        368        0  104,000  104,000          2
6.   4-R Harunabad 112,050        218        0   58,500   58,500          2
I'3tal                                                 624.200
(190.4 km)
Note: Interceptor drainage system would be installed along the Malik and
Hakra Branches and it would be extended to the rest of the channels
after evaluating its performance.



- 42 -
PAKIS ",                             Annex I
Table 3
FORDWAH EASTERN SAl.OIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Channels to be lined
Channel               Total                  Reach
Name                  Length Discharge
Capacity   From       To  Length
(Feet)   CFS       RD        RD   Feet
Eastern Sadiqia
1.   Girdarivala         15,750    13.0        0  15,750   15,750
Sirajwah
2.     Najibvaha         56,315    43.0        0  17,760   17,760
3.     1-R Bahadarwah    5,500      4.0        0   5,500    5,500
4.     Bahadarwah MR    60,139    90.0         0  37,300   37,300
5.     "  "                        35.0  37,300  60,139   22,839
Malik Branch
6.   Bhukan              23,040    15.0        0  23,040   23,040
Haran
7.     Shadab             5,250     6.0        0   5,250    5,250
Hakra Branch
8.   Bhaku Shah           2,740     7.0        0   2,740    2,740
9.   1-R Sunder          12,150    20.0        0  12,150   12,150
10.   2-R Dunga Bunga    33,720    24.0         0  33,720   33,720
11.   3-R Khatan         162,301   120.0 104,000 147,950   43,950
12.   n  n                          34.8 147,950 162,300   14,350
13.     1-R Qaziwala      59,100    79.0        0  29,675   29,675
14.       "  of                     34.8  29,675  59,100   29,425
15.     1-L Jourkanvala  33,900    34.0         0  33,900   33,900
16.     2-L               10,000     8.4        0  10,000   10,000
17.   4-R Harunabad      112,050   115.0  58,500  89,179   30,679
18.   n   n                         34.0  89,179 112,050   22,871
19.     1-RA Labhsingh   22,000    28.0         0  22,000   22,000
20.     1-R Badruwala    50,623    50.0         0  12,515   12,515
21.     n  n                        36.0  12,515  50,623   38,108
22.   1-L Mubarak         77,750    80.0        0  48,800   48,800
23.   "  "                          34.8  48,800  77,750   28,950
24.   5-R Bhaghsar        34,270    47.0        0  34,270   34,270
Total                                                  575,542
(175.5 km)



- 43 -
PAKISTA                              ANNEX I
Table 4
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Contracts for Surface Drains
Prom       To  Progress in percent
Contract      Name                     RD       RD  Upto December 1991
Number                             (feet)   (feet)  Financial Earth Struct-
Work ures
1 SC-1  PID     Outfall DR                0   79,680         76   84    71
2 SC-2  PID     Harunabad DR              0   27,485         43   67    30
Dahranvala DR            0   37,000
3 SC-3  PID     Shaheed DR                0   43,692         53   64    51
Doshakh DR                0   12,000
4 SC-4  PID     Harunabad DR         27,458  121,412         23   43    19
5-L Harunabad DR         0    5,000
5 SC-5  PID     Baghsar DR                0   51,573    Design completed.
Badruwala DR             0   17,095
6 SC-6  PID     Baghsar DR           51,573  136,920    Design completed.
7 NC-7  W       Jandwala DR               0   91,000          5    9     3
Qazivala DR               0   31,906
8 NC-S  V       Jandwala DR          91,000  201,090          3    7
9 NC-9  v       Harunabad DR        160,161  269,642    Design in progress.
1-L Harunabad DR         0   16,689
10 NC-12 U       Khetran DR                0   59,576          3   11
1-L Rhetran DR           0   42,071
11 NC-13 V       Harunabad           121,412  160,161    Design in progress.
4-L Harunabad            0   32,244
3-L Harunabad            0   20,979
2-L Harunabad            0   25,995
12 SC-7 PID      Work in the Evaporation Ponds            Design in progress.
Total                                      1,031,484
(314.4 km)



- 44 -
P-AXISTAN                            Table 5
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SQUTH)
IRRIGATION ANTD DRAINAGE PROJECT
Planned drains
Contract      Name of the Drain               From            To
Number                                          RD            RD
(feet)     (feet)
1 SC-1 PID      Outfall DR                           0      79,680
2 SC-2 PID      Harunabad DR                         0      27,458
SC-4 PID      Harunabad DR                   27,458      121,412
NC-13         Harunabad DR                  121,412      160,161
NC-9          Harunabad DR                  160,161      269,642
3 SC-4 PID        5-L Harunabad DR                   0       5,000
4 NC-13           4-L Harunabad                      0      32,244
5 NC-13           3-L Harunabad                     0       20,979
6 NC-13           2-L Harunabad                     0       25,995
7 NC-9            1-L Harunabad DR                   0      16,689
8 SC-2 PID      Dahranwala DR                        0      37,000
9 SC-3 PID      Shaheed DR                           0      43,692
10 SC-3 PID      Doshakh DR                           0      12,000
11 SC-5 PID      Baghsar DR                           0      51,573
SC-6 PID      Baghsar DR                     51,573      136,920
12 SC-5 PID      Badruwala DR                         0      17,095
13 NC-7 W        Jandwala DR                          0      91,000
NC-8 W        Jandwala DR                    91,000      201,090
14 NC-7 V        Qazivala DR                          0      31,906
15 NC-12 V       Rhetran DR                           0      59,576
16 NC-12 V         1-L Khetran DR                     0      42,071
Total                                                  1,031,484
(314.4 km)
Additional Drains
Drain      Length           Outfall Drain
Name       (Feet)   Drain Name             At RD
1 AD-1       10,000   Jandwala Drain        201,090
2 AD-2        9,354   Jandwala Drain          9,350
3 AD-3       10,450   Jandwala Drain         90,000
4 AD-4       10,890   Jandwala Drain         67,500
5 AD-5       19,580   Jandwala Drain         40,000
6 AD-6       30,360   Jandwala Drain         42,000
7 AD-7        7,000   1L- Haroonabad Drain  16,689
8 AD-8       15,340   Baghsar Drain         135,000
9 AD-9        9,750   3L-Ha-oonabad Drain   20,000
Total     122,724
(37.4 km)



- 45 -
Annex I
Table 6
PAKISTAN
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIUIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimate for Surface drains
Cost
Contract      Drain                  From         To      Million
Number        Name                      RD         RD      Rupees
Prices
1 SC-5 PID      Baghsar DR                 0    51,573         20.7
Badruwala DR              0    17,095
2 SC-6 PID       Baghsar DR           51,573   136,920         25.8
3 NC-9 V        Harunabad DR         160,161   269,642         32.4
1-L Harunabad DR        0    16,689
4 NC-13 V       Harunabad            121,412   160,161         50.9
4-L Harunabad           0    32,244
3-L Harunabad           0    20,979
2-L Harunabad           0    25,995
5 SC-7 PID      Work in Evaporation                            12.0
Ponds
Sub-Total                                    398,152        141.8
(121.4 km)
6 Ad-i to Ad-9  Additional drains              122,724         17.0
(37.4 km)
Total                                                        158.8



- 46 -
PAKISTAN                             Annex 2
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)                   Page 1
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Subsurface Drainage Field Trial Details
1.          The drainage field trials to be installed during the first phase
of the project are designed to test subsurface drainage parameters and
geotextile filter material for use as a protective envelope around pipe. The
main subsurface drainage parameters requiring field testing are drainage
coefficients, drain spacing and drain depth. This tes_'ng can be completed in
a relative short period (2 - 3 years). The establishment of the agricultural
responses to improved drainage (crop yield, cropping patterns, economic
return, etc.) will take more time. It is, however, recommended that these
long-term objectives are taken into account in the site selection and design
of the test areas.
2.          The field trial research will be entrusted to the International
Waterlogging and Salinity Resec.rch Institute (IWASRI). Overall implementation
arrangements for this component are given in Chapter V. IWASRI has already
engaged two international consultants to assist with the site selection and
formulation of the research program. About three to six test sites would be
selected, ranging in size from 60 ha to 405 ha. These sites, located in
presently waterlogged and salinized areas, adequately cover the variation in
the prevailing soil and (geo) hydrological conditions of the project area.
3.          Layout of the drainage field trial areas also involves
consideration of the in-situ hydraulic conductivity and other considerations
to evaluate the cost and effectiveness relationships involving installation,
operation and maintenance. Thus, the test fields will involve laying
horizontal pipe drains at an average depth of 1.7 m (5.5 feet), and 2.4 m (8.0
feet).   Drain spacing was calculated using Ernst's Equation for layered soils
and resulted in test area spacings that will range from 80 m (250 feet) to 30C
m (1000 feet) depending on soil parameters and drain depth. The testing of
drain spacings will involve three different variables which are the calculated
drain spacing, one half of the calculated spacing and twice the calculated
spacing. An appropriate buffer zone is necessary between each layout pattern.
Drain lengths are generally at least four time the drain spacing and have two
replications to properly test the parameters. River-run gravel envelope
material which has proved to be effective under the project conditions is to
be used for testing the drainage parameters in these primary test fields.
4.          Since cost of the river-run gravel envelope is extremely high, a
lower cost envelope is to be field tested for this project and for potential
use in other regions. Laboratory tests have been performed and indicate that
a composite envelope consisting of a synthetic fabric (geotextile filter)
material wrapped around the horizontal pipe drain which is surrounded by local
sand will protect the drains from sediment deposition. Thus, at each test
site comparisons will be made between the performance of different types of
pipe envelope (gravel envelope, geotextile and



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 2
sand envelope and plain geotextile envelope). These envelope tests will be
o..ce in the standard spacine blocks of the trial areas.  Extra drain lines
will be provided in these blocks for this envelope testing to avoid
interaction with the drain depth/spacing testing. At some locations, envelope
testing will also be done on the interception pipe drains which are planned to
be installed along the branch irrigation canals.
5.          Pipe sizes for the field trial areas have been calculated using
acceptable professional engineering standards. The gradient for the laterals
has been selected as 0.001 while for collectors a gradient of 0.005 has been
adopted. Manholes are to be provided for discharge measurements and for other
observations such as sediment deposition as well as routine maintenance.
Observation wells are provided for measuring water table fluctuations. The
arrangement of observation wells is based on the recommendations given in FAO
paper 28 "Drainage Testing". Sumps will be provided for collecting water from
the test areas and disposal into nearby canals where appropriate.
6.          Observations will be made to evaluate the performance of all trial
areas. Variation of water table during the irrigation and rainfall seasons,
impact on salt balance in the root zone, impact on crop production and other
items that could impact drainage design and layout will be measured. The
trials will provide the basis for subsurface drainage research needed to
prepare the design of phase 2 properly. It would result in a great deal of
transferable research on drainage design criteria, suitable depths for drain
pipe, improved construction methods for pipe drains, and how better advantage
can be taken of water tables for subirrigating crops to supplement crop water
needs.
7.          Since experiences at other drainage projects in the country have
shown that the design and performance of subsurface drainage systems is much
influenced by the regional groundwater regime, a regional groundwater
balance/flow model would be developed. This model would be used for the: ti)
interpretation and evaluation of the observations on the trial areas; (ii)
evaluation of the effects of the planned anti-canal seepage measures
(interception drainage and lining) and of the planned surface drainage
improvement measures, all of which measures would effect the groundwater
balance; and (iii) analysis of the potential seepage hazard posed by the
planned evaporation ponds and disposal of sub-surface drainage effluent from
phase 2.
8.          The findings of the research would be applicable in the design of
sub-surface drainage projects in the whole basin and would add to the
international knowledge in the drainage field. Almost all of this adaptive
research work is included in a new research effort recommended by the
International Program for Technology Research in Irrigation and Drainage
(IPTRID) and will help improve the quality and cost effectiveness of future
similar projects in Pakistan.



- 48 -
PAKISTAN                             Annex 3
Page 1
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Monitoring of Land and Water Conditions
1.          The proposed project would implement a number of water
conservation measures which will reduce the recharge to the groundwater.
These measures are interceptor drains along the branch cenals, lining of
distributaries and minors, watercourse improvements and surface drains. The
impact of these measures on the groundwater table is difficult to quantify
precisely in advance. Therefore, a program to monitor the Land and Water
conditions in the project area to assess the impact of the proposed measures
is included in the project. Assessment of the effects and performance of
these measures is of considerable importance both to quantify the project
impact and to assess the subsurface drainage requirements for Phase 2. The
monitoring program would also provide useful information for planning and
design of other waterlogging and salinity control projects in the country.
2.          Although the main objective of the monitoring program is to
monitor the combined effect of all the measures, to the extent possible, the
performance of each measure would also be monitored separately. It is
anticipated that the latter monitoring will provide sufficient information on
the a technical functioning to improve the design of new projects.
3.          The main components of the monitoring program are general
monitoring, specific monitoring and monitoring of sub-surface field trials.
General monitoring would cover the whole project area and monitor the
groundwater levels, groundwater quality, soil salinity, and water inflows and
outflows in order to prepare a water balance for the area. The Specific
monitoring would be aimed at assessing the performance of individual component
of the project. Monitoring of field trails (described in Annex 2) would
provide data required to develop the design parameters for tile drainage.
General Monitoring
4.          Groundwater Moinitoring  The groundwater monitoring is a major
component of the monitoring program in which a network of observation wells
would be installed. The alignment, coverage, and density of this network
would be designed to provide an adequate, reliable quantitative evaluation of
the impact of the implemented water conservation measures on the watertable
and on the groundwater quality. The same network will also be used to develop
the groundwater model referred in Annex 2.
5.          The SNO which has ample experience with this type of monitoring
would be responsible for the detailed design of the groundwater observation
network. The network would be aligned along the groundwater



- 49 -
Annex 3
Page 2
contours with higher densities perpendicular to the contours and lower
intensities parallel to the contours. The coverage should be in line with the
coverage of the water conservation measures. Generally the network will have
a 1-2 km grid.
6.          At the grid points regular observations on watertable depth and
groundwater salinity will be made. Observation timings and frequency again
should be guided by SMO experiences, but it is expected that two observations
per year (pre-monsoon and end-monsoon) will suffice. The observations will be
made in standard wells. All watertable reading will be converted to reduced
levels to allow the preparation of watertable contour maps. The groundwater
salinity will be measured on samples taken from these wells. Before sampling,
the wells should be pumped to assure that the salinity of the well water
reflects the salinity of the surrounding groundwater.
7.          Soil SalinitX      The the soil salinity monitoring will also, as
much as possible, follow the standard SMO procedures. The required
information density is expected to be of the order of one location per 5-10 ha
with samples taken at two depths (10 cm and 30 cm below soil surface).
Analyses of the samples on EC and SAR, both in a 1:1 soil/water ratio, would
suffice. It is further suggested that the soil salinity sampling be done
twice per year at the pre-monsoon and post-monsoon timing also selected for
the groundwater monitoring. The procedures and technology provided under the
Improved Technology for Planning and Monitoring component (to carry out
salinity mapping at a high speed) would be used to the extent possible.
8.          In addition to the conventional monitoring based on field
observations and field sampling, possibilities for use of modern remote
sensing technology to assess the impact of the water conservation measures
would also be explored.
9.          The monitoring should preferably start at least one year prior to
implementation of the water conservation measures. The pre-implementation
conditions would establish a reference base (baseline) against which the
impacts of the implemented measures can be assessed. The implementation is
likely to take a number of years. The actual implementation of the different
measures should be carefully recorded as it constitutes important information
to be used in the evaluation of the collected data.
10.         The collected data would be processed, analyzed and reported
within three months after observation date. The observed data should be
reported in tabular form as well as in mapped form (watertable depth,
groundwater contour, groundwater salinity and soil salinity). A map scale in
the order of 1:50,000 would be suitable.
11.         Hydroloeical Monitoring To prepare the water balance data on all
the inflows and outflows to the area such as, rainfall, evaporation, canal
water diversions, estimates of tubewell pumpage, reuse of water from surface
drains would be collected. Data on most of these parameters is being



- 50 -
Annex 3
Page 3
collected by the implementing agencies. Therefore, this effort is essentially
to gather the data bring in a format useable for the water balance studies as
well as for the development of groundwater model.
Specific Monitoring
12.         The specific monitoring will be designed to evaluate the technical
performance of the different specific measures. This monitoring would be at
specific locations only and restricted to the interception, lining and surface
drainage measures. The watercourse improvements have been evaluated in a
number of other projects.
13.         The performance of the interception drains will be evaluated on
the basis of: (i) watertable levels in observation lines across the canals and
drains; (ii) the intercepted seepage flows as measured in the pumped sumps;
and (iii) the salinity of the intercepted water. About five such cross-
sectional observation stations will be established. The performance of lining
will be evaluated by the "inflow and outflow method" on about lOX of the lined
canals. These measurements would be repeated one and two years after the
construction of the lining. These activities would be coordinated with the
research component on Performance of Canal lining.   To monitor the surface
drains, gaging stations will be installed on a number of surface drains at the
outfall points. Rating curves will be established for each station and a
sufficient number of discharge events will be recorded to evaluate capacity
requirements. The drains would be monitored for the water quality, extent of
scouring and silting, as well as weed growth. Special monitoring would also
be carried out in the areas adjacent to the evaporation ponds. Watertable
elevations and groundwater quality surrounding the ponds would be monitored to
assess the impact of ponding on the adjacent lands.
Monitoring of the Field Trials for Subsurface Drainage Research
14.         The field trials would require an intensive monitoring program
designed specifically to collect data to estimate the drainage parameters as
described in Annex 2. Details of this program and the frequency of
observations would be determined after the completion of detailed design of
the field trials. Furthermore, adjustments would made in the collection
procedures and frequency as required during the course of the research
program. The monitoring will be coordinated with the activities under the
Irrigation and Drainage research component.



- 51 -
PAKISTAN                             Annex 4
Page 1
FORDWAH E&STERN $ADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Irrigation and Drainage Research
1.          The research component consists of the following five
subcomponents: (i) evaluation of the impact of waterlogging and salinity on
crop production; (ii) introduction of improved technology for planning and
monitoring irrigation and drainage projects, and land and water conditions in
general; (iii) assessing perfozmance of different types of canal lining; (iv)
improvement of irrigation management with a view to match irrigation supply
with crop water demand i.e integrated irrigated agriculture management; and
(v) Agriculture extension support. The four themes of research should be seen
as organically linked and close interaction will be maintained for the
exchange of data and results. The extension component would focus on the
specific needs of the project area and would be instrumental in wider
application of the results of waterlogging and salinity research.
(i) Impact of Waterlogging and Salinity on Crop Production.
2.    Degradation of soil and water resources due to vaterlogging and salinity
is increasing. Current efforts to intensify agricultural production and
increase yields per unit area have to include innovative methods of
controlling and reversing the present trends of salinization and waterlogging
in the project area. In order to understand the cause and effect relationship
of this twin menace to crop production more precisely and to improve the basis
for preparation of policies and projects in similar areas, research activities
--mainly through research in farmers' fields-- would aim at attaining the
following objectives:
(a)   to quantify the interactions among irrigation and agronomic
practices that significantly affect farmers' yields under actual
farm conditions; in particular, the individual and combined impact
of waterlogging and salinity on the yields of major crops will be
determined;
(b)   to determine the optimal levels of irrigation of the existing
cropping pattern;
(c)   to propose adjustments in the cropping pattern to suit
waterlogging and salinity conditions, salinity resistant
varieties, and saline agriculture;
(d)   to determine the potential for use of marginally fresh and saline
water, including drainage water from the proposed drainage scheme
of the overall project, for crop irrigation.
3.          Field trial sites for subsurface drainage would be used where
control over varying water table depths, salt levels and controlled/measured
irrigation applications and other cropping activities is required.
(ii) Improved Technolomv for Monitoring and Planning.
4.          To enhance the Government's monitoring and planning capabilities,



- 52 -
Annex 4
Page 2
the project would test and adapt modern technology in data collection,
storage, and analysis with respect to:
(a)   intensively measuring, monitoring and mapping soil salinity in
relation to other factors (depth of groundwater, depth in root
zone, irrigation practices, soil characteristics, drainage layout,
etc.);
(b)   preparing of a computerized data storage and analysis system
through the adaptation of an appropriate geographic information
system (GIS). This system will be used for the localized
assessment of crop production constraints, management needs,
adequacy of drainage systems, drainage needs by location, and
irrigation infiltration uniformity, etc.; and
(c)   collecting "feedback" information of soil, crop, and water
characteristic as needed to plan, schedule, and control
irrigation/drainage and to maximize water-use efficiency and crop
yield while minimizing drainage and associated disposal problems.
(iii) Performance of Different Topes of Lining.
5.          The lining of canals has been practiced in Pakistan since the
1930s. There has been, however, no thorough evaluation of past and present
experience in lining. The Punjab Irrigation Institute is currently conducting
laboratory and field research on the use of membrane materials for lining.
This research, however, is limited in scope.
6.          The performance of different types of canal lining currently
employed in Pakistan with respect to seepage control, longevity, kydraulic
performance and sedimentation would be evaluated. Studies would be undertaken
to select the appropriate types of canal lining for seepage control and their
method of installation in canals under continuous operation except short
durations of closure for annual maintenance. This would require evaluating
the performance of lined canals in Pakistan and other regional countries
following comparable construction practices as well as an international
literature search to identify types of canal lining appropriate for adaptation
to the local availability of materials, construction practices and quality
control standards. Selected methods of lining would be tested on a pilot
scale by field installation in representative sections of main canal,
distributaries and watercourses. The study would lead to drawing up technical
specifications for the recommended type(s) of lining and their method of
installation for minimal interruption of irrigation supply, supported by
design parameters. costs and economic evaluation for application to fresh and
saline groundwater areas respectively.
(iv) Integrated Irrigated Agriculture Management.
7.          Integration of irrigation and agriculture is essential for
realizing the full benefits of the investment in irrigation. A pilot project
covering two distributaries within the project area would be undertaken to
test hov the operation of the existing irrigation system could be converted



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 3
to a "demand based" and how the farmers groups can participate in the
decision making. The objective is to develop and implement pilot programs
aimed to test the structural, organizational, and institutional arrangements
required to supply water to the crops as and when required and to bring
farmers and farmer groups into the management and maintenance of the
irrigation system.
8.          Under the Command Water Management (CWM) Project (Cr. 1487-PAK) a
good start has been made in improving management of irrigated agriculture in
selected canal commands by improving cooperation between the Provincial
Agriculture (PAD) and Irrigation (PID) Departments and involving farmers in
decision making'. This research component would build upon this experience
and provide answers to critical questions relevant to irrigated agriculture.
The main thrust of the research would be on developing replicable models for
(i) strengthening and formalizing farmer institutions (e.g. WUAs federations
and canal committees); (ii) providing farmer institutions a stronger voice in
decision making and a formal role in operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system, and developing a frame work for addressing legal and social
constraints in this regard; (iii) improving scheduling of water deliveries to
better match crop requirements by introducing, structural, operational and
management improvements; and (iv) introducing appropriate site specific
cropping patterns, cultural practices and input management.
9.          The canal supplies to the project area are short in some months,
and surplus water is supplied in others. Because the area is in the command
of Mangla reservoir the water diversions could be regulated to a great extent
to suit the irrigation demand provided an appropriate decision making system
is in place. With the provision of increased canal capacity and better
control through lining and improved control structures, it should be possible
to operate the channels according to the fluctuations in water demand.
10.         To study the feasibility of modern irrigation scheduling and
iistribut:on, two distributaries would be selected. Since farmer involvement
is a prerequisite for preparing appropriate designs, and subsequent operation,
of a "demand based" distribution system, the research would initially focus on
strengthening farmer institutions and preparing a frame work for assigning
them a formal role in O&M. An interdisciplinary team of staff assigned from
the Directorate of CWM would carry out diagnostic surveys in the command areas
of the selected distributaries to identify physical, agronomic, social, legal
and operational constraints to improving irrigated agriculture, in
collaboration with PID, OPWN, and WAPDA staff, and farmers.
11.         The following information, inter alia, would be collected and
analyzed: (i) reservoir operations; (ii) diversions into the main canals and
branches supplying the selected distributaries; (iii) cropped area; (iv) soel
salinity; (v) crop water and leaching requirements; (vi) expected salt
I/     Under the CWMP experience has been gained in: establishing
informal federations of VUAs; involving farmers in monitoring equity of water
deliveries; adjusting cropping patterns according to available water supplies;
introducing simple water scheduling and water management technlques; and
promoting farmer involvement in improving availability of inputs (e.g seed
multiplicatlon programs).



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 4
movement due to subirrigation; (vii) other important factors in the soil-
water-plant relationship; and (viii) physical, operational, legal, and social
constraints to meeting irrigation and leaching requirements. Technical
Assistance would be provided both for institutional development and
engineering and agronomic aspects.   Based on the findings of the diagnostic
analysis, and other related studies (e.g. the proposed studies on Institutions
and on "Reducing Government Liability") plans would be prepared for
integrating irrigation and agriculture. The Directorate of CWM. in
association with the PID. would submit a draft report containing proposals for
formalizing farmers organizations. and conceptual design of a demand based
system for the Bank's review bX September 30. 1993. The report would, inter
alia: (i) review existing legislation, including, WUAs Ordinance/Act and the
Canal and Drainage Act, and formulate amendments or new legal instruments to
formalize farmer institutions and define their role in O&M; (ii) propose
designs of canals, structures, and watercourse works, and operational plans
for a demand based irrigation system; and (iii) present proposals for farmer
involvement in various activities, including operation of interceptor drain
sumps, seed multiplication programs, and establishment of community centers
and demonstrations for transfer of technology.
12.         Implementation of civil works (physical and structural
improvements) would be undertaken by the PID and OFWM after the farmer
organizations have been established and their roles in implementation and O&M
fully defined. Given the research nature of this activity, continuous
consultations with the beneficiaries would be essential during all stages of
design preparation as well as implementation and operation. A flexible
approach to implementation wouild be necessary to incorporate farmers' views.
Research findings and results from the operation of the demand based system
would be incorporated in the operation of other channels in the project area.
(v) Agricultural Extension SuRport.
13.         The extension component of the research would focus on the
specific needs of the project area. In addition to the regular extension
program, information on land reclamation techniques, water management,
cultural practices to improve cropping under waterlogging and salinity
conditions, salt resistant varieties and crops would be provided to farmers.
The extension agency would gather information on these aspects from research
carried out under the project and from other experimental stations in
Pakistan. Field trial sites for subsurface drainage would be used as
demonstration plots and additional plots would be installed as required.
Extension service staff would collaborate closely with the OFWN irrigation
agronomy teams. Details of the function of extension service are given in
chapter V.



- 55 -
PISTAN                                        Ax 5
Pase 1
FORDWAI EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
List of Eauimnent
Base Cost (Rs 000)
Item                      Uhit   Number      Uuit    Total
Cost     Cost
A. Interceptor drains ad Surface drains
Survey Eauinment
1 Theodolite                     No.       5     279.84 1,399.20
2 Level with Stand               No.       7      22.35   156.45
3 Survey Support Set             No.      14      11.17   156.36
4 Diatomat                       No.       2     316.21   632.42
Sub-total                                             2,344.45
Office Eauiument and Furniture
5 Type Writers                   No.       1      11.18    11.18
6 Amonia Printing machine        No.       1     121.20   121.20
7 Plain Paper Copier             No.       2     168.27   336.54
8 Computer with Printer          No.       7      70.00   490.00
9 Scientific Calculators         No.      10       0.93      9.30
10 Air conditioners               No.       8      20.20   161.60
11 Drawing Instruments            Lump Sum                  101.00
12 Office Furniture & fixtures   Lump Sum                   500.00
Sub-total                                             1,730.82
Machinerv for Operation and Maintenance
13 Tube Clearing Machinery        No.       2     143.6    287.20
14 Service truck 4-wheel drive   No.        1     723.7    723.70
15 Crane 10 ton                   No.       1     359.3    359.30
16 Fork lift/Teleporter           No.       1     119.8    119.80
Sub-total                                             1,490.00
Transport
17 4-Wheel Drive 2 door           No.       5     600.0  3,000.00
18 4-Wheel Drive 1000 cc          No.      15     218.3  3,274.50
19 Car 1000 cc                    No.       2     216.0    432.00
20 Pick up                        No.       2     546.0  1,092.00
21 Community van                  No.       1     600.0    600.00
Sub-total                                             8,398.50
Total                                                13.963.77
B. Canal Lining
Surveving Eauiiment
1 Levels with stand              No.      18      40.0    720.0
2 Leveling stands                No.      36       1.5      54.0
3 Plane tables                   No.       6       1.0       6.0
4 Telescopic Alidad              No.       6       2.0      12.0
5 Magnetic compass               No.       6        .7       4.2
6 Binoculars                     No.       2       1.5       3.0
7 Invar steel tapes              No.      18        .4       7.2
Sub-total                                                806.4



- 56 -
EpWAB EASTERt SADIOZA (e9UTH)                           Pae 2
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
List of Emuimnent
Base Cost (Re 000)
Item                     Unit  Number    Unit   Total
Cost     Cost
Flow Measuramant & umiment
8 Fibre glass boat with oars    No.      2       40.0    80.0
9 Life Bouys                    No.      8         .5      4.0
10 Current Meters                No.      2      100.0    200.0
11 Wire rope 1/4 and 1/8         Rft    200       .025      5.0
12 Rack and Pinion for
hauling weights               Set       2      20.0     40.0
13 Meter flumes for water
courses (parschel/cut throat) Set      6        5.0     30.0
14 VeLocity rods                 Set      6        1.0      6.0
15 Eaho Sounders                 Set      2      100.0   200.0
16 Sounding rods                 Set      4         .5      2.0
17 Stop watch                    No.      6         .7      4.2
Sub-total                                              571.2
Transport,
18 Car                           No.      1      600.0    600.0
19 Large 4 x 4 Vehicle           No.      1      500.0    500.0
20 Jeeps                         No.       8     250.0  2,000.0
21 Pick-up small                 No.       6     130.0    780.0
Sub-total                                            3,880.0
Office eauinment
22 Fax Machine                   No.       2      30.0    60.0
23 Type Writers/Computers        No.      12      30.0    360.0
24 Photo Copier Machine          No.       4      75.0   300.0
Sub Total                                              720.0
Total                                               53977.0
C. OF4M
Survevina and Precision Land Level.'3 eautiment (New)
1 Laser Levelling Equipment    No.       1   1,000    1,000
Office Eauiunent
2 Plain Paper Copier            No.       1     100      100
3 Computer with Printer         No.       1     100      100
including Soft-ware
4 A/C for Computers             No.       1      25       25
Sub-total                                              225
Transport (Replacement)
5 Field Jeep 4WD (Medium Size) No.        1    600       600
6 Jeep 4WD. (SmaUl Size)        No.      2      250      500
7 Motorcycle                    No.      10      30      300
8 Bicycle                       No.      15     1.5       23
Sub-total                                            1,423
Total                                                LAME



- 57 -
PAX3SUM                                      Amex S
FORDWAB  EASTEtN SADIOZA (SOUTH)                         Page 3
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PREMCT
List of Ecuigmgpt
Base Cost (Rs 000)
D. Phase 2 Proveration and MonitorinA
Field Trials for Sub-surface Drainage
Item                    Unit Number   Unit   Total      By       By
Cost    Cost IWASRI Project
Surveying, Flow, water levels
jnd galinity Measurement
1 Weirs & Gauges              No.    60      0.7    42.0   12.0    30.0
2 Data Loggers                 No.    36    29.3 1,055.0  306.0   749.0
3 Computers,Printers & Plotters       3   146.6   440.0  127.5   312.5
4 Weather Stations             No.     2   234.6   469.2  127.5   341.7
S Dumpy Levels                No.      1    46.0    46.0    5.0    41.0
6 Staff Rods                   No.     2     1.2     2.4             2.4
7 Observation Wells            No. 1,148     0.4   459.2    5.0   454.2
8 Neutron Prob                 No.     2    88.0   176.0  127.5    48.5
9 Neutron Access Tubes         No.    12     0.6      7.2    2.0     5.2
10 Tensiometer                  No.     6    22.0   132.0   38.2    93.8
11 Water Level Recorders        No.     4    64.5   258.0  127.5   130.5
12 Salinity Measurements   Lump sum                 255.0   76.5   178.5
13 Potentiometer           Lump sum                  30.0   10.0    20.0
14 Water stage recorder         No.     4   150.0   600.0           600.0
15 Photo copier                 No.     1    80.0    80.0            80.0
Sub-total                                                      3,087.3
Transport
16 Pick up Large                No.     1   500     500.0           500.0
17 Pick up Small                No.     2   250      500.0          500.0
Total                                          3,372.0  964.7 4,087.3
E. Irrigation and Drainage Research
Agricultural Extension Support
1 Fabricated Cinema Van with No.      1    1,000   1,000
Audio Video accessories
(TV Monitor 26 inches,
Video cassette Recorder,
Public Address system
& generator)
2 Slide Projector             No.     1       12       12
3 Overhead Projector          No.     1       10       10
4 Still Camera 35 mm (SLR)   No.      1       20      20
5 Photo copying machine       No.     1      140      140
6Typo writer                  No.     1       15       15
Sub-total                                        1,197



- 58 -
PAKISTAN                                    Annex 5
Paso 4
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
List of Eauirmcnt
Bame Cost (Rs 000)
Item                    Unit Number By         By  Unit   Total
CWMP  Project  Cost    Cost
Integrated Irriaated Agrioulture ManaRgement
Flow Measurement/Field Eciunment
7 Water Level Recorders       No.     8              8    40      320
8 Current Meters              No.     4     2        2   145      290
9 Broad Crested Weir Flumes   No.    10             10     3       30
10 Audio Video Equipment       No.     1              1  200       200
11 Farm implements and water
application equipment   Lump sum                                600
Sub-total                                                     1,440
Office Eauiument
12 Computers                   No.     2     2
13 Lap Top computers           No.     8              8     25     200
14 Computer Software       Lump sum                                 50
15 Furniture               Lump sum                                200
16 Fax Machines                No.     2              2     30      60
Sub-Total                                                       510
Transport
17 Vehicles                    No.    11     3        8    200   1,600
18 Motorcycles                 No.     7      7
Sub-total                                                     1, 600
Total                                                         4.747
Total (Eauirment)                                              31.423.67



- 59 -
PAKISTAN                                         Anex 6
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia(South)                               Table I
Irrigation & Drainage Project
Rupees (Million)
Projeot Components by Year
Base Costs                              Total
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-------
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998 Rs (m)  U3$ (m)
A. Interoeptor Drains             36.35   88.15  109.73  108.75  108.75  108.75  560.49   21.98
B. Canal Lining                   29.29   73.33   92.84   92.24   92.24   92.24  472.16   18.52
C. On Farm Water Manageent         6.98    7.24    6.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.40    0.80
D. Surface Drains                 12.02   28.20   35.22   34.80   34.80   34.80  179.86    7.05
E. Monitoring & Phase 2 Prep       2.53   25.86   24.93   22.46    3.60    3.60   82.79    3.25
F. Irrigation Drainage Res.        7.68   24.07   21.19   20.60   22.60   22.60  118.74    4.66
G. Monitoring & Evaluation         0.00    0.50    1.00    2.10    2.10    2.10    7.80    0.31
B. Tachnioal Asaist. a Trng.       0.80    4.50    3.70    4.00    4.00    3.00   20.00    0.78
I. Future Proj. Preparation        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50   12.50   12.50   25.50    1.00
Total BA8ELINE COSTS              95.65  251.65  294.80  285.45  280.59  279.59 1487.74   58.34
Physical Contingencies          4.91   16.35   21.32   21.17   19.63   19.63  103.00    4.04
Price Contingencies             4.57   24.85   50.04   69.85   90.50  113.57  353.38    8.27
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-------
Total PROJECT COSTS              105.12  292.85  366.16  376.47  390.73  412.79  1944.12   70.65
Taxes                          14.29   35.39   38.54   38.65   39.57   41.87  208.30    7.59
Foreign Exchange               26.94   74.35   88.53   90.53   93.83   99.32  473.49   17.22
-----------------------------_----------------------------------__-----------__--------------------------
PAKISTAN                                         Table 2
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia(South)
Irrigation & Drainage Project
Rupees (Million)
Summary Accounts by Year
Base Costs
--_------------------------_--------------------------------------__---
1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998    Total
I. INVESTMT COSTS
___________________
A. Civil Works                    54.10   182.57   237.54   235.68   216.42   216.42  1142.73
B. Consulting Services            13.56    20.33    20.84    19.64    31.44    31.44   137.23
C. Administration & Opn. Exp      16.04    32.44    33.26    30.14    32.74    31.74   176.36
D.  Equipment                      5.56      8.16     1.40      0.00     0.00      0.00    15.13
E. Vehicles                        6.38      8.15     1.77      0.00     0.00      0.00    16.30
_______________________________________________________________________
Total BASELINE COSTS              95.65   251.65   294.80   285.45   280.56   279.59  1487.74
Physical Contingenctes          4.91    16.35    21.32    21.17    19.63    19.63   103.00
Prico Contingencies             4.57    24.85    50.04    69.85    90.50   113.57   353.38
--_---------------------------------------------------_--------__------
Total PROJECT COSTS              105.12   292.85   366.16   376.47   390.73   412.79  1944.12
Taxes                          14.29    35.39    38.54    38.65    39.57    41.87   208.30
Foreign Exchange               26.94    74.35    88.53    90.53    93.83    99.32   473.49
--------_------------------------_------------------------------__-----------__-----------------------



PAKISTAN                                                         Annex 6
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqla(South)                                             Table 3
Irrigation & Drainage Project
Summary Account by Project Component
Rupees (Million)
On Farm           Moltori  Irrigati Monitorl Tecbnica  Future
Intercep             Water               us &       on      nu &         1       Proj.
tor     Canal  Manageme  Surface  Phase 2 Drainage Evaluati  Assist.  Preparat
Drains   Lining      nt      Drains     Prep      Ren.       on      & Trng.    ion
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
____________________
A. CiviL Works                       496.29    420.14      0.00    158.80    60.50      7.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
B. Consulting Services                37.16    26.50      2.70     11.87      3.80    20.00       0.00    11.20    24.00
C. Adnniastratimn & Opo. Exp          17.27     19.54     15.05     5.00    14.40    86.99        7.80      8.80      1.50
D. Equiprent                          3.89      2.10       1.22     1.67      3.09      3.15      0.00      0.00      0.00
E. Vehicles                            5.88     3.88       1.42     2.52      1.00      1.60      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total BASELIRE COSTS                560.49    472.16    20.40   179.86    82.79    118.74         7.80    20.00    25.50                                 0%
Physical Contingencies             39.70     42.01      0.00     15.88      4.84      0.56      0.00      0.00      0.00                               0
Price Contingencies                135.15    116.29      1.97    44.01     14.78    26.15       2.11      4.29      8.63                               1
-----------------------------------------------------_----------------__-----__------------
Total PROJECT COSTS                 735.34    630.47     22.37   239.75    102.40   145.45        9.91    24.29    34.13
Taxes                               89.32    75.02       1.65    18.83     11.50      5.85      J.00      2.17      3.96
Foraign Exchange                   205.50    156.46      2.77    39.48    29.49    17.94        0.00      7.19    14.67
--------------------------_---------------------------------------__---------__--------------------------------------------



- 61 -
PAKISTAN                                                Anex 6
Pordwah Eastern Sadiqi&(South)                                     Table 4
Irrigation & Drainage Project
Projects Components by Year
Totals Inoluding Contingencies
Rupees (Million)
------------------------------------------------------------__--
1993     1994     1995     199S     1997      1998    Total
A. Interceptor Drains                 40.08   102.83   136.30   143.28   151.87   160.99   735.34
8. Canal Lining                      32.81    87.03   117.27   123.56   130.97   138.83   630.47
C. On Farm Water Management            7.29     7.91     7.16     0.00     0.00      0.00    22.37
D. Surface Drains                     13.39    33.42    44.48    46.63    49.43    52.40   239.75
E. Monitoring & Phase 2 Prep          2.65    29.80    30.83    29.47      4.69     4.97   102.40
F. Irrigation Drainage Res. (Total)   8.05    26.40    24.68    25.43    29.56    31.33   145.45
Impact of Waterlosging and
salinity    1.99     9.72    10.19    10.80    11.45    12.14    56.30
Improved Technology for Planning
and Monitoring               1.78     4.70      4.05     4.30     5.85     6.21    26.89
Peformance of Canal Lining         1.78      4.70     4.05     4.30     5.85     6.21    26.89
Integrated Irrigated Agriculture
Management      2.41     5.64     5.92      5.54     5.87     6.22    31.60
Agriculture Extension              0.10      1.64     0.46     0.49     0.52     0.55      3.76
G. Monitoring & Evaluation            0.00      0.55     1.16     2.58     2.73     2.90      9.91
H. Technical Assist. & Trns.           0.84     4.92     4.29     4.91     5.21      4.14    24.29
I. Future Proj. Preparation           0.00      0.00     0.00     0.61    16.27    17.24    34.13
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 105.12   292.85   366.16   376.47   390.73   412.79  1944.12
Table 5
PAKISTAN
Forduah Eastern Sadiqia(South)
Irrigation & Drainage Project
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
US$ (million)
1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998    Total
A. Interceptor Drains                    1.54     3.89     5.05     5.20     5.40      5.61    26.70
B. Canal Lining                          1.28     3.29     4.35     4.49     4.66      4.84    22.89
C. On Farm Water Management              0.28     0.30     0.27     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.85
D. Surface Drains                        0.52     1.28     1.65     1.69     1.76      1.82     8.71
E. Monitoring & Phase 2 Prep             0.10     1.13     1.14     1.07     0.17      0.17     3.78
F. Irrigation Drainage Res.              0.30     1.00     0.92     0.93     1.05      1.09     5.29
G. Monitoring 6 Evaluation               0.00     0.02     0.04     0.09     0.10      0.10     0.36
S. Technical Assist. & Trng.             0.03     0.19     0.16     0.18     0.19      0.14     0.88
I. Future Proj. Prep ration             0.00      0.00     0.00     0.02     0.58      0.60     1.20
Total PROJECTS COSTS                     4.04    11.08    13.58    13.67    13.90    14.38    70.65



- 62 -
PAKISTAN                             Annex 7
Table 1
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRATNAGE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Semester          Per Semester        Cumulative
First
Second                 1.53               1.53
mY94
FLrst                  1.53               3.06
Second                 4.20               7.26
Flrst                  4.20              11.46
Second                 5.21              16.67
FM
First                  5.21              21.88
Second                 5.25              27.13
First                  5.25              32.38
Second                 5.36              37.74
FLrst                  5.36              43.10
Second                 5.55             48.65
5m
First                  5.55              54.20



- 63 -
PAKISTAN                             Annex 7
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)                  Table 2
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Disbursements
Amount        Percent of Expenditure
Category                              (USS Million)    to be Financed
1. Civil Works                                          75% of expenditure
Interceptor Drains     WAPDA        13.98
Surface Drains                       5.20
Monitoring and Phase 2               1.87
preparation                             -
21.05
Canal lining            PID         10.78
Irrigation & Drainage  PAD           0.21
research
Sub-total                                32.04
2. Consulting Services                                  80% of expenditure
WAPDA        3.41
PID          0.82
PAD          0.08
Sub-total                                  4.31
3. Incremental Staff Salaries,                          90% of expenditure.
Operating Expenditure                                100% of expenditure for
and Training                                         training
WAPDA        4.39
PID          0.69
PAD          1.10
Sub-total                                  6.18
4. EquiRment and Vehicles                               100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
WAPDA        0.41            of local expenditures
PID          0.13            (ex-factory costs) and
PAD          0.17            60% of local expenditure
Sub-total                                  0.71      for other items procured
locally
6. Unallocated
WAPDA                         5.89
PID                           4.89
PAD                           0.18
Sub-total                                 10.96
Total                                     4.20



- 64 -
PAKISTAN                               Annex 8
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH) PHASE 1
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project Imolemetation Schedule
PROJECT YEARS (PY)%
Project Component              PYI   PY2   PY3  PY4   PY5   PY6  Total
5    15    20    20    20           100
Intercfptor Drains
5    15    20    20    20    20   100
Canal Lining
30   35    35                       100
On Farm Water Management
5    15    20    20    20    20   100
Surface Drains
5    30    30    15    10    10   100
Phase 2 Preparation
and Monitoring
5    15    20    20    20    20   100
Irrigation & Drainage                  -
Research
5    10    20    20    20    25   100
Monitoring and Evaluation
5    25    20    20    20    10   100
Technical Assistance
and Training                                                      _
10    45    45   100
Future Project Preparation
Procurement:
40   50    10                       100
Equipment and Vehicles



- 65 -
Annex 9
Table 1
PAKISTAN
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Surface Water Availability ('000 Acre Feet)
At the Root Zone
Canal            Without/a  With
Head    Present  Project  Project Incremental
January           39.8     14.6      17.8     20.8       3.0
February          87.8     32.1      37.8     44.9       7.1
March            103.8     38.0      44.7     52.8       8.1
April            100.5     36.8      43.3     51.1       7.8
May              108.3     39.6      46.6     55.0       8.4
June             106.9     39.1      46.0     54.4       8.4
July             108.3     39.6      46.6     55.0       8.4
August           103.8     38.0      44.7     52.8       8.1
September         98.3     36.7      43.2     51.0       7.8
October           95.0     34.8      40.9     48.3       7.4
November         109.0     40.5      46.?     55.4       8.5
December         103.8     38.0      44.7     52.8       8.1
Rabi             539.3    198.0    232.8    275.0       42.2
Kharif           626.1    229.8    270.4    319.3       48.9
Annual          1165.4    427.8    503.2    594.3       91.1
/a With On Farm Water Management (OFWM).



- 66 -
Annex 9
PAKISTAN                                              Table-2
FCRDWAB EASTERN SADIOZA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Financial Budgot - Total Project
(Million Rupees)
Paddy               Rabi  Mustard   Kharif   Sugar-
tal       IRRI)  Cotton    F Fodder    Rave    Foder   cons        Whatk
Present
Production
Main Outputs          752.3      15.2    226.1      63.8      24.8     68.4    130.7    223.3
By-Produots            38.2       2.0      4.4       -         0.3      -         3.0     28.5
Total                 790.6      17.2    230.5      63.8      25.1     68.4    133.7    251.8
Production Cost
Seed                  (54.7)    (0.2)    (4.1)    (4.9)    (0.3)    (1.5)   .28.1)   (15.6)
Fertilizer            (97.1)    (3.1)   (27.4)    (3.4)    (1.0)    (3.1)   (12.1)   (47.0)
Water Charges          (8.5)    (0.4)    (2.6)    (0.3)    (0.2)    (0.4)    (1.6)    (2.8)
Pesticides            (73.4)    (0.3)   (69.8)                                   (0.6)    (2.7)
Hired Labor           (73.9)    (4.3)   (25.7)    (1.0)    (0.3)    (0.6)   (14.6)   (27.4)
Tractor              (167.1)    (5.3)   (41.5)    (7.6)    (1.0)    (7.0)   (19.0)   (85.6)
Bullockc              (15.2)    (1.5)    (2.8)    (0.9)    (0.4)    (1.1)    (1.4)    (7.1)
Total                (489.9)   (15.1)  (174.0)   (18.2)    (3.2)   (13.7)   (77.5)  (188.2)
Net Production Value   300.7        2.1      56.5     45.6      21.9     54.7      56.3      63.6
Without Proict (with OFWM)
Production
Main Outputs          855.8      15.6    278.2      65.8      25.6     70.5    134.7    265.3
By-Products            44.8       2.1       5.4                0.3                3.1     33.8
Total                 900.6      17.7    283.6      85.8      25.9     70.5    137.8    299.2
Production Cost
Seed                  (56.4)    (0.2)    (4.2)    (5.1)    (0.3)    (1.5)   (29.0)   (16.1)
Fertilizer           (100.1)    (3.2)   (28.2)    (3.5)    (1.1)    (3.2)   (12.5)   (48.4)
Water Charges          (8.7)    (0.4)    (2.7)    (0.4)    (0.2)    (0.4)    (1.7)    (2.9)
Pesticides            (75.5)    (0.3)   (71.8)                                   (0.6)    (2.8)
Hired Labor           (76.0)    (4.4)   (26.5)    (1.0)    (0.3)    (0.6)   (15.1)   (28.2)
Tractor              (172.2)    (5.5)   (42.8)    (7.9)    (1.1)    (7.2)   (19.6)   (88.2)
Bullocks              (15.7)    (1.6)    (2.9)    (1.0)    (0.4)    (1.1)    (1.4)    (7.3)
Total                (504.6)   (15.6)  (179.1)   (18.8)    (3.3)   (14.1)   (79.9)  (193.8)
Not Production Value   396.0        2.2    104.4      47.0      22.6     55.4      58.0    105.3
Witb Pro10ct
Production
Main Outputs        1.109.1      18.7    382.0      79.7      34.5     83.9    182.0    328.3
By-Products            56.4       2.5       7.4                0.5                4.2     41.9
Total               1.165.6      21.2    389.4      79.7      35.0     83.9    186.2    370.2
Production Cost
Seed                  (67.2)    (0.3)    (5.0)    (6.1)    (0.3)    (1.8)   (34.5)   (19.2)
Fertilizer           (119.5)    (3.8)   (33.7)    (4.2)    (1.3)    (3.8)   (14.9)   (57.8)
Wetor Charge&         (10.4)    (0.5)    (3.2)    (0.4)    (0.3)    (0.5)    (2.0)    (3.5)
P4sticides            (90.4)    (0.3)   (86.0)                                   (0.7)    (3.4)
Hired Labor           (91.2)    (5.2)   (31.8)    (1.3)    (0.3)    (0.8)   (18.1)   (33.8)
Tractor              (205.4)    (6.8)   (51.1)    (9.3)    (1.3)    (8.5)   (23.4)  (105.2)
Bullocks              (;8.7)    (1.9)    (3.5)    (1.1)    (0.5)    (1.3)    (1.7)    (8.7)
Total                (602.8)   (18.6)  (214.2)   (22.4)    (4.0)   (16.6)   (95.2)  (231.6)
Not Production Value   562.8        2.5    175.2      57.3      31.0     67.1      91.0    138.6
Incremental Value
of Production         165.8       0.4      70.8     10.3       8.4     10.7      33.1      33.3



- 67 -
Annex 9
PAX18T^                                              Tabloe 3
FORDWAB EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJEC?
Financial Budget
(Million Rupees)
Small Farms (3.5 ha) 1,
Paddy             Rabi    Mustard   Iharif   Su_er-
Total    tIRRI)  Cotton   Fodder   & Race    Fodder   cene        Wheat
Preesnt
Value of Production    308.9        6.6     84.7     31.2      11.7     33.5      54.8     86.5
Production Cost        (179.8)    (4.8)   (57.9)    (7.9)    (1.4)    (6.2)   (32.6)   (69.0)
Not Produotion Value   129.2        1.8     26.8     23.3      10.3     27.3      22.2     17.5
Without Pro5eet (with OPWM)
Value of Production    360.5        6.8    105.2     32.4      12.1     34.8      56.9    112.4
Production Cost        (166.6)    (4.9)   (60.1)    (8.2)    (1.4)    (6.4)   (33.9)   (71.6)
Net Production Volue   173.9        1.9     45.0     24.2      10.7     28.3      23.0     40.8
With Pro.1ect
Value of Production    459.5        7.9    143.8     38.5      16.1     40.6      75.3  137.278
Production Cost        (217.9)    (5.8)   (70.2)    (9.6)    (1.7)    (7.5)   (39.U)   (83.6)
Net Production Value   241.5       2.2      73.8     28.9      14.4     33.1      35.7     53.7
Incremental Valuo
of Production          67.6      0.3      28.6      4.7       3.7      4.8      12.7     12.9
Large Farms (11 ha) y
Present
Value of Production    481.6       10.7    145.8     32.6      13.5     34.9      78.9    155.3
Production Cost        (310.1)   (10.4)  (116.0)   (10.3)    (1.9)    (7.5)   (44.8)  (119.2)
Net Production Value   171.5        0.3     29.7     22.3      11.6     27.4      34.1     46.1
Without Project (with OFWM)
Value of Production    540.1       10.9    178.4     33.5      13.8     35.8      80.9    186.8
Production Cost        (318.0)   (10.6)  (119.0)   (10.6)    (1.9)    (7.7)   (46.0)  (122.3)
Net Production Value   222.1        0.3     59.4     22.9      11.9     28.1      34.9     84.5
With Progect
Value of Production    706.1       13.2    245.8     41.2      13.9     43.3    110.9    232.9
Production Cost        (384.9)   (12.9)  (144.0)   (12.8)    (2.3)    (9.3)   (55.6)  (148.0)
Net Production Value   321.2        0.4    101.6     28.4      16.6     34.0      55.3     84.9
Incremental Value
of Production          99.1      0.1      42.2      5.5       4.7      5.9      20.4     20.4
f 12.274.
V 5,620.



- 68 -
Annex 9
PAKISTAN                              Table 4
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
(in Rupees)
Financial
Prices          Economic Prices
Unit (const 1991-92) 1991-92 1998-99 2006-11
Outp-uts
'Theat                       kg          2.80         4.73    6.09    5.52
Paddy (IRRI)                 kg          2.00         3.09    2.83    2.54
Seed cotton                  kg          7.13        11.82   12.47   12.15
K. Fodder (sorghum, maize)  kg           0.30         0.27    0.27    0.27
R. Fodder (berseem)          kg          0.23         0.21    0.21    0.21
Sugarcane                    kg          0.42         0.33    0.56    0.60
Oilseeds (mustard)           kg          6.80         6.12    6.12    6.12
Inputs
Seed 1/
Wheat                       kg          3.30         5.57    7.18    6.51
Paddy (IRRI)                kg          2.50         3.86    3.54    3.18
Cotton                      kg          7.25        12.02   12.68   12.35
K. Fodder (sorghum, maize) kg           2.55         2.30    2.30    2.30
R. rodder (berseem)         kg         24.00        21.60   21.60   21.60
Oilseeds (mustard)          kg          6.08         5.47    5.47    5.47
Sugarcane cuttings           kg          0.42         0.33    0.56    0.60
Nitrogen fertilizer          kg 2/       8.87        12.89   13.12   12.25
Phosphatic fertilizer        kg 2/      10.83         9.39   10.65   10.48
Pesticides
Cotton                    Appl/ha    617.30        555.60  555.60  555.60
Paddy (IRRI)  /                        86.00        77.40   77.40   77.40
Wheat  o/f                             86.00        77.40   77.40   77.40
Sugarcane                    "         37.00        33.30   33.30   33.30
Bullcck                    Pairday      45.00        40.50   40.50   40.50
Tractor                     Hour        74.00        66.60   66.60   66.60
Labor                      Workday      35.00        31.50   31.50   31.50
1/ Usually demands a premium over ouiput price.
2/ Of nutrient.
]/ Large farm only.



PAKISTAN                                                              Annex 10
Table 1
FCBDWAE EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH) PROJECT. PHASE 1
IRRIGATIOR AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005 2006-18
A.1 Cropping and surface water supply pattern same as without project.
Excluding Research, Monitoring & Phase 2 Preparation and Future Project Preparation
Incremental
Benefits             3.22   16.33   42.89   87.00  143.58 207.37  260.19  300.39 318.02  312.52  307.28  302.12  297.22  294.81
Investmeut Costs   76.06  182.88  231.46 224.41  221.95 218.65
O&M Cosq              -       -        -      -      -      -       18       18     18      18       18      18       18      18
8en-cost           -72.83 -166.54 -188.56 -137.41 -78.37 -11.28  242.19  282.4  300.02  294.52  289.28  284.12  279.22  276.81
Internal Rate of Return - 22.22S
A.2 Cropping and surface water supply pattern same as without project.
Including Research. Monitoring & Phase 2 Preparation and Future Project Preparation
Incremental
Benefits             3.22   16.33   42.89   87.00  143.58 207.37  260.19  300.39 318.02  312.52  307.28  302.12  297.22  294.81
Investment Cost    86.27  232.61  277.58  267.97  260.65 257.35
O&M Cost              -       -        -       -      -      -       18       18     18      18       18      18       18      18
Net Benefits       -83.05 -216.27 -234.68 -180.97 -117.07 -49.98 242.19   282.4  300.02  294.52  289.28  284.12  279.22  276.81
Internal rate of Return - 18.49X
8.1  Shift in cropping pattern by 52 and reallocation of 52 of surface water within each season.
Excluding Research, Monitoring & Phase 2 Preparation and Future Project Preparation
Incremental
Benefits             4.99   25.19   66.09  134.09  220.73 317.97  397.94  458.20  485.u2 477.86  470.94  464.07  457.67  454.49
Invdstment Costs   76.06  182.88  231.46 224.41  221.95 218.65
owCost                -       -        -      -       -      -      18       18     18      18       18      18       18      18
net Benefits       -71.07 -157.69 -165.37 -90.31  -1.22   99.32  379.94  440.19 467.02  459.86  452.94  446.07  439.67  436.49
Internal rate of Return - 33.842
B.2 Shift in cropping pattern by 52 and reallocation of 52 of surface water within each season.
Including Research. Monitoring & Phase 2 Preparation and Future Project Preparation
Inerumental
Benefits             4.99   25.19   66.09  134.09  220.73 317.97  397.94  458.20  485.02 477.86  470.94  464.07  457.67  454.49
Investment Cost    86.27  232.61  277.58  267.97  260.65  257.35
O0M Cost              -       -        -       -      -       -      18       18     18      18       18      18       18      18
Not benefits      -81.28  -207.42 -211.49 -133.87 -39.92  60.62   379.94  440.20  467.02 459.86  452.94  446.07  439.67  436.49
Internal rate of Return - 28.49S



- 70 -
PAKISTAN                            Annex 11
Page 1
FORDWAH EASTER SADIQIA (SOUTH)
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate   Activity                  Expected Skill              Staff Input
Dates                                 Requirements               (Staff Weeks)
(Month/Year)
11/92        Project Launch Mission   Irrigation Engineer               8
(discuss and review all Drainage Engineer
programs under project   Procurement
and ensure implementing Spec'alist
agencies know their
responsibility)
1/93        Supervision mission       Irrigation Engineer             12
(review of detailed      Drainage Engineer
designs, construction   Agriculturalist
plans, construction      Canal lining and
supervision             Drainage specialists
arrangements, research
design and implementation
arrangements)
9/93        Supervision mission       Irrigation Engineer              6
(normal supervision and Institution Specialist
review of conceptual
design for the
"demand based"
irrigation and related
pilot programs)
3/94        Supervision mission       As needed                        6
9/94        Supervision mission       As needed                        6
3/95        Mid-term Review           As needed                       12
Onwards     Two Supervision           As needed                       24
missions per year
3/98        Final Review, Project    As needed                         6
Evaluation and
initiation of PCR process
Total                                                                 80



Chart 1
PAKISTAN - FORDWAH EASTERN SADIOIA (SOUTH) PHASE I
IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project OrganizatUon & Coordination among existing Agencies
[   POLICY COMMITTEE    j
| PROJECT COORDINATION                       MONITORING AND
COMMITTEE                               EVALUATION
SMO.Envlronmenlal Unit
'4 _  _  _  _  _  _…     _    P & I/WMED
9 i                              i S                                                                vS
DIRECTORATE GENERAL             DIRECTORATE GENERAL                  DIRECTORATE OF                      IRRIGATION                          W
OF AGRICULTURE EXTN.                   OF OFWM                    COMMAND WATER MGMT.                   DEPARTMENT                           WAPDA
Deputy Director                                ~~~~~~Team Leader                  Chief Engineer                    PD (Drainage)
* Deputy Director     * Area Coordinator                  Social Organizers J2)              Coordination                    IWASRI
(Bawalnagar)                  Fi*eld Teams (4)                  Agronomists (2)                  PD (Canal Lining)                 P&I
*EADAs (3)                    *Agronomy Teams (4)                Engineers/Hydrologists (4)        Executive Engineers (2)           PD Planning (water)
Subdivislonal Offcers
SDO   (3)__                     _  _  _  _ _   _  _  _
- Development of                 Water Course                     Reseach on                        CanalLining                       InterceptorDrai
!-.xtension messags           IpoentIntegrated Inrigated                                                                            SuaalLnig-Intecepo Drains
Agriculture Mgmt.              - Collaboratng with                 Phase 2 preparaUon
vArranging audio             - Demonstraton centers              Farmer Organization               CWM on research                  Irrigaton and Drainage
visual sosat                                                    FamrOgaao                         for demand based                  Research
demonstration centers       . Water Management                  Seedrm                            system                           Mondodng
Advic/ExteslonProgram                                                                      -Future Project
preparation
Legend:
-0 Direct line of command
* . * * 11, Vertical coordinaton
No Horizontal coordinabon
sads\w51 172



FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOL                           rt
\                               t         ~~~~~~~~~~~~pROJECT LOCATtON?
ISA\C RE P.                                                                        0  Poels| Fpdnukels* oinlnlo                                             TAJAKI57AN
I  S L A M                                                                                    -o r  Fl - dS_               p q i    o u d r n  
O QF I R A N                X          osr-
i / * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A F G Hi A N I S T A N  iin  D-< 
\    Pv_T   q   -\>,.    r                 Nushb          ~~~~~~ ~      ~~P,,h,rP  tw     /    Mi-csh*           PEsHAwAe Ud              
|,,<                             Whoos                 O~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~UETTA            -,      t=OTEEs          FF.1bwFi       TAVL   N 
aolur  o  /  C  1sI KsD  .;> -t Rwni ndjrvLTW ts .C.,.
- "      ~~KWud                                  KJlv/J                            IV  j _ A          DB M )  -SRINAGAiR
b n              > @              9   ~~~~~~~~~D-GEho.iKhul   *                         AXi ^  rA^
_S =t==m                           X                   oS                         r                                                         ww, R S  4
=nbC ". l               hkA9t  ., _,)  J
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~A _4FKITG OAM ,                                     
04N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    D 



|~'                       * i)'  .Z. . 0  .:                     PAKISTAN                                                                                                       f'.i   AIS            '
FORDWAH EASTERN SADIQIA (SOUTH) PHASE I                                                                                                              _ "*
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PROJECT                                                                                                 ,                9'
PROJECT AREA                                                            Sahowolnogor                                        ,
M. ...cd P.,
S   )   ~~~~~  _   _      _      z            _ ~~~~~~~~~  ChiAhficn//e._                                                                                                                                          J
/    \                             _ o;<:ndwolo /v    s~~~~~~~~~crolo wca f t/ 
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
DEAINS
L-n a                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVER
CANALS, DIST/I/IUTARIES. AND MINORS
Do7hwIa                                                                                                                                                   M   CITIES AND TOWNS
-METALLED RtOADS
R-AIROADS ISTATION'S
C.W.M.P. _UNSOASY
kLr .= 4,,'                i                                                 , <, s                                         .                                         i/ -' -  INIERNATIONAL BLONDARIES
%7~~~~~~~~~-
9a Foqirrwo!
N/  >/t.  uQ-----                                  /'                                                                                                                     ___________________
'{' .O                                                                                    15KILOMEEERS
~.                      #-?~,A&.dhTh-d  .hp,*cMWd



