Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,/ A).- 4s; S;,  - -rJt
Report No. 5649-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT--ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
September 19, 1985
Water Supply DibfIn
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performmnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of September 19, 1985)
US$ 1.00      = Rs.   12.32
Rs  1.00       - US$    0.08
Rs  1 million = US$  81,169
The Rupee/US$ exchange rate is subject to change. On December 31, 1981,
the rate was Rs 9.10 to US$1; 1982, Rs 9.63; 1983, Rs 10.49; 1984 Rs 12.46.
Conversions in thi.s report have been made at US$1.00 to Rs 12.00.
FISCAL YEAR
GOI                 - April   1 - March 31
ICICI               - January 1 - December 31
Export-Import Bank - January 1 - December 31
Commercial Banks   - January 1 - Decembex 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AIBI      - Association of Indian Engineering Industries
BB        - Bank of Baroda
CCS       - Cash Compensatory Support
EEPC      - Engineering Export Promotion Council
EMW       - Export Marketing Fund
Ex-Im     - Export-Import Bank of India
FERA      - Foreign Equity Regulation Act
GOI       - Government of India
ICICI     - Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI      - Industrial Development Bank of India
I8CI      - Industrial Finance Corporation
LIBOR     - London Inter-bank Offered Rate
PF        - Productivity Fund
MRTP      - Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices
PNB       - Punjab National Bank
REP       - Replenishment Licenses
RBI       - Reserve Bank of India
SBIG      - State Bank of India Group
SSI       - Small Scale Industries



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT--ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...... ............................. 
I.  INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY .............       .......................  1
II.  MANUFACTURED EXPORTS - STRUCTURE AND PERFORMANCE ............        5
A. Trends in Industrial Exports ................... 0.......         5
B. Role of Engineering Products .............................        5
C. Policies--Impact on Competitiveness          ......................  6
III.  STRATEGY FOR EXPORTS OF ENGINEERING PRODUCTS ................       10
A. Policy Analyses ............. .0........ ...,..0...              10
B. Recent Policy Changes . .........               ......... ... .    12
C. Institutional Moves .......................................      15
D. Product-Market Potential  .........    17
IV. ROLE OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ................. ........    18
A. Role of ICICI ........    .......................   o ......    18
B. Commercial Banking System ... .... ........... o...             19
C. Export-Import Bank of India   ..                                21
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT .... o      ....................... o...........    23
A. Objectives, Components, and Financing Plan ... o...........    23
B. Financing Export-oriented Projects ...................  ....   25
C. Ancillary Financing Component       ....                        28
D. Export Marketing Fund ............... .            .....        33
E. Productivity Fund      ........................   ...............    34
F. Monitoring and Evaluation .................... ........    36
VI.  THE LOAN ........................        o.....................    37
A. Arrangements for Two Loans ...........   ...... o............    37
B. Loan to ICICI                 ...38.........................    38
C. Loan to GOI - Ancillary Component .....      ...................    39
D. Export Marketing and Productivity Funds .        .................   40
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................................   41
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .......     ...........................    43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
India in September 1984. The mission comprised N. Barry, D. Berthelot,
1. Dalla, M. deNevers (ASPID) and Andrew Singer (Consultant). A short
post-appraisal mission took place in January 1985.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Program for Financing Ancillary Development
2. Export-Import Bank Export Marketing Fund - Draft Statement
of Policies and Operating Procedures
3. ICICI Productivity Fund - Draft Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures
4. ICICI - Organization, Operations, and Financial Performance
5. Estimated Commitment and Disbursement Schedule
6. Documents Available in Project File
TABLES
A. Export Market Trends - Major Engineering Products
B. Commercial Banking System
1. Balance Sheet
2. Sectoral Breakdown of Commercial Bank Credits
3. Advances to SSIs by Bank
4. Commercial Bank Lending to Engineering Industries



INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT (ENCINEERING PRODUCTS) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:       GOI Loan:      India, Acting by its President.
ICICI Loan:   Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India, Limited (ICICI).
Cuarantor of     India, acting by its President
ICICI Loan:
Amount:          US$250 million equivalent, consisting of:
GOI Loan:    US$90 million, and
ICICI Loan: US$160 million
Terms:           GOI and ICICI Loans:  20 years, including 5 years' grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. GOI would bear the interest and
exchange risks on its loan and ICICI's sub-borrowers would bear
the interest and exchange risk on the ICICI loan.
Relending        GOI Loan:  (i) For Engineering Ancillary Credits.  From GOI to
Terms:                           participating commercial banks (PCB), funds are
to be treated as equity contribution by GOI to
the PCB. From PCBs to Engineering Ancillary
sub-borrowers, 15% per annum with a repayment
period of 3-10 years, with 1-3 years' grace.
(ii) For the Productivity and Market Development Funds.
From GOI to the Exim Bank and ICICI, respectively,
funds provided would be treated as non-reimbursible
contributions.
ICICI Loan:    From ICICI to sub-borrowers at a margin of 2% over
the standard variable interest rate, with repayments
of up to 15 years, including up to 3 years' grace.
Project         The project would consist of two loans as follows:
Description:
(a)  GOI Loan:    A US$90 million IBRD loan to GOI for financing:
(i) the foreign exchange costs of credits made
to engineering ancillary firms by selected
commercial banks for expansion and upgrading
(US$70 million); (ii) a Productivity Fund, in
the amount of $10 million, to finance up to 50%
of the cost of activities aimed at improving
product quality and plant productivity; and
(iii) an Export Marketing Fund, in the amount
of US$10 million, to finance up to 50Z of the
costs of eligible development activities of
firms engaged in exporting products identified
for "export" thrust; and



-ii-
(b)  ICICI Loan:  A US$160 million IBRD loan to ICICI, with
Government guarantee, to finance the foreign
exchange portion of subloans, for export-
oriented subprojects, with US$100 million
earmarked specifically for engineering
subprojects.
The reform measures announced by the Government during 1985
represent major moves to address the problems blocking efficiency
and exports of manufactured products; these measures are expected
to achieve significant improvements in cost competitiveness,
quality and subsequently, the volume of exports. As with all
projects, risks exist that the capabilities of the implementing
agencies will be inadequate to commit the funds on schedule to
subprojects which meet agreed eligibility criteria. Based on
past experience, we anticipate no difficulties in ICICI or Exim
Bank complying with their responsibilities under the project. In
the case of commercial bank financing of engineering ancillaries,
there is a risk of slow commitments at the outset of the project.
However, the participating commercial banks have now prepared
action programs for implementing the ancillary financing com-
ponent which are considered satisfactory. Full implementation of
this component is expected to commence only in 1986. There is
also the risk that GOI may not sustain the policy initiatives
taken recently. However the changes already announced by GOI are
unlikely to be withdrawn and there is every indication that,
rather than revert to earlier policies, GOI is following an
agenda of reform that will lead to further relaxation of controls
in the near future.



Financing Plan:
Project Financing
(US$ million)
-- Foreign-------Lcd-------
IBRD      Commercial   ICICI   PCBs    Sponsors         Total
ICiCI                      160 1/        160         180     -         260          760
Commercial Banks            70 2/         -           -      60         70          200
Productivity Fund           10 l 7        -           -      -          10           20
Export Marketing Fund       10  /-                           -          10           20
Total                    250           160         180     60        350        1,000
==:           -= -                55
Estimated Commitments                     FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89
and Disbursements:
Commitments
Annual                                47.0    126.8      73.0       3.2
Cumulative                            47.0    173.8    246.8    250.0
Disbursements
Annual                                 5.0      72.6    126.3      46.1
Cumulative                             5.0     77.6    203.9    250.0
Appraisal Report:  No. 5649-IN, dated September 19, 1985.
I/ ICICI Loan.
2/ GOr Loan.



INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT--ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    In 1955, India's manufacturing sector was second only to China among
developing countries; by the mid-seventies, India's rank had slipped to
fifteenth. India's export growth in manufacturing also has been outstripped by
LDCs overall. This performance can be explained in large part by the industrial
strategy and policies which have prevailed. With the objective of achieving
self-sufficiency, substantial investment--primarily in the public sector--has
been made in heavy industry. Investments have been protected and directed by
elaborate controls over capacity expansion, imports, and investment flows. This
strategy has been coupled with strong protection of small industry, reflecting
the desire to disperse wealth and generate the employment which heavy industry
could not provide. Thus, a second layer of protection and rigidities in the
industrial structure emerged. At the same time, restrictions were placed on
growth of major firms, many large only by Indian standards. The result of these
policies has been a diversified industrial base; however, the costs have been
high and the results mixed. With import-substitution opportunities approaching
saturation-for the goods Indian industry was supplying--industrial growth rates
declined. Export opportunities were missed, particularly in Light industrial
product lines in which India should be competitive.
1.02    Concern with India's industrial performance has led GOI to reassess
industrial strategy and the related system of controls. During the past several
years, a more pragmatic approach to industrial development has been manifested,
with an emphasis on improving infrastructure, balancing and modernization in
heavy industry, reducing capacity licensing controls, and relaxing trade
restrictions. Also, several measures to reduce anti-export biases and to attract
foreign collaboration were instituted. Movement has been in small increments,
gaps exist between policy pronouncements and implementation, and the mixed objec-
tives underlying industrial policy have strong roots. However, there has been
growing recognition that past policies have not yielded the desired results in
industrial, export, or employment growth.
1.03    Bank's Role.  Over the past ten years, Bank lending for industry has been
dominated by general lines of credit to finance private firms through development
banks, and loans for public sector fertilizer, coal, and refinery operations.
Loans to development banks have totaled US$855 million and loans/credits to
public enterprises amounted to US$3.2 billion. IFC's portfolio of loans and
equity investments totals about US$90 million, with 30Z in engineering products.
With the exception of two loans to the Industrial Development Bank of India
(IDBI), industrial loans involving financial intermediaries have met or exceeded
the performance targets set at appraisal. A Project Performance Audit Report on
the Ninth and Tenth ICICI loans (Report No. 3428, April 24, 1981) concluded that
project implementation was satisfactory and that ICICI, as a mature, well managed
and profitable corporation, should be more involved in project promotion in
promising product groups. The most recent Project Completion Report (PCR) for
ICICI XIII (Ln. 1843-IN) confirmed this finding and supported ICICI's strategy of
continuing to reduce its reliance on Bank resources in meeting its general for-



-2-
eign currency needs. The two loans to IDBr, although now fully disbursed, were
less successful. While loan disbursement targets were met, with some delays, the
objectives of strengthening management, project selection, and collection perfor-
mance were not attained, and no further general credit lines for IDBI are
proposed. The lending strategy for FY85-89 reflects a significant shift in the
size and scope of IBRD lending for industry. During this period, industrial
lending is expected to increase as a percentage of total Bank Group operations in
India. Bank-financed industrial development projects will be shaped to support
GOt policy and institutional reform measures which are geared to increase com-
petitiveness and exports of Indian industry. Lending will focus on overall
export development and on subsectors for which improved policy, institutional and
finance would result in substantial increases in industrial output, efficiency
and exports. These projects will be timed to provide finance and institutional
support, as GOI takes steps to address the policy problems inhibiting industrial
development across-the-board and in major product groups.
1.04    Industrial Export Project--Engineering Products.  The proposed project
represents the first of this series of industrial lending operations. The
Project is rooted in sector work on Industrial Export Development and Finance,
conducted over the past three years. The objectives of this work were to assess
how policies and institutional support could be geared to increase efficiency and
foreign exchange earnings--particularly in labor- and skill-intensive product
groups in which Indian manufacturers are or should be competitive--and how Bank
operations could support this process. By focusing on the engineering subsector,
which accounts for about 20Z of manufactured exports, it was possible to identify
changes which would have an impact on manufactured exports overall as well as
measures to increase competitiveness and exports of engineering products. The
report on Light Industrial Exports traced disappointing export performance to
policy-induced problems in industrial structure and performance (paras. 2.03-2.10),
and outlined a potential project to complement policy reforms. Officials of the
economic ministries indicated that the GOI was coming to similar conclusions.
The establishment and outcome of the high-level Kapur Committee on Engineering
Exports demonstrated GOI's recognition of the importance of engineering products
to India's exports and the need for policy change to tap growth potential
(paras. 3.02-3.03).
1.05    Since the beginning of 1985, GOI has announced significant changes in
industrial and trade policies and procedures which are consistent with the find-
ings and recommendations of the GOI Committee on Engineering Exports and with our
sector work (para. 3.05). In the Budget and subsequent notifications, GOI has
reduced constraints on entry and expansion of larger firms across industry. The
definition of firms falling under the Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices
(MRTP) Act has been raised from Rs 200 million to Rs ' billion in fixed assets.
As a result, in the engineering subsector the number of MRTP companies has been
reduced from about 100 to 20. Only five firms in the engineering product groups
with strong identified export potential fall within the new MRTP size definition;
these five firms represent about 12Z of capital employed and output of India's
top 100 engineering companies. In a subsequent move effective from May 22, 1985,
GOI established a list of major product groups in which firms could enter and



-3-
expand regardless of size, provided that the product line is not reserved for
small-scale industry. This new measure effectively eliminates the MRTP size
limitations for firms expanding or entering in the product groups specified. The
list includes most engineering products with strong export potential, including
two-, three- and four-wheeled vehicles, automotive components, machine tools, and
castings. The incentives for firms to stay small have been reduced. The Budget
announced a substantial increase in the definition of SSIs and ancillaries, and
excise tax exemptions for small firms have been replaced by a graduated phasing
out of such relief as firms expand to larger scale. To encourage increased
competition and reduce procedural delays, the Budget delicensed a range of
product groups with strong export potential. In the engineering subsector,
products under thi*s delicensing provision include the major groups identified by
the Kapur Committee and our sector work as having strong export prospects,
including vehicle components, cycles, handtools, machine tools, diesel engin'zs,
iron castings, and industrial machinery. While caveats still surround
delicensing, the relaxation of controls over growth of large and small firms
should make delicensing provisions more effective than they have been in the
past.
1.06    In addition to these modifications in industrial policy, the Budget and
the new Import-Export Policy contain measures to reduce anti-export uiases,
facilitate exports and related imports, and increase firms' access to imported
technology and capital goods. Tax benefits have been introduced on export
profits. Imports of many grades of steel have been decanalized, allowing private
firms direct access and reducing delivery uncertainties and delays. An import
export passbook scheme has been introduced for manufacturer-exporters to enable
duty-free import of inputs for export production. To meet the requirement of
machinery for modernization in industry groups with strong export potential, the
list of imported machinery available under Open General License has been
increased substantially, in engineering and other product groups, and import
dutics on capital goods for investment projects have been reduced from an average
of 65% to levels of 0% to 45%.
1.07    These significant changes in industrial and trade policies, which are
seen as the first in a series of initiatives under active consideration by GOI,
reflect key policy statements made in the 1984-85 Budget and Economic Survey.
These documents highlight the importance of improving industrial export perfor-
mance during the Seventh Plan period. The erosion in India's share of world
export trade is seen to be rooted in the "high structure of costs and prices in
the industrial sector" which has "severely impaired the competitiveness of Indian
manufactured products in world markets." The survey recognizes that "i .Z-
ficiency and high costs are due largely to the fact that technology in many
industries is obsolete and the scale of production is often well below optimum."
The Survey notes that industrial policy will need to reflect the fact that
"industry's ability to grow, diversify, and absorb an expanding labor force will
depend critically on the sector's success in efficiently deploying and generating
resources. This calls for a fresh look at the structure of industrial and trade
policies. Instruments of regulation which were devised in the early stages of
our planned industrial development may not all be appropriate in the diversified
and sophisticated industrial structure of the present day." The Survey reinfor-
ces the importance of prudent debt management, and notes that the import capacity
of the country during the Seventh Plan period will depend critically on export
performance. "It is important to recognize that this is not simply a matter of



-4-
designing appropriate incentives for exporters while leaving the industrial
sector suffering from high cost and low quality. It is necessary to act on
industrial policy to achieve cost effectiveness and product quality in Indian
industry. This must be combined with appropriate incentives if our exports are
to expand rapidly."
1.08    Major objectives of the first Industrial Export Project--Engineering
Products would be to:
(a) support policy and institutional reforms made by COI to increase
competitiveness and exports of India's manufactures in line with its
dynamic comparative advantage;
(b) help ICICI play a more active role in promoting and financing
projects which would improve efficiency and exports of firms
manufacturing engineering and other promising products;
(c) reorient the commercial banks' involvement in small industry financing
to give greater emphasis to modernization, specialization, and expan-
sion, by building programs to finance engineering ancillaries; and
(d) strengthen institutional and financial support by ICICI and Ex-Im
Bank to individual companies in improving productivity and export
marketing.
The proposed project would involve about US$1 billion in total financing, with
US$250 million in IBRD funding to support the four project components:
(a) term loans by ICICI for eligible export-oriented subprojects, with
60% earmarked for enterprises manufacturing engineering products
(IBRD, US$160 million);
(b) financing of small- and medium-scale engineering ancillary firms by
participating commercial banks (US$70 million);
(c) the Export Marketii.7 Fund, monaged by the Export-Import Bank of
India (US$10 million); and
(d) the Productivity Fund, to be managed by ICICI, in close
collaboration with the Association of Indian Engineering Industries
(US$10 million).
The institutional reforms introduced and main elements financed under the
proposed project are designed to improve competitiveness and exports of India's
engineering products. ICICI, s mature and successful development bank, will play
a more active role in promoting export-oriented projects, particularly in the
engineering subsector. Having Ex-Im Bank and ICICI manage the Export Marketing
and Productivity Funds will reduce policy and procedural impediments to getting
foreign expertise in these key areas, and enable use of competent institutions to
support actions by private companies, which is where the initiatives need to
occur. The project also will enable our first direct involvement in industrial
financing by the commercial banks, which should help strengthen this major source
of industrial finance.



-5-
II. MANUFACTJRED EXPORTS--STRUCTURE AND PERFORMANCE
A. Trends in Industrial Exports
2.01    In spite of India's substantial industrial base, resource endowment and
pool of skilled manpower, industrial growth hes been sluggish and India's share
of LDC exports has slipped during the past thirty years. The growth rate in
manufacturing declined in each decade since 1950, and averaged only 3.8% p.a.
from 1971 to 1980. During the same period, industry's contribution to GDP
increased only marginally, reaching about 16Z in 1981. While rndian manufactured
exports grew at a more rapid rate than output, India's 6.8% annual export growth
was outstripped by LDCs overall, which have averaged nearly 12% p.a. growth in
exports in the past 20 years. Within this relatively slow export growth in
manuiactured exports, there has been a shift from traditional products. In
1950/51, jute goods and cotton textiles accounted for about 86% of manufactured
exports; by 1982/83, these products contributed only about 12%. During the same
period, exports of light industrial products grew rapidly and now constitute over
80Z of India's manufactured exports: engineering products (20% of total in
1982/83), handicrafts (9Z), leather and products (10%), garments (14%), gems and
jewelry (211). During the 1970s, exports of cut gems, clothing and handicrafts
grew by 30X p.a. These products have benefitted from being highly labor-
intensive, requiring modest capital investment, and having limited economies of
scale in production. Policies limiting expansion and entry by larger firms and
constraining access to imported technology have hampered export growth in these
product groups less than for others. Also, these products being highly export-
oriented, exports have not fluctuated as a residual of domestic demand.
B. Role of Engineering Products
2.02    Engineering products contribute about 20% to India's manufactured
exports. Light engineering products, 1/ constituting about 40% of engineering
exports, experienced more rapid export growth during the seventies than the 22%
average for engineering goods overall. Yet, India's US$1.3 billion in engineer-
ing exports in 1982/83 represented less than 0.2% of world trade. Also, exports
of engineering goods from other LDCs and newly-industrialized countries (NICs)
grew more rapidly during the seventies, with nominal annual increases averaging
35%. During this period, India's share of LDC exports of engintsring products
dwindled from 9.1% to 3.3%. India has strong growth prospects in the export of
several engineering products. Processes involved in major product-market seg-
ments are labor- and skill-intenbive, giving India competitive advantages. Other
semi-industrialized countries have overcome probLems of distance and quality
demands of Western markets, which constitute 60% of world trade in engineering
products and 56% of LDC's engineering exports. Only 22% of India's engineering
product exports go to Western Europe and North America; the majority is sold to
other LDCs and the Middle Eastern countries. While LDC markets will remain
important, volume requirements from many countries are low, necessitating disper-
sion of marketing efforts. Also, several traditional markets are approaching
saturation for existing Indian products due to import-substitution policies,
1/ Mainly auto components, bicycles and parts, handtools, diesel engines, iron
castings, machine tools.



-6-
foreign exchange constraints, and low price, better quality alternative sources.
To accelerate export growth, changes in industrial poLicies are netded to induce
Indian manufacturers to upgrade quality and reduce costs to achieve international
standards, particularly to increase penetration of dominant WesLorn markets.
C. Policies--Impact on Competitiveness
2.03    Sector analysis 1/ demonstrated that a key barrier to competitiveness
is India's industrial structure, which reflects the strategy and policies which
have prevailed. Concerns with equity, self-sufficiency, resource conservation
and employment have been expressed in: capacity licensing designed to prevent
output in excess of domestic needs, regulations severely limiting growth of
larger firms and foreign collaboration 2/, protection for small-scale industry,
and controls on imports, technology transfer, and foreign exchange. The result
has been a large and diversified industrial base. However, the costs have been
high and the results mixed. A second layer of protection and rigidities in the
industrial structure emerged, as incremental output of many light industrial
products was reserved for the small-scale sector, and small firms were given tax
exemptions and priority credit access which made expansion to medium scale
unattractive. At the same time, restrictions were placed on growth of major
firms, many large only by Indian standards. The insulated domestic market and
rigid capacity expansion policies promoted poor quality products, created a bias
in the risk-reward structure favoring domestic sales over exports, and made both
efficient subcontracting and economies of scale in production and marketing
difficult. With import-substitution opportunities approaching saturation--at
least for the goods Indian industry was supplying--industrial growth rates
declined. Export opportunities were missed, particularly in light industrial
product lines in which India has comparative advantage. There is strong evidence
that India should exploit and enhance its engineering capabilities by rectifying
distortions in the industrial structure, securing effective market and technology
links, and motivating stronger firms to expand and upgrade to meet market
requirements.
2.04    Exports as Residual.  With the higher profits and lower risks afforded by
protection and controlled capacity expansion, manufacturers of engineering
products have had little motivation to expand exports. Exports represent only
10% of output, and have been viewed by most manufacturers as a residual means of
using temporary capacity surpluses, in periods of domestic recession or lumpy
expansions. As a result, the majority of India's engineering exports are domes-
tic models which happen to be acceptable in export markets which require similar
low price, lower quality goods. Ironically, larger firms with greater
capabilities to meet quality and volume requirements of major export markets have
exported a lower portion of their output, beirg most affected by constraints on
capacity expansion. Also, producing more competitive products, larger firms are
1/ Paras. 2.03 - 2.11 summarize the policy analysis incorporated in the Light
Industrial Export Development and Finance report, August 1983 and subsequent
policy assessments during project preparation missions.
2/ Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (MRTP) and Foreign
Equity Regulation Act (FERA).



-7-
the last to be affected by domestic recession. Reservation and other incentives
for SSIs to underinvest and export directly have fragmented exports and created
India's image as a low quality, unreliable producer. While the top 200 exporters
of engineering products still represent about 70X of engineering product exports,
about 1,800 firms exported less than Rs 1 million in 1978/79, with half of these
in and out of exports from one year to the next. The lOOZ export scheme, free
trade zones, and other incentives based upon majority exports have had limited
impact as they do not address relative profits of domestic vs. export sales, and
do not enable the use of domestic markets to achieve economies of scale and serve
as a buffer to swings in exports. Also, these schemes have a limited effect on
prices and quality of industrial products for the local market.
2.05    Capacity Controls.  Analysis highlighted capacity constraints among
larger, more capable firms, particularly in major engineering export lines:
handtools, cutting tools, bicycle parts, auto parts, diesel engines and pumps,
and machine tools. In the early eighties, some MRTP regulations and other
licensing controls were relaxed; however, most modifications were for "export
capacity", which is both difficult to differentiate and unattractive within the
present risk-reward structure. Some expansion was allowed--if the applicant was
not an MRTP company, if the product was not reserved for SSI, and if expansion
would not flood the domestic market. Until recently, MRTP companies were allowed
to expand only in specified, highly sophisticated, mainly capital intensive
items. Advantages of vertical integration and scale in production and marketing
have been recognized only recently for main line, light industrial product groups
(para. 3.05).
2.06    Capacity controls have limited India's export prospects in several ways.
First, with licensed capacity based largely on domestic requirements, the size of
the domestic market determinea whether Indian engineering firms will have the
scale to compete internationally. Also, with the high profits available in local
markets protected from external competition (through quotas and tariffs) and
internal competition (through capacity controls and SSI reservation), most
manufacturers of engineering goods have had little motivation to improve quality
or efficiency. Licensing provisions have been highly specific in the quantities
and products which could be produced, making it difficult for firms to compete in
meeting changing market opportunities. Finally, while firms may have gotten
eventual approval to expand, by the time the several years have passed to get
approvals and implement the project, market requirements had changed, costs had
escalated and technical edges had been eroded. Analysis demonstrated that MRTP
and other capacity controls needed to be removed or reduced, at least in lines
with strong export prospects, and procedures had to be streamlined to achieve
competitiveness and quality improvements. Ideally, both tariffs and quantitative
controls also would be adjusted, to approach more uniform effective protection
and promote growth in lines in which India has comparative advantage. Yet, with
substantial relaxation in capacity controls, larger firms would compete with each
other, reducing relative profits for domestic sales, stimulating firms to improve
designs and quality, motivating manufacturers to expand and sustain exports as a
permanent fearure, and enabling exports to larger, quality-sensitive markets.



-8-
2.07    SSI Protection.  Larger manufacturing firms have advantages in exports
when achieving adequate quality it difficult, complex selling and distribution
practices are involved, and technical and marketing tie-ups are critical for
market access. Most engineering products have these characteristics. Smaller
firms have a strong potential role as subcontractors. With appropriate equipment
to make a few components in volume, ancillaries can develop manufacturing techni-
ques over a limited range of operations. Producing to others specifications,
they need limited design or selling organizations. Overheads are kept low, and
small firms can continue to realize labor advantages, paying performance-related
wages. However. analyses of the bicycle, diosel engine, handtool and auto parts
industries indicate that SSI reservation and other incentives to stay small and
export directly have hindered the development of efficient subcontracting and
exports. SSIs have had strong inducements to purchase cheap, antiquated,
general-purpose equipment, often incapable of making required tolerances in spite
of the skill and industriousness of much of the work force. Without the threat
of backward integration by larger firms, SSIs have limited motivation to upgrade
designs or processes. Under these circumstances, incentives are strong for large
firms to produce as much as possible in-house to maintain quality standards.
Leading firms indicate they would subcontract substantially more if there were
reliable ancillaries. If larger firms are allowed to enter and expand and if
incentives for firms to stay small are reduced, the complementary advantages of
large and small manufacturers could be realized.
2.08    Technology Transfer.  In both ICICI and mission survey work, a correla-
tion was found between foreign collaboration and export performance and profits.
If the agreements are properly structured, Indian firms benefit from access to
changing and often proprietary design and process improvements, management
methods, and market access through brand image and direct efforts by the foreign
party. Over 80% of FERA firms in the major engineering product groups are
engaged in exports; 50% are among the top 200 exporters. However, foreign col-
laboration and technology transfer have been discouraged for many engineering
products. The list of products for which foreign technical or equity collabora-
tion has been "deemed unnecessary" has included many engineering products with
high export potential. When foreign collaboration is allowed, indigenous angle
and foreign exchange clearance procedures have limited the prospects for acquir-
ing foreign consultants, technology or marketing agreements. In the engineering
product groups studied, isolation from international pressures has led to designs
and quality well behind the competition. Also, while India has strong labor cost
advantages, these often are offset by poor equipment and methods, which reduce
productivity and product quality. Payments and duration allowed on technical
licensing agreements often have been inadequate. Arrangements need to be
improved to help Indian manufacturers identify and gain access to suitable joint
venture partners, sources of technology, and market ties. In-house R&D could
update technology, but the marketing and industrial infrastructure in India is
too small and insulated for this to happen adequately. India would do well to
adopt the practices of other LDCs and semi-industrialized countries, exploiting
the R&D of others through technology transfer.



-9-
2.09    Export Incentives.  Analyses indicate that export incentives are less
critical in stimulating exports than are industrial policies which address rela-
tive risks and returns of exports vs. local sales and close the quality gap
between Indian products and international requirements. However, in the short-
to medium-term, export incentives will be important to reduce anti-export biases
and to encourage firms to produce products which meet international price and
quality standards. Cash Compensatory Support (CCS), considered the simplest and
most important export incentive, would need to be maintained and in some cases
increased, as present CCS levels often do not cover direct and indirect taxes and
duties. Alternative or complementary measures which manufacturers indicated to
be strong export incentives are: revision of duty drawback rates to incorporate
indirect taxes; more generous tax exemption on export profits (or sales as a
rough proxy); and liberal tax writeoffs or other financial incentives for market
development expenditures. On import controls for exporting firms, analysis
indicated strong arguments for extending the duty exemption scheme, with close
monitoring, to avoid tying up exporters' funds. Also, import of capital goods
required further liberalization, to enable local firms to get adequate equipment
and to spur capital goods manufacturers to improve quality. The need for sub-
stantial streamlining of export and related import procedures has been emphasized
by exporters.
2.10    Industrial Procedures.  Several measures to liberalize licensing and
import of capital goods and inputs have been introduced in the last several
years. Expansion of industrial licensing capacities has been allowed, with the
caveats noted above. Quantitative import restrictions have been reduced.
Imports allowed under Open Ceneral License (OGL) have been increased. In 1984,
changes were made which provided for simultaneous approval for industrial
licenses, capital goods imports, and foreign collaboration; in practice, however,
procedures and practical considerations meant that these approvals have been made
sequentially. Since the application process has been sequential for about 90% of
cases, the total time taken can amount to more than a year. Analysis demon-
strated that simplifying capacity licensing, indigenous angle, MRTP and foreign
collaboration clearance procedures would encourage firms to invest in capacity to
produce exportable engineering goods.



-10-
III. STRATEGY FOR EXPORTS OF ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
A. Policy Analysis
3.01    The First Industrial Export Project is rooted in policy and institutional
analyses conducted by GOI, ICICI and a series of IDF missions over the past three
years. The purposes of sector work on Industrial Export Development and Finance
were to illustrate how policies and institutional support could be geared to meet
strategic export objectives, and to identify ways in which Bank lending operations
could help tap growth prospects in line with India's comparative advantage. By
focusing on engineering and leather products, which account for nearly 40Z of
India's manufactured exports, it was possible to identify key policy changes which
would have an impact on industrial exports overall, as well as measures needed to
increase efficiency and exports in these two major product groups. Work on the
engineering subsector involved: interviews of over 200 firms to determine how
companies were responding to existing policy signals; assessment of data on
industrial and export structure and performance; and analysis of public and private
institutions providing finance and other services to manufacturers and exporters of
engineering products. In addition, world trade patterns and India's relative per-
formance were assessed, relative costs and incentives of India vis-a-vis major East
Asian competitors were compared, and the key success factors for penetrating
dominant Western markets were analyzed.
3.02    Committee on Engineering Exports.  During the same period, a high level
Committee on Engineering Exports, under the chairmanship of Mr. D.V. Kapur,
Secretary, Heavy Industries, also was assessing policy and institutional measures
needed to improve competitiveness and exports of engineering products. Many of the
report's recommendations have been implemented with GOI's new Budget and the
Import-Export Policy announced in March-April 1985, and in subsequent policy
announcements (para. 3.05). The basic finding of the Kapur Committee was that a
major breakthrough in exports of engineering goods will be possible only if the
basic structure of domestic industry becomes internationally competitive in
technology, scale and cost levels. Unless general upgradation is achieved, the gap
between what is produced for the domestic market and what is needed in world markets
remains too large to be bridged by a system of incentives applied only to exports.
3.03    In addition to improving incentives for the full range of industries, the
Committee recommended that a special effort be made focusing on promising product
groups with high value added, dynamic comparative advantage for India, and a
reasonably small gap in achieving competitive price, quality and technology. This
thrust industry approach reflected difficulties in introducing radical policy change
across the board, budgetary constraints, and the advantages of focusing on products
and markets with strong identified export growth potential. The products selected
for focus encompass over half of India's present exports of engineering products,
meaning that the policy changes proposed would have substantial impact on the
engineering subsector overall. The products identified for the first priority--
Group I--incorporate the product groups identified by our sector work* as having
strong potential, particularly in the large, promising developed country markets:
o auto spares, ancillaries >            o handtools *
o bicycles, parts *                     o castings and forgings *
o machine tools *                       o chemical, process plants
o commercial vehicles, scooters *       o industrial valves
o diesel engines, pumps *



-11-
Also, within the concept of selectivity, the Committee recommended concentration
on the major US and European markets and emphasis on fewer LDC and OPEC
countries. The policy reforms proposed by Committee on Engineering Exports for
thrust engineering industries were the following:
CAPACITY LICENSING
- Expansion and entry of MRTP and FERA companies in thrust industries would
be permitted freely. This could be done by treating thrust industries
as having national importance in the context of Section 22A of the MRTP
Act, or by treating all investments in thrust industries as export-
oriented, using the provision that MRTP companies can expand freely in
export-oriented products.
- Firms would be allowed to enter and expand, regardless of size, in spite
of the existence of SSI reservation in product lines falling into thrust
industry categories "... for rapid upgradation of selected industries to
internationally competitive levels. SmaLl firms would benefit from
increased opportunities and incentives for ancillarization."
IMPORT OF TECHNOLOGY
- Thrust industries would be covered under the 1984/85 Import-Export Policy
which provides for technology imports for selected industries on Open
General License (OGL).
- Technology imports for thrust industries would be removed from the list of
industries for which technology imports "are not deemed necessary", and
would be treated as industries given priority for import of technology.
- Foreign collaboration would be actively encouraged. Maximum royalty and
lump sum payments would be increased, taxes on technology payments would
be reduced.
DOMESTIC AND EXPORT SALES
- These changes in licensing and technology policy would apply to both
export and domestic production and would not be specificaLly linked to
export obligations or performance.
RAW MATERIALS
- Raw materials for export production would be at international prices.
- Exporters allowed direct duty free import of steel, alloy steel, pig iron.
- Import of raw materials, including steel, should be decanalized.
- International Price Reimbursement Scheme for steel extended to cover
alloys and special steels used for exports.



-12-
CASH COMPENSATORY SUPPORT
- CCS revised to fully reimburse taxes and duties incurred in the course of
export production, not kept artificially low due to budgetary constraints.
REP LICENSES
- Higher levels of replenishment licenses should be given to exporters
related to not foreign exchange earnings and REP facilities should be
allowed for import of raw materials and capital goods.
FINANCE
- Interest rates for investments in thrust industries would not be
subsidized. Rather development banks would give priority to financing
thrust industries.
3.04    During 1984 and 1985, other task forces and committees were established
to assess important trade and industrial policies. Major issues being analyzed
include:
(a) additional means to reduce and streamline procedures for capacity
licensing, import of technology and capital goods, exports and
related imports;
(b) ways of replacing incentives for firms to stay small with promotion
of growth and modernization of SSIs, and allowance of entry and
expansion firms regardless of size, in areas with scale economies;
(c) development of a strategy for export development, which would
integrate fiscal, trade and industrial policy measures to encourage
competitiveness, as well as strengthen export promotion.
Additional measures in these areas would further enhance the policy environment
for competitiveness and exports. The Government has demonstrated commitment to
translate analysis and recommendations into policy change.
B. Recent Policy Changes
3.05    Beginning in March 1985, GOI has announced a number of significant chan-
ges in strategy and policy which will improve competitiveness and exports of
engineering and other manufactured products. These changes can be grouped into
those affecting: industrial structure; anti-export biases; access to imported
inputs, capital goods and technology; and industrial and export procedures. The
recent changes in policies and procedures are significant, and are seen as only
the first of a series of initiatives under active consideration, many of which
are likely to become policy during the next six months. For example, the
Ministry of Finance announced recently that in the 1986 Budget, remaining quan-
titative import restrictions would be replaced with tariffs. The list below
summarizes policy changes made to date which are expected to have a positive
impact on efficiency and exports in the engineering subsector.



-13-
INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE
- Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices Act (MRTP). On March 16, 1985, COI
raised the definition of companies falling under the restricted growth provi-
sion of MRTP from Rs 200 million (US$17 million) to Rs 1 billion (US$83
million) in value of assets. As a result, the number of engineering and
metal product firms falling under MRTP has dropped from about 100 to about
20. Most firms falling within the new MRTP definition manufacture basic
metals, ships, and heavy equipment. Only five firms in engineering product
groups identified for export thrust remain within the new MRTP size
definition, while 83 of India's major exporters of engineering products were
MRTP companies previously. These five MRTP companies represent only 12% of
output and capital employed in the top 100 engineering and metal product
firms. In a subsequent further liberalization of MRTP restrictions effective
from May 22, 1985, CO announced a list of major product groups in which
firms could enter or expand regardless of the firm's size or dominance,
provided that the product line is not reservGd for SSI production. The list
contains most major engineering products with strong export potential.
Removal from MRTP treatment means that firms can: expand or enter any
product line rather than being constrained to a "priority" list; take
advantage of the existing automatic expansion provisions; and avail of the
recent delicensing moves in major engineering product groups.
- Delicensing of 25 Industries. Among the 25 industries delicensed on March 16
are the major product groups identified for export thrust in our sector work
and in the Kapur Report: automotive ancillaries, cycles, machine tools;
hand, small, cutting tools; diesel engine sets; and industrial machinery.
The effectiveness of this delicensing will be enhanced by the recent
liberalization moves affecting MRTP companies, small-scale industries, and
industrial approval procedures. However, additional measures are needed on
the SSI reservation and procedural fronts.
- Small Industry Policy. Protection and incentives for SSIs to stay small have
been diluted by measures in the Budget. The definition of small industry has
been raised from Rs 2 million to Rs 3.5 million in fixed assets, excluding
land and buildings; the definition of ancillaries has been increased from
Rs 2.5 million to Rs 4.5 million (US$400,000) which is adequate to attain
scale economies in some product-price-quality segments of engineering. In
addition, the excise tax exemptions which were available to very small firms
(with sales not exceeding Rs 750,000) have been replaced by a graduated
phasing out of excise tax exemptions as firms grow. Full excise tax exemp-
tion will be available for up to Rs 2.5 million in sales, and gradually
declining excise tax exemptions will be available for up to Rs 7.5 million
(US$600,000) in sales.



-14-
-Flexible Use of Licensed Capacity. In the case of motor vehicles,
components, and machine tools, GOI has introduced flexibility in the use of
licensed capacity, with manufacturers allowed to make whatever vehicles and
machine tools the market requires with their installed equipment, rather than
having to make the product mix fixed at the time the license was issued.
This flexible definition of licensed capacity releases major vehicle manufac-
turers from MRTP clearances.
EXPORT INCENTIVES
-Tax Incentives. In addition to reducing corporate and income tax levels
across the board, the Budget introduced a 50% tax exemption on profits from
export sales. Since profits from domestic vs. export sales are difficult
to determine, exports as a percentage of sales are used as a proxy. This
represents a strong incentive to export, reducing the anti-export biases.
-Import-Export Passbook Scheme. The new Import-Export Policy announced in
April 1985 introduced a provision for manufacturer exporters to obtain duty
free imports of inputs and components without requiring a firm order.
Imports would be registered in the passbook; imported inputs not used in
export production would be subject to duty. This facility has the benefits
of eliminating the financing costs and delays in in the duty-drawback system.
- Replenishment Licenses. Flexibility in use of REP licenses for manufacturer-
exporters has been enlarged, for imported inputs and capital goods.
IMPORTED INPUTS, CAPITAL GOODS AND TECHNOLOGY
- Import duties on capital goods for investment projects have been reduced
significantly, from a minimum of 65% to duty levels of 0% to 40%.
-Provision for rapid approval of import of capital goods, technology knowhow,
and consultancy services has been raised to cover amounts up to Rs 10 million
equivalent (US$800,000).
-Import of capital goods for several engineering product groups, notably the
automotive industry, have been placed under Open General License, with the
objective of enabling firms to make the modernization moves necessary in
reaching international competitiveness.
-Many grades of steel have been decanalized, meaning that manufacturers will
be able to import steel directly. This liberalization is intended to
facilitate the timely delivery of proper grades of steel by engineering
product firms.
-The International Steel Price Reimbursement Scheme has been extended to
include alloys and special steels for exports. Thus, all major inputs for
engineering products now are made available at international prices.
-Procedures for companies to hire foreign consultants have been liberalized
and streamlined, removing "indigenous angle" clearances and reducing the
number of approvals required.



-15-
C. Institutional Moves
3.06    Substantial policy changes have been made recently and additional
measures are anticipated to encourage competitiveness and exports of India's
manufactured products, notably in the major engineering subsector. Complementary
institutional support now is needed to finance export-oriented enterprises and
their ancillaries, and to promote fitm-level improvements in productivity and
export marketing. Project preparation involved detailed analysis of the institu-
tions best positioned to provide these services. The Industrial Export Project
would complement policy moves made by COI by:
(a) supporting ICICI in playing a more active role in financing projects
which would improve efficiency and exports of firms manufacturing
engineering and other promising products;
(b) reorienting commercial banks' involvement in small industry financ-
ing to give greater emphasis to modernization, specialization, and
expansion, by building programs to finance engineering ancillaries:
(c) strengthening institutional and financial support by ICICI and Ex-Im
Bank to individual companies which are connitted to improving
productivity and export marketing.
3.07    Role of ICICI.  Under the Industrial Export Project--Engineering
Products, ICICI will assume a number of responsibilities to enhance its role as a
mature and successful development bank. ICICI will increase its focus on promot-
ing and financing promising export-oriented projects, with a particular emphasis
on engineering products. In addition, it will managp a Productivity Fund, which
is designed to assist private firms manufacturing engineering products to assess
and make moves needed to improve process and product technology (paras. 5.30-
5.34). In appraising subproject viability, ICICI will utilize market surveys
done and export strategies developed by firms, independently or using Ex-Im
Bank's Export Marketing Fund. In addition, ICICI will coordinate with par-
ticipating commercial banks to help ensure effective operational links between
the larger engineering firms and ancillaries financed under the Industrial Export
Project. Finally, ICICI will monitor the impact of recent and planned policy
changes and project inputs on competitiveness and exports of engineering
products. The Corporation will undertake these expanded responsibilities under
the proposed project, while reducing reliance on IBRD funds as a source of for-
eign exchange financing. These measures are consistent with ICICI management
objectives to make the institution a leader in improving the competitiveness and
exports of Indian industry, with an initial special focus on enterprises manufac-
turing engineering products. ICICI has developed the technical expertise and
client base to play a major role in this process.
3.08    Ancillary Financing.  With accelerated growth in exports of engineering
products--and reduced protection and incentives for firms which stay small--there
will be substantial scope for smaller firms which specialize, modernize and
expand as ancillaries. Given the relatively small size of most engineering
ancillaries, the commercial banks have several advantages as financial inter-
mediaries for ancillary units. The banks have an ongoing relationship with the
clients, presently meeting their working capital and a portion of their term
lending requirements, which has given the commercial banks effective leverage for



-16-
collecting on term loans. Also, the banks have developed project appraisal and
supervision skills through their SSI lending. In the major zonal offices where
most ancillary lending activity would be concentrated, the leading commercial
banks have established Industrial Credit Departments to handle working capital
and term lending needs of their industrial clients. Recognizing the importance
of commercial bank term financing of small- and medium-sized firms, in 1984 RBI
raised commercial banks' maximum term lending limit for independent loans to
Rs 10 million.
3.09    Export Marketing.  Sector analysis demonstrated that, if India is to
recapture its share of LDC engineering exports and exploit more effectively its
comparative advantage particularly in Western markets, major improvements in
export marketing will be required. Analysis indicates that export promotion
measures should be guided by the following basic strategy:
(a) Selectivity. Promotional measures should give selective encourage-
ment to activities which lead away from the "trader approach" toward
long-term commitment to exports.
(b) Concentration on Company-level Promotion. Most export promotion
activi:ies are effectively undertaken or commissioned by individual
firms, to enable the focus on a firm's particular strengths and
weaknesses relative to the requirements of target markets.
(c) Shared Financial Commitment. The company should have a significant
financial stake in measures supported--to increase the company's
commitment to obtaining value for money.
(d) Freedom of Choice between Service Suppliers. Wherever possible, the
company should be free to choose between private or public service
suppliers, or to undertake export promotion activities internally.
3.10    Project preparation work included an assessment of existing export promo-
tion measures and institutions 1/ to identify the most appropriate organization
to help finance company-level export marketing moves under the project. Ex-Im
Bank was established to play a catalytic role in promoting product and project
exports, through financial and other means of assistance. Ex-Im is in a rela-
tively strong position to assess country conditions and the merits of market
penetration efforts. Being 100% Government owned, with Board representation of
top officials of the Ministries of Commerce, Industry and Finance, Ex-Im will be
an appropriate channel for official funding of company export promotion
activities. At the same time, being a well-run financial institution focusing on
exports, it will be able to do even-handed scrutiny on the merits of individual
proposals, and should not be seen by other institutions as competing in the
"retailing" of export promotion services. Finally, by sponsoring these
activities, Ex-Im Bank would build its own product and market know-how, and be in
a better position to provide information to ICICI and other lenders on the market
viability of investment proposals.
1/ This assessment of export promotion institutions is available in the Project
File.



-17-
3.11    Productivity Improvement.  Under the project ICICI, working in close
collaboration with the Association of Indian Engineering Industries (AIEI), would
manage a Productivity Fund. The Productivity Fund would help finance engineering
firms or groups in making moves to increase the exportability of products
including: identification of the gap between present process/product levels and
international standards, formulation of a strategy for bridging the gap, and
roves to step up process and product upgrading. Significant capital investments
and technology transfers emanating from this analysis would be considered as
modernization investments, falling under the term lcnding component. Through its
professional services, AIEI works as a catalyst for developing and influencing
policy in the engineering industry. AIEI's 1,648 members represent large and
small engineering companies, in the private and public sectors. AIEI also has 33
affiliated associations and five affiliated technical institutions. Due to the
effectiveness of AIEI's information, advisory and consultative services to
industry and Government, AIEI was selected to help ICICI promote the use of the
Productivity Fund among appropriate engineering firms.
D. Product-Market Potential
3.12    Light engineering products have constituted over 40Z of India's engineer-
ing product exports. From 1970/71 to 1982/83, exports of light engineering
products grew more rapidly than the 22% average for engineering products overall.
India has impressive engineering capabilities, labor cost advantages, and a low
present market share. High export growth rates should be possible now that COX
has taken substantial first steps in rectifying policies which have undermined
competitiveness of Indian industry.
3.13    Comparative Advantage.  Mission and ICICI analyses indicated that India
has dynamic comparative advantage in light engineering products. Domestic
resource cost calculations by ICICI indicate that production costs of larger
light engineering companies compare favorably with international costs. Except
for industrial castings, light engineering products were among those with the
most favorable DRCs, particularly when adjusted for international steel prices.
However, as with most DRC calculations, these comparisons hide major quality
discrepancies between Indian products and those of international standard.
Measures are needed to both reduce costs and improve quality for a given product,
if Indian manufacturers are going to expand sales to major markets.
3.14    Production organization, costs and process technology were analyzed for
major engineering export product groups. In all cases--including bicycles and
parts, vehicle components for the after-market, stamped and cast handtools, and
low to medium quality castings--Indian costs are below international levels, but
for inferior products for which there is limited scope in expanding exports.
Analysis by mission engineers indicated that after making capital investments
required to upgrade technology, expand scales of production and improve product
quality design, Indian production costs would compare favorably with interna-
tional levels. The subsector report analyzed major product-market segments in
which Indian manufacturers would be strongly competitive. With liberalized
capacity expansion allowances, reduction in anti-export biases, and availability
of inputs at international prices, engineering firms making the upgrading moves
will be well positioned to compete in export markets.



-18-
IV. ROLE OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
4.01    India's organized financial system is composed of:  the Reserve Bank of
India (RBI); a large nationalized commercial banking system; 27 small private
banks; 16 foreign banks; specialized development finance institutions at the
national, state, district, and village levels; and a number of savings
institutions. In addition, the system includes a number of capital market
organizations and non-bank financial institutions including finance companies,
hire-purchase companies, and rural banks.
4.02    Institutional Finance for Industry.  The main sources of term finance
for medium and large industries are the all-India financial institutions 1/
followed by the commercial banks. At the state level, the State Finance
Corporations (SFCs) finance small- and medium-scal& industries, and the State
Industrial Development Corporations promote and lend to larger industries with
government shareholdings. The commercial banks are the major sources of term and
working capital credit for small industry. In 1982/1983 gross fixed capital
formation in industry amounted to Rs 138 billion, or 26% of CDP. Of this,
investments by the private corporate and cooperative sectors amounted to Rs 34.7
billion. While term lending institutions financed only 13% of gross fixed
irdustrial investment in 1982/1983, their disbursements totaled Rs 17.9 billion
or 51.5% of investment in the private sector.
4.03    The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) coordinates the
activities of all-India institutions and provides financing Lhrough SFCs, SIDCs,
and commercial banks. IDBI and IFCI have concentrated on the financing of tradi-
tional subsectors, e.g. textiles, sugar, food products, cement and electricity
generation and on joint/public sector projects. ICICI is involved more in sub-
sectors such as engineering products, chemicals and petrochemicals, electrical
equipment and electronics. Joint financing of larger projects now is well-
established. ICICI is the most important source of foreign currency financing
for private industry, accounting for about 80% of institutional foreign exchange
lending.
A. Role of ICICI
4.04    ICICI, set up in 1955 to promote and finance private industry in India,
was one of the first development finance companies assisted by the World Bank
Group. ICICI remains a successful and well-managed DFC. On December 31, 1984,
ICICI's assets totalled Rs 17.6 billion; its outstanding loan and investment
portfolio equalled Rs 15.7 billion. In the 1980-1984 period, ICICI increased its
lending op--ations at a compounded annual rate of about 222. ICICI has diver-
sified its operations and now offers a broad range of banking services.
1/ Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India (ICICI), Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI).



-19-
4.05    Impact and Characteristics of Past Lending.  As of December 31, 1984,
ICICI had approved direct financing of Ro 30.0 billion for 4,100 projects.
Engineering-- consisting of metal products, mechanical and electrical machinery
and transport equipment--accounted for 24% of total approvals. Other main sub-
sectors finsnced are: chemical and petrochemical industries (22%); textiles
(12X); basic metals (9%); cement (92); and pulp and paper (6%). ICICI's clients
are medium LO large private enterprises. In 1983, the average fixed asset base
of ICICI's borrowers was about Rs 120 million. ICICI loans averaged Rs 14
million. About 55% of ICICI's financing was for balancing, modernization,
replacement and expansion (BMRE). The geographical distribution of projects
reflects industrial concentrations and infrastructure, particularly in Western
India. However, ICICI has diversified its portfolio; about 362 of ICICI's
financiag over the last five years has been for projects in backward areas.
4.06    Lending to Engineering Firms.  Table 1 summarizes ICICI's foreign cur-
rency loan sanctions to engineering product firms in the 1982-1984 period.
Table 1: FOREIGN CURRENCY LOAN SANCTIONS
(1982-1984)
1982    X    1983    Z    1984    2
Metal Products                      83      8      45    3      63      4
Machinery (except electricals)    176    15       210   14    120       7
Electrical Equipment                103     9      136    9    222    13
Transport Equipment                233    21       46    3    236    15
Subtotal, Engineering              595    53      437   29    644    39
Other Industries                    517    47    1080   71   1008    61
TOTAL, F.E. Sanctions            1,112   100   1,517  100   1,652  100
Source: ICICI
Foreign currency sanctions to the engineering subsector during the 1982-1984
period averaged about Rs 558 million, or 39Z of the total foreign currency
sanctions. With the actual and planned changes in industrial licensing
procedures, ICICI has more scope and motivation to promote projects in promising
product groups. Also, the increase in the ceiling for direct, independent lend-
ing by term-lending institutions from Rs 10 million to Rs 30 million has given
ICICI more flexibility to finance projects without going through the consortium.
B. Commercial Banking System
4.07    In 1969, GOI nationalized 14 large private banks, with the objective of
using them to accelerate development in priority areas--small-scale agriculture,
industry and retail trade. In 1980, GOI nationalized six more private banks; the
share of public sector banks in total deposits increased to 92%. In 1982, the
system consisted of 28 government-controlled banks of which eight were part of



-20-
the State Bank of India Group (SBIG), 27 private banks and 16 foreign-owned
banks. Together they had 35,000 branches. By the end of 1982, the commercial
banking system's assets totalled Rs 830 billion. In 1982, SBIG accounted for 35%
of assets and 36% of advances. Foreign banks represented only about 4% of total
assets of the system. Over 40% of assets are held in cash resources and invest-
ments in securities specified by GOI and RBI, which reflects GOI's desire to
allocate savings to priority sectors, specialized institutions and the Central
Government.
4.08    Indian banks are having difficulties operating internationally due to
their low capital base. To strengthen this base, in 1982 and 1983 COI increased
paid-in capital of the nationalized banks and allowed them to retain up to 40X of
overseas profits. One of GOI's objectives during the Seventh Plan period is to
build up the equity base of nationalized banks. The proposed project will sup-
port this objective by agreeing to GOI's retaining the proceeds of the ancillary
financing component as capitalization of the participating banks (para. 6.06).
4.09    Term Lending to Industry.  As of December 31, 1933, commercial bank
lending to industry amounted to RS 131.9 billion. Outstanding term loans to
industry totalled Rs 28.4 billion. Commercial banks' substantial role in
industrial finance should increase, now that restrictions have been lifted. The
banks now can lend independently to industrial firms when project costs do not
exceed Rs 15 million. On larger projects, the banks' involvement in term lending
has been passive co-financing while the banks have become a major force in term
lending to small- and medium-scale firms.
Table 2: COMMERCIAL BANKS' OUTSTANDING TERM LOANS
(1979-1983)
(Rs billions)
Z of     Term Loans
Period Ending June 30  Term Loans  Total Bank Credit  Term Loans  to Industry
1979                   31.4            168.3            18.7           11.9
1980                   39.3            184.3            21.3          13.8
1981                   50.4            213.2            23.6           17.6
1982  (March)          68.8            291.6            23.6          24.0
1983  (March)          81.3            344.3            23.6          28.4
Source:  Reserve Bank of India:  Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in
India 1982/83.
4.10    Lending to SSIs.  Outstanding loans to about one million SSIs at the end
of 1982 amounted to Rs 42.5 billion. The average loan size was extremely small--
Rs 40,000--which reflects the tendency to proliferate the number of SSIs, rather
than building the capacities of more capable small firms. While all banks are
expected to lend to SSIs as part of their priority lending, five banks are major
term lenders (Table B-3). SBIG accounted for about 28%; Punjab National Bank,
9%; Bank of Baroda, 7%; Bank of India, 6%; and Canara, 5%.



-21-
4.11    Financing Engineering Industries.  As of March 31, 1984, outstanding
loans by commecial banks to firms manufacturing engineering products amounted
to Rs 50 billion, with term loans totalling Rs 3.5 billion (Table B-4). Four
major commercial banks dominate industrial lending in general and financing of
engineering industries in particular: State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda,
Punjab National Bank and Canara Bank. As of December 30, 1980, about one-third
of the loans were below Rs 2.5 million; 25% was between Rs 2.5 and Rs 10 million.
Commercial banks' loans to the engineering industries are mainly in five states
in which industrial activity is concentrated: Maharastra (28.8%), West Bengal
(13.7Z), Tamil Nadu (9.3%), Delhi (8.5%), and Karnataka (7.9Z). With 70% of
existing engineering loans in five centers, a geographically focused approach for
funding engineering ancillaries is possible.
C. Export-Import Bank of India
4.12    The Ex-Im Bank was organized in January 1981 to finance and promote
Indian exports. Operations were launched in March 1982. Export finance func-
tions of the International Finance Wing of rDBI were transferred to Ex-Im Bank.
With the Ex-Im Bank Act of 1981, Ex-Im is empowered to undertake a broad range of
export finance and promotion activities. Ex-Im has initiated operations in:
export bills rediscounting; lines of credit to foreign governments and financial
institutions for importing Indian goods; direct financial assistance to Indian
exporters; export credit refinance; and overseas investment in Indian joint
venture abroad. Recently, Ex-Im Bank has decided to provide a limited amount of
term finance for export enterprises, and to support export marketing activities
of Indian firms.
4.13    Ex-Im has authorized capital of Rs 2.0 billion of which Rs 1.28 billion
was paid-in at the end of 1984. As of December 31, 1984, its total assets
amounted to Rs 6.7 billion consisting of loans and advances (55Z), investments
(25.3%), bills purchased and discounted (7%), cash and bank balances overseas
(72), and other assets (6Z). Assets were financed by borrowings from the Reserve
Bank and COI (64.8Z), equity and reserves (22.2%), bonds and debentures (7.9%)
and other short term liabilities (5.1%). During 1984, the Ex-Im Bank recorded
growth of 25% in assets. With its relatively conservative debt:equity ratio of
3.2:1 and rapid increase in volume, the Ex-Im's net profit in 1984 increased by
36% over 1983 to Rs 120 million. The Ex-Im Bank has started raising funds in
international commercial markets and has obtained substantial short term lines of
credit.
4.14    The Ex-Im Bank is well-managed.  It has a board of 12 members, which
includes Secretaries of the Ministries of Finance, Commerce, External Affairs,
and Industry. Other key members are the Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of
India, Special Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Chairman of IDBI, presidents
of selected commercial banks, and members of the export community.  Ex-Im's
organization is divided into six groups: project finance; trade finance; over-
seas investment; planning; administration; and coordination. Due to Ex-Im's
liberal compensation policies and dynamic management, it has been able to attract
and retain high-caliber staff. Ex-Im Bank is welL-positioned to discharge its
responsibilities under the proposed project.



-22-
Interest Rates and Inflation
4.15    Interest rates on bank deposits and lending are set by the Covernment.
Rates are differentiated on the basis of activity, purpose, maturity, size, and
region. While market forces are not the main determinant of interest rate
levels, India has maintained positive real interest rates for term lending for
industry. During 1978-84, the annual average inflation rate as determined by the
Wholesale Price Index was 8.3%, well below the normal industrial term lending
rates of 14% to 15Z. The ability to maintain positive real rates has been in
part a function of conservative fiscal and monetary policies, which has helped
protect the Indian economy from external shocks. The inflation rate over the
next few years is expected to average about 62, roughly the same as the projected
rate of international inflation. The proposed lending rates under the project
are projected to be positive over the life of the Loans (paras. 6.02, 6.06).



-23-
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives, Components, Financing Plan
5.01    Objectives.  The proposed Industrial Export Project--Engineering Products
is designed to complement and support policy measures recently taken and planned
by GOI to increase competitiveness and exports of engineering and other manufac-
tured products. The policy measures and institutional moves are designed to
improve competitiveness of India' s engineering industry, which should result in
substantial export growth over the medium-term (para. 7.01). Many measures are
geared to improving the cost and quality of Indian engineering goods, recognizing
that structural change is a prerequisite for major, sustained export growth.
With liberalization in capacity licensing and size controls on large firms,
reduction in incentives for firms to stay small, and improvements in export
incentives--financial institutions now need to respond with term finance geared
to efficiency and scale improvements in larger firms and their ancillaries. The
project embodies a set of institutional measures by ICICI, the commercial banks,
and Ex-Im Bank to support engineering and other firms in increasing competitive-
ness and exports. For the first time, the leading commercial banks, which are
major sources of term finance particularly for small and medium industry, will be
Lncluded as intermediaries in an IBRD loan for industrial finance. In this
operation, the commercial banks will be responsible for term loans to engineering
ancillary firms, helping to shift their focus from financing a proliferation of
SSIs to promoting the growth, modernization and specialization of smaller firms
as ancillaries.
5.02    The project also shifts the focus of export promotion from general market
information and trade trips sponsored by government and quasi-government agencies
to direct support of strategic marketing measures by individual companies. Under
the project, the Export-Import Bank would share the costs of eligible export
marketing activities by individual engineering firms, which is where export
initiatives need to take place. Likewise, in encouraging firms to improve
efficiency, the project would help fund foreign consultants and technicians hired
by engineering firms to assess means to improve costs and quality of products and
processes. ICICI would manage the Productivity Fund, working in close collabora-
tion with AIEI and other industry associations. The institutional arrangements
under the first Industrial Export Project should be effective both in realizing
the objectives of this operation and in providing a sound institutional basis for
expanded future lending to private industry.



-24-
5.03    Total costs of the Industrial Export Project would be US$1 billion
equivalent, with US$250 million in IBRD financing to cover foreign exchange
portions of the four project components:
(a) Term Lending by ICICI. US$160 million of IBRD funding will be lent
to ICICI for term financing of medium and large enterprises which
meet agreed eligibility criteria, with 60Z earmarked for export-
oriented investments by firms making engineering products. 1/
(b) AnciLlary Financing Component. US$70 million of IBRD funds will be
made available through GOI to selected commercial banks for financ-
ing expansion and upgrading investments of engineering ancillaries.
(c) Productivity Fund. ICICI will manage a US$10 million Productivity
Fund, to help finance consultants, technicians and small hardware
inputs needed by larger engineering firms and ancillaries in improv-
ing productivity and quality.
(d) Export Marketing Fund. The Export-Import Bank of India will manage
a US$10 million Export Marketing Fund, which will help finance
eligible export development activities of engineering firms in
product groups identified for export thrust.
5.04    Financing Plan.  Under the Industrial Export Project, IBRD financing
would cover the foreign exchange portions of eligible term loans made by ICICI
and participating commercial banks. With foreign exchange expected to average
about 40% of subproject costs, the IBRD loans would help mobilize substantial
local currency financing for export oriented engineering firms and their ancil-
laries from ICICI, the commercial banks, and private sponsors' equity. In
addition, ICICI would at least match the US$160 million IBRD loan with foreign
commercial financing. Under the Export Marketing and Productivity Funds, IBRD
financing would cover up to 50% of individual firms' expenditures for eligible
export marketing and productivity improvement moves; the complement would be
financed by private sponsors. Thus, while the Industrial Export Project would
require no GOI budgetary funding beyond the IBRD-financed amounts, substantial
counterpart funds would be mobilized from the financial institutions and private
industry. The US$1 billion in total project costs (with about US$450 million in
foreign exchange for equipment and inputs), is geared to cause a significant
shift in the actions taken and investments made by private manufacturers in
increasing competitiveness and exports. The following table summarizes estimated
project costs and sources of funds:
1/ Defined as product groups falling in categories 69, 71, 72 and 73, of
the United Nations Standard Industrial Trade Classification and castings
from category 36.



-25-
Table 3: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Foreign                          Private
IBRD Commercial ICICI PCBs Ex-Im Sponsors Total
ICIcI                  160      160        180    -       -      260       760 a/
Commercial Banks        70       -          -     60      -        70      200
Productivity Fund       10       -          -      -      -        10       20
Export Marketing Fund  10        -          -      -      -        10       20
Total                  250      160        180    60      -      350    1,000
a/  Anticipates a 50:50 blending of IBRD and foreign commercial funding on
60% of IBRD loan.
B. Financing Export-oriented Projects
5.05    Under the proposed Industrial Export Project, an IBRD loan of US$160
million on standard Bank terms and conditions will be made to ICICI, with a GOI
guarantee. IBRD funds would be used to finance foreign exchange portions of
ICICI subloans for balancing, modernization, expansion and new private sector
investment projects which meet agreed eligibility criteria.  Of the US$160 mil-
lion in IBRD funding, US$100 million (over 60%) would finance eligible invest-
ments by firms manufacturing engineering products. The remaining US$60 million
would finance export-oriented investments in other product groups. All projects
financed would need to meet the following eligibility criteria in addition to
normal standards of financial viability:
(a) Firms which manufacture products with strong export potential,
confirmed by ICICI's market appraisal as well as attractive DRCs and
internal economic rates of return, demonstrating comparative
advantage;
(b) Investments consistent with a significant expansion of sales to more
demanding export markets. ICICI would establish that the quality,
scale and productivity improvements would have significant impact on
enhancing the exportability of a firm's products; and
(c) Firms which have prepared a strategic export plan which: (i) treats
expanded exports as an important element of overall strategy,
(ii) incorporates measures to reach international price and quality
standards in the product-market segment on which the firm intends to
concentrate, and (iii) includes appropriate marketing and technological
arrangements which are consistent with a significant expansion in
exports.



-26-
In addition, priority would be given to firms which meet one or more of the
following criteria: (a) investments geared exclusively to expanding exports;
(b) products identified as "thrust industries" (para. 3.03); tc) investments
resulting in substantial development of ancillaries/sub-contracting; and
(d) firms which have proven capabilities and concrete plans for entering Western
markets, which have strong scope for Indian exports of light engineering
products. Bi-annually, ICICI will monitor firms' activities and investments as
they relate to expanding exports, as well as planned vs. actual export levels
(para. 5.35).
5.06    Quantitative means to define the export-oriented nature of eligible
subprojects (e.g. at least 10% of output exported before, 20% after the
investment) were considered. However, such thresholds were considered inad-
visable since: exports will depend upon the success of policy measures in reduc-
ing the gap between profitability of domestic and export sales; export obliga-
tions are difficult to enforce; and firms presently exporting are not necessarily
those capable of expanded exports. In addition, a major objective is to improve
the productivity and quality of engineering products, through increased domestic
competition and upgrading moves. With these concerns, and given that both GOI
and ICICI share the objective of increasing engineering product exports, more
qualitative and firimi-specific eligibility criteria are considered appropriate.
5.07    For the US$60 million of the IBRD loan to ICICI for financing non-
engineering enterprises, the IBRD loan would help finance export-oriented
investments, in subsectors in which Indian manufacturers have revealed
competitiveness. Major subsectors are expected to include textiles and garments,
leather products, computer software, and some agroindustries. Projects will meet
agreed thresholds relating to financial viability, economic rates of return, and
domestic resource costs; these investment projects also would incorporate firm-
level export plans. The 601 of the ICICI loan allocated to export-oriented
engineering subprojects will result in a significant shift in the volume and type
of engineering investments financed by ICICI, particularly since IBRD funds would
be combined with foreign commercial borrowings in financing eligible subprojects.
The remaining portion of the loan to ICICI (representing 24Z of the IBRD-financed
package) will help ICICI move the focus of its overall operations to include a
higher proportion to export-oriented enterprises, building upon the economic and
promotional work already undertaken by ICICI. ICICI recently completed an exten-
sive export survey of its clients, as agreed under the Fourteenth IBRD Loan, and
was a partner in our sector work on export development and finance. The
project's proposed targeting of export-oriented engineering products--with a
relatively small component for other export-oriented investment projects is
consistent with our approach on the policy front, where our sector work and the
recommendations of the Kapur Committee focussed on engineering products-but heve
informed industrial policy reform across industries.



-27-
Organization and Staffing
5.08    To enhance its product group expertise, ICICI management reorganized
operations on subsector lines in 1983. Its Operations Group now is divided into
four divisions. Operations Divimion IV handles engineering products: electrical
equipment, machinery, transport equipment and metal products. The Deputy General
Manager (Operations) will be responsible for the segment of the loan earmarked
for engineering subprojects, the Productivity Fund, liaison with the commercial
banks involved in financing engineering ancillaries under the project, and
monitoring of overall project activities and their impact. Present staffing of
Division IV includes: 8 financial analysts, 5 engineers, and 5 lawyers.
Division IV will be expanded by at least four staff members to enhance economics,
export marketing and technical expertise of the Division. A new Unit has been
created to manage the Productivity Fund and to work with Division IV in identify-
ing and promoting export-oriented engineering projects. A competent manager for
the Fund has been appointed and the initial staffing plan developed (Annex 3).
Initial staffing plans were agreed upon during negotiations; prior to loan effec-
tiveness the agreed additional staff for Division rv and the Productivity Fund
will be in place.
Financial Aspects
5.09    Portfolio Quality.  ICICI's financial performance has been impressive,
particularly since 1981. During the 1981-1984 period, net profits after tax as a
percentage of average net worth averaged 23Z compared with 16% in 1980. Improved
profits were due to larger volumes, lower effective tax rates and cost controls.
ICICI's spreads averaged 2.82 from 1980-1984; administrative expenses as a per-
centage of average total assets declined from 0.6% in 1981 to 0.5% in 1984. The
quality of ICICI's portfolio remains sound. At the end of 1984, there were 241
projects in arrears ikivolving Rs 1.8 billion, affecting 11.71 of ICICI's
portfolio. However, the principal amounts in arrears totalled Rs 195 million, or
1.3% of the principal outstanding. ICICI's good collections are due to its
supervision and collection systems and concentration on large, well-managed
companies. Collection ratios have averaged over 852 during the 1980-1984 period.
Most ICICI loans are secured by fixed assets and reserves are adequate to cover
potential write-offs.
5.10    Prospects and Key Ratios.  With the continued improvement in the invest-
ment climate and promotional efforts, business prospects for ICICI are good.
ICICI's management expects its lending operations to increase by 20Z annually in
current prices over the 1985-1989 period, which is achievable given ICICI's track
record and the relatively small base. In 1984, ICICI's approvals totalled Rs 5.2
billion and are projected to reach Rs 13.0 billion by 1989. Foreign exchange
loans are expected to average 302 of annual lending, with reliance on commercial
borrowings for the majority of ICICI's foreign exchange sources of funds.
ICICI's net profits after taxes are estimated to increase from Rs 228 million in
1984 to Rs 497 million in 1989. Return on equity is projected to remain above
17% throughout the 1985-1989 period. The loan and investment portfolios are
expected to increase at about the same rate from Rs 15.7 billion in 1984 to



-28-
Rs 34.3 billion in 1989. ICICI's debt service coverage ratio is projected to
remain above 1.2:1 through the 1985-1989 period assuming that the loan collection
ratio remains above 80%. With its past performance and strong management, ICICI
should have no difficulty complying with the minimum debt service requirement of
1.1:1 under the project. ICICI plans to continue strengthening its equity base.
In September 1984, ICICI raised Rs 67 million by issuing new shares. ICICI's
debt:equity ratio is projected to remain well below the 12:1 limit required under
the project.
5.11    Commercial Financing.  From January 1, 1985 to June 30, 1987, ICICI would
need about US$490 million to meet its foreign exchange requirements. As of
December 31, 1984, ICICI's total foreign exchange resources amounted to US$94
million, leaving a gap of US$396 million. Under the project, ICICI would under-
take to mobilize foreign commercial borrowings to at least match the US$160
million in IBRD funding between ICICI Loan signing and December 31, 1988. Since
the commercial loans would tend to have shorter maturities, ICICI is likely to
continue blending commercial and IBRD sources in financing projects. ICICI has
established a sound reputation with international banks, and has received
favorable terms on its commercial borrowings. In connection with the Fourteenth
Bank Loan, ICICI complied with the agreement to raise US$150 million from commer-
cial sources ahead of schedule, and ICICI should be able to raise the necessary
commercial borrowings during the project period.
Strategy Statement
5.12    In 1977, ICICT adopted a Statement of Financial and Operating Strategy,
which set out, in general terms, ICICI's lending strategy. Six broad areas were
given priority: export industries, power and transport, enterprises related to
agriculture, basic industries mass consumption goods, and balancing and modern-
ization projects. With the Fourteenth Loan, ICICI updated this Statement with
the objective of sharpening priorities, and emphasizing project promotion
activities. The revised Statement also reflects ICICI's resource policy includ-
ing plans for further diversification on foreign currency sources. Under the
proposed project, ICICI will amend its strategy statement to reflect: the
expanded emphasis on export-oriented projects, with a particular focus on
engineering products; eligibility criteria; operations of the Productivity Fund;
means for coordinating with the Ex-Im Bank and the commercial banks; and monitor-
ing and evaluation criteria. The revised draft ICICI Strategy Statement was
discussed and agreed in substance during negotiations and would need to be
approved by ICICI's Board prior to loan effectiveness; future changes would be
made with prior consent of IBRD.
C. Ancillary Financing Component
5.13    Under the proposed project, US$70 million of IBRD funding will be used to
finance engineering ancillaries. The US$70 million is small relative to commer-
cial banks' present financing of the engineering subsector, which constitutes
about 25% of the banks' total term lending to industry. The amount under the
proposed project is considered appropriate since this represents the first Bank
Group involvement with the commercial banks in term lending to industry and the



-29-
objective of the component is to focus commercial banks' attention on financing
existing smaller engineering ancillary firms in their expansion, modernization
and specialization efforts. The foreign currency portion of term loans by a
participating commercial bank to an eligible engineering ancillary firm would
qualify for IBRD financing. Four major banks--State Bank of India Group, Bank of
Baroda, Canara Bank, and Punjab National Bank--would take the lead under the
Industrial Export Project. These banks are relatively efficient, have estab-
lished term lending capabilities for smaller firms, and are in a position to
execute the project with relatively modest changes in organization, staffing and
procedures.
Eligible Enterprises and Activities
5.14    Engineering product firms which supply a substantial portion of their
output (components, processes and finished products) to a larger engineering firm
or which have satisfactory arrangements for such a tie-up would be eligible for
financing under the project. Preference would be given to firms which are sub-
contractors to engineering firms financed by ICICI, to help ensure operational
linkages. Funding could cover import of equipment and inputs, and lump sum
paymentR for import of technical know-how. Major features of eligible sub-
pro- .b would be:
Size of the Enterprise                 :         Up to US$2 million in fixed assets
(excluding land and buildings)
prior to the credit
Maximum Amount of Foreign Currency   :           US$500,000
Credit
Minimum Foreign Currency Credit        :         US$50,000
Promoter's Contribution                :         At least 20Z of the cost of
engineering ancillary project
Debt:Equity Ratio of the Enterprise  :           Not exceeding 2:1 normally but in
no case exceeding 3:1
Debt Service Coverage                  :         Not less than 1.5
Domestic Resource Cost                 :         Acceptable
Terms of Assistance to Subborrower
o Lending Rate to Subborrower        :         15% per annum 1/
o Repayment Period                             3 to 10 years including a grace
period of 1 to 3 years
o Commitment Charge                  :         Up to 1X p.a. on undrawn balance
1/ Maximum non-subsidized rate for commercial bank's term loans to industry,
established by Reserve Bank of India.



-30-
Participating Commercial Banks (PCB)
5.15    SBIG is well organized for term lending and should be able to participate
in the proposed project with minor adjustments in internal procedures. The three
other banks have developed term lending capabilities, and have established
measures to strengthen organization and staffing to enable effective ancillary
financing operations. Each PCB will need to comply with agreed conditions of
participation including: (a) agreed organization, staffing and training to help
ensure effective implementation of the ancillary financing component;
(b) ratification by the PCB Board of a satisfactory Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures for this component; (c) installation of adequate procedures
for appraisal, supervision, and collections; and (d) adoption of standard report-
ing formats. A series of meetings were held with management of the commercial
banks, RBI, and the Ministry of Finance to outline features of the ancillary
component ard to detail conditions of participation. During negotiations, the
detailed action programs of each PCB were reviewed, agreement on conditions of
participation were confirmed.
5.16    State Bank of India Group (SBIG) is the largest and oldest bank in India.
Established as the Imperial Bank of India, SBIG consists of the State Bank of
India and seven subsidiaries. RBI owns 93% of SBI's shares; the balance is held
by private shareholders. In 1982, SBIG accounted for 34.8% of the total assets
of the commercial banking system and 36% of advances. With its network of over
9,000 branches, SBIG has national coverage, with strong organization for
industrial lending in major production centers (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi,
West Bengal, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh). SBIG is fairly decentralized. Its
operations are divided into 13 circles, each managed by a Chief General Manager,
who reports directly to the Managing Director; each circle oversees about 50
regional offices. The Head Office of SBIG undertakes corporate functions, with
staff responsible for planning, monitoring and support services. Industrial term
loans of up to Rs 10 million are approved at the circle level. However,
proposals of above Rs 2.5 million are referred to the Industrial Finance
Department (IFD) at the Corporate office for comments and clearance to ensure
quality control and bank-wide consistency. SBICts appraisal reports are of good
quality, including marketing and financial aspects. They do not include the
calculations of internal economic rate of return or domestic resource cost
analysis, which would be required for subprojects financed under the Industrial
Export Project. As the largest of the banks, SBIG has a substantial exposure to
industrial lending, notably in the engineering subsector. In 1983, its
industrial loans amounted to Rs 55.9 billion, with Rs 12.2 billion in
engineering. Term loans to industry totalled Rs 2.9 billion in '983. SBIG
management has prepared an action plan for implementing the ancilliary financing
component which includes: organization and staffing at head office and major
industrial branches; formats for subproject appraisal and supervision; and
training/orientation for this program (Project File). SBIG management has agreed
that appraisal formats will include key elements to ensure adequate technical and
marketing arrangements by engineering ancillaries as well as IERR and DRCS.
During negotiations GOI confirmed that measures would be taken to ensure
appropriate equity arrangements enabling SBIG's effective participation in the
project.



-31-
5.17    Bank of Baroda (BB).  The Bank of Baroda was founded in 1908 as a private
bank; together with other commercial banks, it was nationalized in 1969. BB has
continued to perform well since nationalization. In 1983, with its total assets
of Rs 58 billion and a branch network of more than 1,700, it was the second
largest bank in India. Bank of Baroda has the largest overseas branch network
among Indian banks with 58 offices in 13 countries. Local branches are
concentrated in: Uttar Pradesh (293), Rajasthan (218), Maharashtra (200), West
Bengal (57), Tamil Nadu (62), Andhra Pradesh (38), and Delhi (39). Bank of
Baroda is still relatively centralized. Lending decisions involving over Rs 5
million are taken by the Credit Committee at the Head Office. Commercial and
industrial credit loans are processed and appraised at the Zonal office or major
branches and are passed on to the General Manager in charge of credit. Term
lending to industry accounts for about 6Z of BB's total industrial lending. Bank
of Baroda would need to make some modifications in its structure and procedures
to enable it to participate in the project. Prior to participation, management
would implement an agreed initial action program on organization, staffing,
training, and systems.
5.18    Punjab National Bank (PNB).  Punjab National Bank was nationalized in
1969. As of December 31, 1983, PNB's total assets totalled Rs 5.8 billion,
slightly lower than Bank of Baroda and Bank of India. In 1983, PNB had 2,000
branches throughout the country and 4 branches in the United Kingdom. PNB has
about 40 regional offices and 11 zonal offices which supervise the branches.
PNB's lending has been concentrated in Delhi followed by Uttar Pradesh, Punjab
and Maharashtra. PNB is now one of the fastest growing nationalized banks and
among the most profitable. The bulk of PNB's lending is from 200 major branches,
which are staffed with engineers and financial analysts. PNB appears to be
applying relatively rigorous standards. Appraisal reports include discounted
cash flows and stipulate a maximum debt:equity ratio of 2:1 and a minimum debt
service ratio of 1.2. As with Bank of Baroda, PNB is fairly centralized in its
lending decisions; all proposals over Rs 4.0 million are passed to Head Office
for final approval. The General Manager, Credit in the Head Office is respon-
sible for all major credit decisions in consultation with the Executive Director
and the Chairman. Overall, PNB is well positioned to participate in the project,
once conditions of participation are met.
5.19    Canara Bank.  Canara Bank is the fourth largest bank in India, with
assets totalling about Rs 44.2 billion at the end of 1983. Canara's main base is
in the Southern states with its Headquarters located in Bangalore, Karnataka. Of
its total 1,393 branches in 1982, 398 branches were in Karnataka followed by
Tamil Nadu (312), Maharashtra (122), Andhra Pradesh (100), Bihar (53), Delhi (32)
and West Bengal (29). The bulk of term loans to industries are generated in
major branches in Bombay, Bangalore, Madras and Hyderabad. Canara would be in a
relatively strong position to focus on financing engineering ancillaries in
Southern India. Canara is well managed. Its organizational structure is similar
to that of the Bank of Punjab and Baroda of Baroda. Canara Bank has prepared a
draft Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for the ancillary develop-
ment program. The Statement incorporates arrangements for organization, staffing
and training at the head office and key branches; eligibility criteria; terms and
conditions and appraisal standards.



-32-
5.20    Flow of Funds.  During project preparation and appraisal, alternative
arrangements for involving the commercial banks in financing engineering ancil-
laries under the proposed project were explored. GOI, RBI, and IBRD recognized
that commercial banks were the appropriate intermediaries for this component.
Various means were pursued to ensure that the involvement by the commercial banks
would represent a profitable operation and not merely another "priority"
requirement. This financial inducement--combined with the banks' direct par-
ticipation in an engineering export program with World Bank support--were judged
to be important in getting commercial bank management to reinforce their
capabilities in financing the growth and modernization of stronger small- and
medium-scaLe firms as ancillaries. After pursuing a series of alternativeos, GOI
proposed that the IBRD-financed amounts lent by participating commercial banks
for eligible engineering ancillary subprojects remain with the banks as OI
equity, with GOI responsible for repaying IBRD. This arrangement has major
advantages. Commercial banks will have strong financial inducements for lending
to eligible engineering ancillaries under the project. In addition, this use of
funds meets one of COI's central objectives in the Seventh Plan--to increase the
equity base of the commercial banks, which are severely undercapitalized. Alsc,
IBRD would have direct operational links with the commercial banks and with
subprojects financed through supervision, subproject review, and procurement and
disbursement procedures, which is important, since this component represents the
first involvement of the banks in IBRD-financed term lending to industry.
5.21    Legal Arrangements.  To ensure proper appraisal, end-use, and collections
by the participating commercial banks:
(a) The Loan Agreement between the Bank and GOI specifies for the ancil-
lary financing component: subproject eligibility criteria; par-
ticipation conditions for the banks; onlending terms and conditions
to final borrowers; appraisal standards; procurement, disbursement,
and reporting requirements; funds flow arrangements; and provisions
for subproject review and monitoring by IBRD. These features are
summarized in Annex 1.
(b) OI would sign a Financial Agreement satisfactory to the Bank with
each PCB, for the onlending up to US$70 million in the aggregate
contain the same major elements as Bank-GOI Loan Agreement. Prior
to Loan effectiveness, GOI would sign agreements, satisfactory to
IBRD, with at least two banks which had met conditions of participa-
tion (para. 5.15). During negotiations, OI submitted the draft
statements of policies and procedures, organization and staffing
plans, and action programs prepared by each PCB to implement ancil-
lary financing component.
(c) Adequate arrangements would have been made to ensure close coordina-
tion between ICICI and the commercial banks in financing larger
export-oriented engineering enterprises and their ancillaries.



-33-
D. Export Marketing Fund
5.22    Under the proposed project, the Export-Import Bank would manage a US$10
million Export Marketing Fund, to be utilized in supporting strategic export
marketing moves mainly by individual companies. EMF support will be concentrated
on the following product groups, chosen for high export growth potential:
- auto ancillaries and spares           - commercial vehicles and scooters
- bicycles and parts                    - electric motors and starters
- diesel engines and pumps              - chemical and process plants
- handtools                             - industrial valves
- machine tools and accessories         - computer software
- castings and Eorgings
5.23    Eligible Company-level Activities.  The Fund will concentrate financial
support on the following company-level marketing activities: (a) desk mirket
research within India, to seLect overseas markets for more intensive field
research, (b) overseas field market research, to formulate a firm's export
marketing strategy for target markets, (c) minor product adaptation, when indi-
cated as required by market research, (d) overseas travel by company executives,
limited to purposes directly related to a properly researched marketing strategy,
'e) product inspection services, to reinforce a company's claims of reliable
product quality, (f) training related to export marketing, (g) planning and
startup of overseas operations, including warehousing and foreign offices, but
not covering actual operating costs, and (h) travel to India by potential buyers,
invited by Indian companies, when a key element in a marketing strategy. Support
will be for costs of technical and advisory services and travel expenses.
5.24    Eligible Back-up Activities.  In addition to these company-Level
measures, support will be given to the following back-up activities:
(a) strengthening service supply from management consultants and other groups in
India; (b) provision of trade information in small product-specific libraries,
mainly run by subsector industry associations; and (c) group marketing
activities, either when companies undertake eligible activities as a group, or
when new marketing information is collected on behalf of a subsector and
published, to lead to cost-effective firm-level market research.
5.25    Basis cf Support.  During the three-year commitment jeriod of the
project, US$10 million in IBRD finance would be made available to the EMF, to be
utilized primarily for a 50% support to all but one of the e.igible expenditures.
EMF finance for trade libraries will be limited to the first three years, with
75% support in the first year, 50% in the second, and 25% in the third. EMF
support would be in the form of non-reimbursable development expenditures. The
US$10 million amount is based upon detailed unit cost estimates of activities to
be financed, firm-level interviews and questionnaires, and estimates of the
number of firms likely to avail of the facility during the three year commitment
period. Detailed projections and assumptions are available in the Project File.
Financial support for market development is an accepted practice under GATT.
Under the GATT Code on Subsidies and Countervailing Duties, Article 14, the key
issue for an LDC is whether a measure causes "serious prejudice to the trade or
production of another signatory country". Support to market development repre-
sents a very small percentage of the total costs of an exported product.



-34-
5.26    Organization and Management.  The EMF will be managed by a new Group
within Ex-Im Bank, staffed by the Manager-EMF and four Product Officers, one at
each regional centre (DeLhi, Madras, Calcutta and Bombay). This team will sell
to potential exporters the benefits of improved marketing performance using the
incentive of EMF support, help clients prepare their proposals, and supervise end
use and impact of activities financed. During appraisaL, the draft Statement of
Policies and Procedures for the EMF, staffing leveLs and qualifications, the
action program for launching the EMF, and the quarterly planning cycle for the
EMF team were agreed with Ex-Im management (Annex 2 and Project File). The
operations of the EMF will be guided by the EMF Steering Committee, chaired by
the Secretary of Commerce, and including high level representation from the
Ministries of Finance, the Ministry of Industry, ICICI, EEPC, AIEI and Ex-Im.
The Steering Committee will have the following functions: (a) approval of the
Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures and any modifications; (b) review
of the progress of the Fund, on the basis of quarterly reports submitted by
Ex-Im; and (c) decision on proposals for over US$50,000 in EMF support. GO1 will
delegate to Ex-Im powers to approve smaller proposals of up to US$50,000 equiv-
alent in EMF support, except in cases in which minimum GOI consultancy approval
procedures are required. In such cases, GOI has ensured that such consultant
approvals will take less than 15 days.
5.27    Processing Proposals.  Applications will be by a written proposal from a
company, providing such information as is needed for sensible scrutiny including:
background of the activity proposed, activities leading to it; objectives,
methodology, expected results, time schedule, and an itemized budget of expected
costs. The Policy Statement outlines screening and approval processes for
individual cases (Annex 2). A provisional list of around 100 service suppliers
already has been prepared. This list will be updated quarterly for submission to
IBRD.
5.28    Action Program and Monitoring.  Pre-launch actions include those required
as conditions of effectiveness: approval by Ex-Im's Board and by the EMF
Steering Committee of the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures; neces-
sary procedural streamlining to ensure delegation to Ex-Im of all approval powers
for amounts up to US$50,000 in EMF support; and completion of recruitment the EMF
team. In January 1985, the Board of Ex-Im Bank, which includes the Secretaries
of Comerce, Finance and Industrial Development, approved in principle the con-
tent of the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures. Ex-Im will prepare
an action plan for each year of operation. The quarterly reports by Ex-Im to the
Steering Committee also will be submitted to IBRD. Any changes in the Statement
of Policies and Operating Procedures would need to be agreed by the Steering
Committee (representing GOI), Ex-Im and IBRD.
E. Productivity Fund
5.29    Under the project, ICICI, working in close collaboration with AIEI and
its affiliates, -nuld manage a US$10 million Productivity Fund. Firms eligible
for assistance will be larger enginee-ing firms and ancillaries which manufacture
engineering products or components with identified export prospects, and wiiich
have specific plans to enhance productivity. Groups of firms also would be
eligible under the scheme on the same cost sharing basis. Priority would be



-35-
given to firms in thrust industries selected for special promotion due to iden-
tified export prospects in line with comparative advantage. Expenditures would
cover mainly foreign consultancy, technical support and supervisor training to
help larger firms and ancillaries improve productivity or adapt products in
response to market requirements. Assistance could be related to: (i) cost
reduction and quality improvements which firms could make with or without addi-
tional fixed investments with a focus on material handling, processing methods
and tooling to increase production efficiency and achieve consistent quality;
(ii) choice of process and product technologies which would be compatible with a
significant expansion in exports to more demanding markets; and
(iii) establishment of Productivity Cells. Also eligible would be small hardware
expenditures (not to exceed US$25,000 in PF funding) for: acquiring
process/design know-how; R & D with a view to adapting products to export
requirements; prototype imports; and jigs, fixtures and tools needed to remove
identified production bottlenecks or enable significant breakthroughs in quality
and productivity.
5.30    Organization and Management.  ICICI, which will manage the Productivity
Fund, will coordinate with AIEI and its affiliates to promote the use of the
facility among appropriate firms. ICICI and AIEI have developed a program for
promoting the Fund. Proposals would be presented either by individual firms or
groups to ICICI's Productivity Fund staff which would help sponsors refine their
proposals, and would do preliminary screening. Proposals would be considered by
an Advisory Committee consisting of a minimum of four qualified members, two from
ICICI, one from AIEI and one outside technical person. The Committee will be
chaired by ICICI. ICICI, as the financing agency for the Productivity Fund, will
have final decision-making authority.
5.31    Role of the Steering Committee.  The Steering Committee would oversee
PF operations. Its responsibilities would be to: (a) ratify the Statement of
Policies and Operating Procedures and make modifications if required; (b) review
quarterly reports prepared by ICICI -n activities financed, end-use and impact;
and (c) approve projects which involve PF financing in excess of US$100,000. GOI
would delegate to ICICI clearance powers for foreign currency and hiring of
foreign consultants and technicians for eligible activities of up to US$100,000,
with only the minimum government clearances required, not to exceed two weeks.
The Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary, Department of Industrial
Development, would have representatives of the Ministries of Industry and
Finance, DGTD, AIEI and ICICI.
5.32    Financing Arrangements.  The Productivity Fund, with US$10 million of
IBRD financing, will be lent to GOI on standard terms, with ICICI managing the
Productivity Fund for GOI. As with the EMF, the amount of IBRD funding for the
Productivity Fund is based on: analysis of average unit costs of eligible
activities, firm-level quest.onnaires and interviews, and estimates of the number
of firms likely to avail of the facility. ICICI's administrative costs to
operate the Fund would be covered from its spread for direct lending operations
under the project rather than charging the Productivity Fund account. The
Productivity Fund would be utilized to cover up to 50% of eligible expenditures



-36-
on consultants, technicians, training, exposure trips, and small hardware
investments. PF financing, which would be used to cover the foreign exchange
portions, would be in the form of nonreimbursable development expenditures.
Productivity Fund financing for a single subproject would not exceed US$200,000
in the case of software, and US$25,000 for hardware.
5.33    Key Actions.  A Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures, drafted
with ICICI during appraisal, has been ratified in substance by ICICI's Board and
by the Ministry of Industries, which will head the PF Steering Committee.
Organization and staffing needed for ICICI to manage the Fund have been agreed
and the manager for the Productivity Fund designated (Annex 3). The following
steps would be taken to launch operations: (a) formal approval of Statement of
Policies and Operating Procedures by ICICI Board; (b) establishment of the
Steering Committee, with Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures ratified
and acceptance to IBRD; (c) startup staffing of Productivity Fund in place; and
(d) delegation of approval powers to ICICI for PF expenditures not exceeding
US$100,000 except for minimum GOI approvals. In addition, ICICI will develop
applications, screening, monitoring and reporting formats for the Productivity
Fund and promote the Productivity Fund with AIEI and its affiliates.
Actions (a), (b), (c) and (d) would be the conditions of effectiveness. Changes
in the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures would require agreement by
the Steering Committee, ICICI and IBRD.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.34    Under the Industrial Export Project, ICICI, the Export-Import Bank, and
each PCB would prepare quarterly reports on activities financed under the
project. These reports would be submitted to GOI, IBRD, and ICICI as the
monitoring and evaluation agency for the project. Also, key characteristics of
subprojects financed-particularly marketing and technology upgrading
arrangements--will be submitted with authorization and approval requests. In
addition, on a bi-annual basis, ICICI will prepare a monitoring and evaluation
report covering: (a) the impact of relevant trade and industrial policies on
competitiveness and exports, and an assessment of remaining policy constraints;
(b) activities financed, actions undertaken, and impact to date of activities
financed under the four project components; and (c) planned vs. actual produc-
tivity measures and exports. During negotiations, the main elements of quarterly
and bi-annual monitoring reports were agreed in substance. This monitoring and
evaluation will assist in determining the effectiveness of policies, project
activities, and eligibility criteria, helping to inform the design of future
lending operations.



-37-
VI. THE LOAN
A. Arrangements for Two Loans
6.01    Financing.  IBRD financing under the project would incorporate two IBRD
loans:
(a) one loan of US$160 million to ICICI, with a GOI guarantee, for
financing foreign exchange requirements of eligible export-oriented
suprojects, with US$ 100 million to increase competitiveness and
exports of engineering products; and
(b) a second IBRD loan to COI, of US$90 million, divided into three
components: (i) US$70 million for commercial bank financing of
engineering ancillary firms; (ii) US$10 million for the ICICI
Productivity Fund; and (iii) US$10 million for the Export Marketing
Fund managed by Ex-Im Bank.
The rationale for a separate loan to ICICI is that direct IBRD financing--as with
the past fourteen IBRD lines of credit--helps ICICI mobilize substantial foreign
commercial funding on attractive terms. COI and ICICI find that direct IBRD
lending to ICICI, with a GOI guarantee, signifies to commercial sources that
ICICI, and not only the Government of India, is credit-worthy. For the other
project components, significant COI commitment is required to ensure that ade-
quate approval powers are delegated to ICICI and Ex-Im Bank, and to have COI take
the foreign exchange risks and ensure adequate arrangements by the commercial
banks in financing engineering ancillary firms. Since the project involves
related components to achieve its objectives, it will be necessary that both
Loans become effective simultaneously. Therefore, while two Loans be retained,
with separate covenants, the effectiveness of the Loans to ICICI and GOI would be
contingent on the other loan becoming effective. Conditions of effectiveness
for the two Loans would be:
(A) Loan to ICICI
o Revised Strategy Statement ratified by ICICI Board, and acceptable
organization and staffing for export-oriented engineering sub-
projects and Productivity Fund in place.
(B) Loan to COI
o Commercial Bank Ancillary Financing. PCB Financial Agreements
signed by GOI and at least two commercial banks, incorporating:
GOI coverage of foreign exchange risk; interest rates; eligibility
criteria; adequate organization and staffing; and Statements of
Policies and operating Procedures (Annex 1).
o Export Marketing Fund. Ratification by Ex-Im Board and Steering
Committee of acceptable Statement of Policies and Operating
Procedures (Annex 2). Adequate organization and staffing to
manage the EMF.



-38-
o Productivity Fund. Ratification by ICICI Board and Steering
Committee of Statement of Policies of Operating Procedures
(Annex 3). Agreed organization and staffing in place. Signing of
Project and acceptable Financial Agreements.
B. Loan to ICICI
6.02    Onlending Terms.  The proposed IBRD loan of US$160 million will be made
to ICICI at the Bank rate, under standard IBRD terms and conditions. ICICI will
onlend IBRD funds to viable private industrial enterprises which meet the agreed
eligibility criteria (paras. 5.05-5.07). ICICI would onlend Bank funds on a
floating rate basis by adding an appropriate spread, of about 2% over the IBRD
rate. I/ Foreign exchange and interest rate risks would be passed on to
subborrowers. Subloans will have maturities of up to 15 years and grace periods
of up to 3 years. ICICI will repay the loan on the basis of a fixed amortization
schedule of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years. This procedure will
be a departure from prior loans to ICICI. ICICI now is allowed to have an over-
seas account and will be able to protect itself against the foreign exchange
risks by relending the funds in the same currency. As a part of the proposed
project, ICICI will undertake to raise US$160 million from international commer-
cial markets. In line with its financial objectives, ICICI has agreed that the
maximum long-term debt to equity ratio for ICICI will be a maximum of 12:1 and
the debt service coverage ratio will be at least 1.1:1.
6.03    Free Limits and Subproject Review.  As under the previous IBRD loans to
ICICI, subprojects for which cumulative Bank financing does not exceed US$6.0
million equivalent will not require prior Bank approval. ICICI will include
estimates of DRCs and internal economic rates of return in addition to the finan-
cial rate of returns for all subprojects financed under the Project. In
addition, ICICI will supply IBRD copies of the export plans, product-market
assessments, technology moves, economic analysis and DRCs of export-oriented
subprojects at the time of seeking approval or authorization.
6.04    Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  Procurement for goods financed
under the proposed ICICI Loan will be in accordance with ICICI's standard
procedures, which are based on the evaluation of at least three quotations.
Annex 5 providets the estimated disbursement schedule of ICICI and other
components. The disbursements schedule assumes a slower rate of disbursement
than under past operations with ICICI, due to the more selective subproject
eligibility criteria under the Industrial Export Project. The ICICI Loan
proceeds will be disbursed for up to 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
machinery and equipment, against full documentation. In accordance with DFC
practice, eligible expenditures incurred up to 90 days prior to the Bank's
receipt of a subloan application would be eligible for financing. No retroactive
financing is proposed.
1/ On its foreign exchange resources from international financial markets,
ICICI has been lending on a floating rate basis (6 month London Interbank
Rate plus a spread of 2%).



-39-
6.05    Reporting, Accounts, and Auditing.  As ICICI is considered a Government
company for auditing purposes, GOI appoxnts ICICI's joint auditors on the advice
of the Comptroller Auditor General. ICICI's accounts always have been presented
without qualification. Comprehensive reporting requirements have been estab-
lished with ICICI. ICICI will submit quarterly progress reports to IBRD on its
overall operations, and on activities financed under the ICICI Loan, including:
enterprises financed broken down by product groups and firm-level export plans.
ICICI also will prepare bi-annual reports evaluating overall impact of relevant
changes in industrial and trade policies, and the impact of the four components
of the Industrial Export Project on institutional developments, productivity
improvements, export marketing measures and planned vs. actual exports of firms
financed. During negotiations, agreement will be reached on the coverage and
methodology of ICICI's reports.
C. Loan to GOI - Ancillary Component
6.06    Onlending Terms.  Under the proposed US$90 million Loan to GOI under the
project, US$70 million will be for term financing of eligible engineering ancil-
lary firms by participating commercial banks (PCBs). The Loan will be made to
OI on standard terms and conditions. GOI will use part of the proceeds of the
IBRD loan to finance foreign exchange portions of eligible credits by participat-
ing commercial banks. These amounts will remain with the participating commer-
cial banks as GOI equity contributions. Since the banks are under-capitalized,
there will be a strong incentive for the commercial banks to comply with condi-
tions of participation and to finance eligible enterprises. COI will bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the IBRD loan. The participating
commercial banks will charge the final borrower an interest rate of 15X; this
rate will be reviewed and revised if necessary to ensure that the rate remains
positive in real terms in relation to medium term inflation projections, and
consistant with the non-subsidized term lending ratz for industry. The banks
will finance ancillary units which meet the agreed eligibility criteria
(paras. 5.14). The maturity of subloans normally will be 3 to 10 years including
a grace period of 1 to 3 years.
6.07    Free Limits and Subproject Review.  The minimum and maximum reimbursable
credit amounts will be US$50,000 to US$500,000, covering up to 1002 of foreign
exchange portions of these subloans. The Bank will need to review and approve
the first five subprojects of each PCB; if these first subprojects of a PCB are
found acceptable, only subloans above the US$250,000 free limit will require
prior IBRD review and approval. Withdrawal authorizations for subprojects below
the free limit will be made on the basis of summary reports by the PCB providing
a description of: enterprise name; location and prc uct group; specific ancil-
lary marketing arrangements; technical upgrading and expansion measures;
enterprise, subproject and loan amounts; financing and economic rates of return.
PCBs will prepare and present subproject reports in a format which is acceptable
to the Bank. Calculations of financial rates of return and DRCs will be required
for credits. Calculation of internal economic rates of return will be expected
for subloans above US$250,000. Ex-post evaluations will be carried out during
supervision missions.



-40-
6.08    Procurement, Disbursement, Reports, Accounting.  Goods required under
the proposed loan will be procured by ancillary industries either from overseas
or from local commercial sources for foreign goods. Given the small size and
variety of subloans, international competitive bidding will not be required. The
PCBs will evaluate proposals based upon at least three quotations. PCBs will
need to establish that goods and services are of competitive price and quality;
for contracts of over US$20,000, PCBs will evaluate proposals based on at least
three quotations. The Bank will disburse against statements of expenditures
provided by PCB as it will not be feasible to disburse against full
documentation, due to the number of transactions. PCBs will be asked to retain
supporting documenLs, which will be available for periodic review by the Bank's
supervision missions. The Bank will finance up to 100% of foreign exchange
expenditures, subject to the maximum reimbursable subloan amount of US$500,000.
PCBs will submit quarterly reports on activities under the project to GOI, ICICI
and IBRD. These reports will include: subproject information including
quarterly and cumulative commitments and disbursements, broken down by size,
location and product group; collection data; and organization, staffing and
training for the project. Contents of quarterly reports were agreed in substance
during negotiations. Project accounts will be audited annually.
D. Export Marketing and Productivity Funds
6.09    Of the IBRP loan to COI, US$10 million would be allocated to the Export
Marketing Fund and US$10 million to the Productivity Fund. The Export-Import
Bank would manage the EMF and ICICI, working in close collaboration with AIEI,
would manage the PF, on behalf of G0I. Satisfactory draft Statements of Policies
and Operations Procedures have been developed for each Fund (Annexes 2 and 3).
These Statements, which have been agreed in principle by the Boards of ICICI and
Ex-Im respectively, contain objectives, eligibility criteria for activities to be
financed, cost sharing formulas, organization and minimum staffing of the Funds,
role of the Steering Committee, delegation of approval powers by GOI, and
accounting and reporting requirements. Satisfactory organization and staffing
plans have been developed and pre-launch action programs have been initiated.
Prior to effectiveness of the Loans, Statements of Policies and Operating
Procedures, with form and content satisfactory to IBRD, would need to have been
ratified by the respective Boards and Steering Committees, including the delega-
tion of approval authority 1/ to ICICI for amounts up to US$100,000 in
Productivity Fund finance per operation, and for up to US$50,000 for the Export
Import Bank. In addition, minimum agreed staffing would need to be in place to
enable effective implementation of each Fund, prior to Loan effectiveness.
1/ Except in the case of foreign consultants and technicians, which will
require the minimum government approvals under the new streamlined
procedures.



-41-
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.01    Benefits.  The significant policy changes recently introduced combined
with the institutional support embodied in the first Industrial Export Project
should result in substantial improvements in the competitiveness and exports of
engineering products. If GOI sustains the substantial measures taken and con-
tinues to remove the barriers to efficient development of the subsector, it could
be possible for India to regain its 9% share of LDC export. of engineering
products by the mid-1990, which would represent about US$15 million in exports;
however, substantial additional investments beyond the amounts in the Industrial
Export Project would be required to achieve this level of output and exports. In
addition to significant export growth in the medium-term, the recent policy
measures and institutional support under the project are expected to resulr in
substantial improvements in productivity and quality, which have domestic
benefits and are prerequisites to penetration of major export amounts. While the
moves to improve economies of scale, productivity, and product quality would
result in a net reduction in employment for a given output, the tapping of domes-
tic demand for higher quality products and the increased contribution of exports
from 10X to 20% of output could result in significant net incremental employment.
7.02    The Project would have substantial institutional benefits.  ICICI would
be active in the financial support of firm-level moves to increase competitive-
ness and exports. The Productivity Fund should both support individual engineer-
ing firms in determining measures to improve quality, scale, and efficiency, as
well as providing ICICI with a bcrong promotional tool and means of strengthening
its own technical appraisal capacity. The Project represents the first par-
ticipation by Indian commercial banks in an IBRD-financed industrial development
project. Their responsibility for financing engineering ancillaries will help
shift the banks' focus from proliferation of smaLl industries to financing firms
to grow, modernize and specialize as ancillaries. The institutional upgrading
moves under the first Industrial Export Project should enable substantial future
industrial lending through the commercial banks. Finally, GOI's decision that
the proceeds of the IBRD Loan remain with participating banks as equity will
contribute to the capital base of the commercial banks, while providing a strong
incentive for the commercial banks to meet project objectives.
7.03    Both the Funds embody the recognition by GOI that improvements in
efficiency and export marketing are best undertaken at the initiative of
individual firms. The Funds will encourage the exposure of Indian companies to
outside markets, competitors, and technical expertise--which is essential in
achieving international competitiveness and significant market penetration. The
cost sharing formula combined with ICICI and Ex-Im screening and advise will help
ensure that the activities financed will support strategic moves to increase
productivity and exports. By having two efficient financial intermediaries
administer these Funds, with substantial delegated powers, the normal procedural
delays affecting such private sector activities will be avoided.
7.04    The sector and preparation work preceding the processing of the first
Industrial Export Project--and the positioning of the project to complement the
policy reforms recently taken by GOI-represent a means by which the Bank can
contribute to policy analysis and change. ICICI's role in export and subsector



-42-
development, combined with the involvement by commercial banks and Ex-Im Bank
under the project should represent effective implementing arrangements for this
and subsequent industrial lending operations involving financial intermediaries.
7.05    Risks.  The principal risks are that GOI will not sustain the policy
initiatives taken recently, that procedural problems will undermine the impact of
these policy changes, and that further measures designed to remove policy con-
straints to efficient growth and exports of engineering products will not be
instituted. Also, the effectiveness of these policies in generating exports will
depend on COI maintaining real exchange rates which provide adequate incentives
for manufactured exports relative to production for the domestic market. While
these policy-related risks will continue to exist, they are lower than usual.
The pronouncements made and measures taken during CY85 represent major moves to
address the problems blocking efficiency and exports of manufactured products;
these measures are judged to be adequate in achieving significant improvements in
productivity and exports. The Government is adamant about the need to remove
procedural bottlenecks; private industrialists and public policy-makers
anticipate that the process of streamlining procedures will continue. The main
area in which additional policy change would have a significant impact on com-
petitiveness and exports of engineering products is: allowance of entry and
expansion by firms regardless of size, in product groups reserved for SSI, at
least in thrust industries. Also, while policies and procedures for import of
technology and capital goods have been liberalized, additional measures would
reduce the dependence of firm-level upgrading moves on the continued "liberal
spirit" of government approval authorities. Further changes in these areas are
under active consideration by GOI. A host of committees, task forces, and minis-
tries have developed proposals on further decontrol of the industrial sector.
While uncertainties exist as to which proposals will work their way into policy
and how soon additional changes will be made, further measures to promote
efficiency, economies of scale and exports are expected in the near term.
7.06    As with all projects, risks exist that the capabilities of the implement-
ing agencies will be inadequate to commit the funds on schedule to subprojects
which meet agreed eligibility criteria. We anticipate no difficulties in ICICI
or Ex-Im Bank complying with their responsibilities under the project. ICICI has
an excellent track record under past loans, and already has made most of the
management, organization and staffing moves to ensure expeditious use of the
amounts allocated to export-oriented engineering subprojects and to the
Productivity Fund. ICICI will include in its bi-annual reports an assessment of
planned vs. actual productivity improvements and exports of firms financed. This
will enable GOI and the Bank to assess the effectiveness of eligibility criteria
and investments in achieving project objectives. Likewise, Ex-Im has developed a
detailed pre-launch plan, and the recent promotion of the Managing Director to
Chairman should ensure that Ex-Im's commitment to implementing this component
is maintained. In the case of commercial bank financing of engineering
ancillaries, risks exist of slow commitments at the outset of the project.
During the last six months, participating commercial banks have prepared detailed
action programs for implementing the ancillary financing component, and the
equity arrangements now make participation highly attractive to the banks. We
envisage no difficulty in having the necessary two out of four banks meeting the
conditions of participation by the time of loan effectiveness. Full implementa-
tion of this component is expected to commence in early CY86, after which commit-



-43-
ments should proceed rapidly. Frequent IBRD missions will be important, par-
ticularly during the initial year of project implementation.
VIII   RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    During negotiations, agreements and understandings were conf:rmed between
COI, ICICI and IBRD on:
(i) Contents of the Loan Agreement between IBRD and ICICI, including:
Covernment guarantee, basis for onlending rate and spread, amounts
allocated to export-oriented engineering firms and other
enterprises; subproject eligibility criteria; provisions for sub-
project review, procurement and disbursement procedures; foreign
commercial financing requirements; debt-equity and debt service
coverage limits; changes in Strategy StAtement; and organization iind
staffing (paras. 5.05-5.12, 6.02-6.05).
(ii) Contents of the Loan Agreement between IBRD and GOI and Financial
Agreements between COI and PCBs as as they apply to comercial
banks' financing of engineering ancillaries, including: subproject
and subloan eligibility criteria, terms and conditions; conditions
of participation; procurement, disbursement, subproject review and
reporting requirements; arrangements for proceeds to be retained as
equity by the banks, in amounts equal to eligible disbursements of
IBRD funds; onlending rates and GOI assumption of foreign exchange
risk and repayment obligation to IBRD; provision for IBRD supervi-
sion of end use; reporting, accounting and auditing requirea-znts for
project accounts (paras. 5.13-5.21).
(iii) Contents of the Project and Financial Agreements for the
Productivity and Export Marketing Funds. Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures for the Productivity and Export Marketing Funds
(Annexes 2 and 3). Organization, staffing, and other plans to
launch implementation of the Funds. Composition of the Steering
Committee and delegation of approval powers to ICICI and
Export-Import Bank. Arrangements to facilitate disbursements under
the Fundp (paras. 5.34, 7.01-7.06).
(iv) Contents, methodology and reporting arrangements for ICICI monitor-
ing of the policy program, as well as activities and impact of the
four components of the Industrial Export Project (paras. 7.07-7.08).



-44-
8.02    Both Loans will be made effective simultaneously.  Conditions of effec-
tiveness of the Loans will be:
For the ICICI Loan
ti) Revised ICICI Strategy Statement ratified by ICICI Board and agreed
staffing of Division IV (6.01).
For the GOI Loan
(ii) PCB Financial Agreements signed between GOI and at least two PCBs
which have complied with agreed conditions of participation, includ-
ing minimum organization, staffing, and procedures to launch
implementation of the ancilliary financing component (5.15, 5.21,
6.01).
(iii) Signing of EMF Project Agreements and Financial Agreements, ratifica-
tion of agreed Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for the
EMP by Ex-Im Bank's Board and by the EMF Steering Commitvee; and
agreed minimum staff to manage the EMF hired (5.29, 6.01).
(iv) Signing of PF Project Agreements and Financial Agreements, ratifica-
tion of the PF Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures by
ICICI's Board and the PF Steering Committee; and agreed minimum
staffing in place (5.34, 6.01).



-45-.                        Annez 1
Page 1 of 3
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT
PROGRAM FOR FINANCING ANCILLARY DEVELOPMENT
1.      Under the proposed Industrial Export Project, $70 million equivalent of
IBRD Funds would be made available to participating commercial banks (PCBs) for
lending to engineering ancillary units.
Eligible Institutions
2.      The main features of the component, i.e. eligibility of criteria, terms
and conditions, procurement and disbursement procedures, supervision and reporting
requirements, would be outlined in: (i) the IBRD Loan Agreement with OI
(ii) Financial Agreemencs between OI and PCBs, and (iii) Statements of Policies
and Operating Procedures of the PCBs. The Loan and Financial Agreements and
Policy Statements will contain:
(a) actions taken and planned by the PCBs to provide adequate
organization, staffing and training to perform the engineering
ancillary lending operation under this project;
(b) eligible activities, lending rate, arrangements for channelling
the funds to the PCBs! procurement and disbursement requirements;
(c) PCBs quarterly reporting requirements covering: comitments,
disbursements, staffing position for this activity, supervision
and collection performance; and
(d) IBRD supervision and reporting requirements.
Eligible Enterprises
3.      Engineering ancillary firms which supply a substantial portion of their
output (components, processes and finished products) to a large engineering firm,
or which has satisfactory arrangements for such a tie-up, would be eligible for
assistance under the scheme. Preference would be given to engineering ancillaries
which already have such tie-ups with medium and large engineering firms seeking
assistance for BMRE investment under the term lending component from ICICI.
Eligible Activities
4.      The foreign currency portion of term loans provided by a participating
commercial bank to an eligible ancillary engineering firm would qualify for
finance under the program. Such finance would provide for import of equipment,
foreign exchange elements of permanent working capital, and lump sum payments, if
any, for import of technical know-how.



-46-                        Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
5.      Subproject Eligibility Criteria
Size of the Enterprise  :   Up to US$2 million in fixed assetB
(excluding land and buildings) at the
time of application.
Maximum Amount of
Refinanceable
Foreign Currency Loan   :   $500,000
Minimum Refinanceable
Amount                       $50,000
Promoter's Contribution :   At least 20% project cost
Debt:Equity Ratio of
the Enterprise          :   Not exceeding 2:1 normally but
in no case exceeding 3:1
Debt Service Coverage   :   Not less than 1.5
Domestic Resource Cost  :   Acceptable
Terms of Assistance
Lending Rate to
Sub-borrowers           :    15X per annum, non-subsidized rate
for the term loans to industry
Repayment Period        :   Up to 10 years including a
grace period of up to 3 years
Commitment Charge to
Sub-borrowers                1X per annum
6.      Free Limit and Appraisal.  Appraisal formats for subprojects to be
financed under the scheme would be prepared by PCBs in a form acceptable to IBRD,
with the formats simplified in view of the small size of subloans to be
refinanced. Appraisal reports would need to pay particular attention to marketing
arrangements and technology upgrading moves made by the ancillary. The appraisal
reports should assess financial viability with a close look at the cost structure,
market arrangements, and the cost and quality of the proposed output vis-a-vis
international standards, to help ensure that the subproject increases the expor-
tability of the ancillary's output.
7.      The first five proposals from each participating banks would have to be
submitted to IBRD for approval irrespective of the amount of assistance.
Thereafter, a free limit of $250,000 in respect of each proposal and outstanding
amount of $500,000, including the proposed assistance in respect of repeat assis-



-47-                          Annex I
Page 3 of 3
tance to each engineering ancillary firm would operate.  All other appraisal
memoranda below the free limit would be sent to IBRD for information, to ensure
that eligibility criteria had been met.
Flow of Funds
8.      Under the Industrial Export Project, GOI will borrow US$70 million, on
normal IBRD terms and conditions, for the ancillary financing component. GOI will
make these funds available to commercial banks which have met conditions of
participation. Commercial banks would onlend to eligible engineering ancillarie,
at 152. Clients' obligations would be in rupee equivalent of amounts financed,
calculated on the date of disbursement; COI would bear the foreign exchange risks
on repayment of the IBRD loan. Funds received by each commercial bank under this
program will be reflected as additional equity, not repayable to COI.
9.      Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  The goods required under the
proposed loan will be procured by ancillary industries either directly from over-
seas or from local commercial sources. Given the small size and variety of
subloans, it will not be feasible to follow international competitive bidding
proeodures.  The PCBs will be required to evaluate the proposal based on three
quotations.  IBRD will disburse against full documentation for subloans above the
free limit.  For subloans up to the free limit (US$250,000) disbursements would be
made against statement of expenditures provided by PCB as it will not be feasible
to disburse against full documentations, due to the large number of small
transactions. PCBs will retain supporting documents, which will be available for
periodic review by the Bank's supervision missions. The Bank will finance lOOZ of
foreign exchange expenditures for eligible goods and services.
10.     Reporting Requirements.  All PCBs will be required to submit to GOI, ICICI
and IBRD quarterly reports on comitments, disbursements, and collections, and
biannual reports on organization, subprojects, and impact. Contents of quarterly
and bi-annual reports were agreed with each PCB prior to negotiations and with GOI
during negotfations.



-48-                         Annex 2
Page  1 of 5
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK
EXPORT MARKETING FUND
DRAFT STATEMENT OF POICIES AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
Background and Objectives
1.      The objective of the Industrial Export Project--Engineering Products is to
increase competitiveness and exports of India's engineering products. The Export
Marketing Fund has been designed to address one of the key factors contributing to
the slide in India's shara of LDC exports of engineering products: poor marketing
performance particularly in the industrialized export markets. These markets
account for 60% of world imports and LDC exporto of engineering products. At the
present, India exports only about 20Z of its engineering exports to Western Europe
and North America. The Export Marketing Fund (EMP) will give encouragement and
financial support to a range of strategic export marketing activities, with a
particular focus on industrialized markets.
2.      Eligible Product Groups.  EMP support will be concentrated on a limited
range of engineering product group:. chosen for high export growth potential, with
most products having strong prospects in industrialized markets. The following
products will be eligible for support:
- auto ancillaries, spares        - commercial vehicles, scooters
- bicycles, parts                 - electric motors, starters
- diesel engines, pumps           - chemical, process plant
- handtools                       - industrial valves
- machine tools, accessories      - computer software
- castings, forgings
This list will be subject to regular review and can be revised based upon mutual
agreement between Ex-Im Bank, IBRD, and the EMF Steering Committee.
3.      Eligible Activities.  Most EMF expenditures will be to cover 50% of the
costs of eligible company-level export marketing activities, with payments made
toward technical and advisory services, and travel costs. Company-level
activities eligible for such support will be the following:
(a) Desk Research is an important measure in directing field research at most
promising geographical areas, and product market segments.
(b) Overseas Field Market Research, a main input into the formulation of an
export marketing strategy, should aim to answer the four questions fundamen-
tal to such a strategy: (i) Which products are required? (ii) what are the
channels of distribution? (iii) who makes the purchasing decision?
(iv) what factors affect this decision?



_49_                         Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
(c)  Minor Product Adaptation.  When market research shows product adaptation to
be requiredtjustifled, support will be given for advisory and technical
services in product re-design, advice on packaging and product testing.
Major product adaptation expenditures would be covered under the Productivity
Fund and term loans from ICICI and the commercial banks.
(d) Overseas Travel by Company Executives. Travel and subsistence costs would be
supported for purposes directly related to the company's marketing strategy
e.g.  (i) finding and appointing agents and distributors; (ii) direct
selling; and (iii) keeping up-to-date with product developments. This
activity would be supported only when travel is directly related to a
strategy based on adequate market research.
(e) Product Inspection Services. In cases in which overseas buyers are concerned
about product quality and consistency, companies should be encouraged to use
the seal of approval of a recognized inspection agency. The choice of
inspection agency will be open to the company, but it is likely that most
buyers will be impressed by a seal of approval from an internationally recog-
nized agency.
(f) Training. To encourage a more informed, strategic approach to export
marketing, particularly in industrialized countries, support will be given to
training in export marketing, including: (i) export marketing methods such
as pricing, distribution channels, and promotion methods; (ii) export market
research; (iii) organizing an export department; and (iv) export procedures
including GOI support schemes, shipping and forwarding.
(g) Establishing Overseas Operations. While the direct operating expenses of
overseas operations (e.g. warehouses, sales offices) will not be funded by
the EMF, support will be given during the planning and start-up phases of
such operations for travel by company executives and the costs of advisory
and technical services on warehouse siting, recruiting local staff, and sales
force organization.
(h) Travel to India by Potential Buyers. Support will apply only where a buyer
is invited by one or more exporters, and will extend only to the contribution
to travel costs made by these buyers.
5.      Support Expenditures.  In addition to partial funding for company level
activities, the EMF will improve support services:
(a) Strengthening Service Supply. Costs by service suppliers in improving of
services relevant to activities in paragraph 3 will be eligible for support.
Such service suppliers would include market researchers, management consult-
ants and training institutes. Eligible costs would incLude travel and tech-
nical services. Typical uses would include: (i) travel overseas to estab-
lish linkages with marketing consultants; and (ii) hiring of consultants to
help structure export marketing courses.



_50_                         Annex 2
(b) Published Trade Information. A good general trade information library exists
at TDA, New Delhi. In addition, OOI is considering the establishment of a
National Centre for Trade Information. There is a need for a second tier of
libraries to concentrate on specific product groups, where coverage might
extend to a regularly changing display of competitors' samples, overseas
product catalogues, trade journals and market surveys from India and abroad.
The Fund would support the establishment of such libraries, where relevant to
eligible product groups, probably by product-specific trade associations.
c)  Crc:E Marketing Activities will be supported in two different cases.
FIGEtly, if a group of companies wishes to undertake any of the activities
listed in para 3, these activities would be eligible, but would be assessed
using the same criteria applying to such activities undertaken by individual
companies. The second case is when marketing information may be collected on
behalf of sub-sector. This activity would be supported only when it is:
ti) genuine addition to the existing database and not merely an update of
statistics; (ii) designed to lead into company-specific market research;
(iii) responds to a need for the information expressed by companies within
the sub-sector; and (iv) work carried out by a competent market reseaLLcher.
6.      Resources.  During the three year commitment period of this project, the
Export Marketing Fund will be supplied with US$10 million of IBRD funds, with 70Z
earmarked for marketing activities targeted at industrialized countries. This
will be utilized primarily for a 502 support grant for eligible firm and group
expenditures. Support for trade information libraries will be limited to the
first three years, on the basis of 75X support in the first year of operation, 502
in the second year and 251 in the third. The Ex-Im Bank will have the option of
reducing this standard figure of 502 support in cases of unmanageable overdemand
on specific eligible expenditures. For administrative simplicity, the standard
5OZ support will apply to all proposals, whether in foreign exchange or local
currency.
Direction and Management
7.      The Steering Committee.  The EMF will be managed by Ex-Im Bank.
Operations will be guided by an EMF Steering Committee, which will: (a) approve
the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures and any updates of this
Statement; (b) review progress on the basis of quarterly reports submitted by
Ex-Im; (c) delegate to Ex-Im the power to approve proposals for EMF support of up
to US$50,000 covering activities up to $100,000, full approval authority will be
delegated to Ex-Im. The EMF Steering Committee will be chaired by the Secretary
of Commerce; and will include high level representation from the Ministries of
Finance and Industry, ICICI, EEPC, AIEI and Ex-Im.
8.      Management Arrangements.  Within Ex-Im, the EMF will be administered by a
new Operating Group, Group VII-Export Marketing Fund. Initial staffing of the EMF
Group will be one Manager plus four Product Officers. The Manager will be based
at Head Office. One Product Officer will be based at each of the Regional Offices
in Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras. This Group will have close links with
Group V-Planning and Group VI-Coordination. Group V will provide information



'.51-                        Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
inputs on industrial capability and overseas market.. Group VI is responsible for
the regional offices which will be utilized by the new group.
Implementing Arrangements
9.      Processing of Proposals.  A client proposal would normally go through the
following stages:
(a) proposal preparation by the client and the responsible Product Officer,
normally at the client's premises;
(b) submission by the Product Officer to the EMP Manager and the Ceneral
Manager in charge of Group VII;
(c) decision by Ex-Im's Committee of Executives (COE), which can be convened
weekly if required;
(d) proposals over US$100,000 total expenditure referred for decision to the
EMF Steering Comnittee;
(e) decisions on proposals under US$50,000 expenditure will be exercised by
the EMF Manager, in accordance with Ex-Im's existing arrangements for
delegation of powers. All negative decisions are to be reported
immediately to the COE; and
(f) negative decision on proposals submitted will be conveyed to clients in
person by the Product Officer responsible.
In accordance with existing Ex-Im practice, proposals requiring urgent decisions
(typically fire-fighting travel) will be dealt with by a special "fast-track"
procedure. This will require the initials of any three members of the COE, to be
reported ex-post at the next full COE meeting.
10.     Approval of Services Suppliers.  Ex-Im will draw up and maintain a list of
service suppliers. A provisional list of about 100 suppliers has been developed.
This list will be updated quarterly for submission to the Steering Comittee and
IBRD. In addition, IBRD will need to approve the range of fee rates acceptable
for categories of service. The approval procedure for new local service suppliers
normally will require a visit by the Product Officer and the collection of
prescribed information: (a) development of the practice including size, jobs
done, number of representative offices; (b) membership in professional
organizations, particularly those with mandatory codes of practice; (c) bio-data
of all consulting staff to be used on EMF-funded activities; (d) fee-rate
information; Ce) list of past clients in the activities concerned; and (f) Product
Officer's assessment.
11.     EHF Croup.  Product Officers will be recruited with a first degree in
engineering, an MBA and around five years of comercial experience in areas as
closely related to export marketing and marketing consultancy as possible. The
Manager of the Fund should have a similar academic background with longer
experience, perhaps in the management of marketing consultancy operations or as an
export manager. These new posts will be open to existing Ex-Im officers, as per



-52-                          Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
normal Ex-Im practice. The Produc'. Officer will form the primary point of contact
and guidance for the individual company. The Manager of the Fund will have direct
responsibility for service activities in support of individual companies. Product
Officers will work on a quarterly planning cycle.  Each quarter, they should:
(a) visit each active client at least once; (b) attend at Head Office a quarterly
review and planning meeting of Group VII, followed by a meeting with ICICI and
AIEI, to coordinate with other project components; and (c) spend at least 50% of
their time away from the office visiting companies, both active clients and
prospects. The Manager of the EMF also should be away from base at least 50% of
his time, on his direct responsibilities and to accompany Product Officers.
12.     Administration.  It is likely that Product Officers will be recruited at
Scale III and the Fund Manager at Scale V. There will be an initial training
program for this team, a proportion of which will be overseas, to give exposure to
relevant markets. In addition, it is expected that each member of the team will
undertake at least one short trip per year overseas, probably in conjunction with
one of the overseas activities of a client. Junior officers from other groups
within Ex-Im will be given an opportunity to accompany Product Officers, with the
objective of developing new recruits to the team, maintaining continuity and
developing links with other Groups. Ex-Im is to retain full documentation on all
expenditures to support all statements of expenditure submitted to IBRD.
13.     Action Plans.  The detailed action plan for launching the fund has been
developed, including the activities to bring the fund to the notice of potential
users and service suppliers (Project File).
14.     Ex-Im will prepare action plans for each year or partial year of
operation. These are to be approved first by the EMF Steering Committee and then
submitted to IBRD at least two months in advance of the year's start. Ex-Im will
notify IBRD of any significant modifications to these plans. Quarterly reports by
the management of the Fund also will be submitted to IBRD, to review progress and,
where necessary, propose action by Ex-Im and/or the EMF Steering Committee.
15.     Monitoring.  Supervision missions by IBRD will take place regularly.
These missions will include visits to individual plants, both with Product
Officers and independently. These missions will have the rights of access to
reports on and other outputs from activities supported.



-53.                         Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
ICICI PRODUCTIVITY FUND
DRAFT STATEMENT OF POLICIES AND OPERATINC PROCED' RES
1.      Objectives.  Improvements in productivity, through introduction of
relevant process and product technologies, will be needed in both large firmn and
ancillaries to increase the export competitiveness of Indian engineering products
particularly to larger, more demanding markets. The main objectives of the
Productivity Fund would be to support engineering firms in devising and implement-
ing appropriate measures:  to improve production methods, productivity, quality
control and maintenance systems; realize economies of scale; and bridge technology
gaps, so as to increase their export capabilities. The scheme, at the level of
individual firms or groups, would contain the following key elements:
(i) an anal;sis nf the existing process/product technologies of relevant
products;
(ii) identification of the gap to be bridged between firms' present level
of process/product performance and internationaLly acCepLable levels,
and the measures which would be needed to bridge the gap;
(iii) formulation of a strategy/action program for bridging the gap;
(iv) preliminary moves to step up productivity and to initiate the
process/product upgrading; and
*v) implementation of the full program to improve the process/product
quality.
The proposed PF would concern itself with the first four items. When expanded
exports are the immediate concern, capital investments and technology transfers
which would normally result from steps (i) to (iv) would be considered as BMRE
investments under the term lending component for engineering under the IndustriaL
Export Project. In cases in which the exportability aspect is identifiable but
not necessarily within immediate reach, PF assistance could also be used in help-
ing firms identify and select appropriate BMRE investments as well as the techni-
cal assistance, consultants, technicians and training required as a complement to
the BMRE investments.
2.      Eligibility Criteria.  Firms eligible for assistance would be larger firms
and ancillaries manufacturing engineering products and components with identified
export prospects. The concerned firm, which need not be an ICICI client, would
preferably be at least medium-sized. While any firm in the engineering
subsector 1/ with plans to enhance productivity would be eligible for PF
1/ Defined as firms in Category 38 as well as castings and forgings, within
the standard UNIDO classifications.



-54-                         Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
assistance, priority would be given to firms in thrust industries selected for
special promotion due to identified export prospects in line with Indian compara-
tive advantage. These thrust industries would include: handtools, vehicle parts,
bicycles and parts, diesel engines and parts, machine tools, industrial and
sanitary castings, commercial vehicles and scooters, and industrial machinery.
Firms or groups of firms would be eligible for assistance under the Productivity
Fund, on the same cost sharing basis.
3.      Eligible Activities.  Activities which would be eligible for cost sharing
under the Productivity Fund Scheme would include:
(a) Productivity Consultants and Technicians to assist in analyzing and
implementing: i) cost reduction and quality improvement moves which
firms could make with or without additional fixed investment but which
would increase sales volume with a focus on improving material
handling, processing methods and tooling to increase production
efficiency and achieve consistent quaLity; (ii) choice of
process/product technology which would be compatible with a sig-
nificant expansion in exports to more demanding markets; (iii) setting
up of Productivity Cells with specific work plans and with measurable
achievements on projected yields and quality of production; or
(iv) shared R and D effort to increase production efficiency.
(b) Ancillary Develupment ConsuLtancy. Such assistance would be made
available to supplier development departments of individual companies,
as well as to groups of relevant firms. It could be used to identify
with larger firms products suitable for production by ancillaries; to
select ancillaries in a position to specialize, modernize and expand
to meet a growing portion of a larger firm's requirements; and recom-
mend appropriate internal organizations for more active ancillary
development by larger firms.
(c) Supervisor Training. Trainers and materials to develop and implement
supervisor training in formal sessions and on the shop floor to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of supervisory functions, and
enable needed improvements in productivity in relation to either the
market in India or abroad.
(d) Design and Product Adaptation. Consultancy and small material or
capital expanditures to undertake design and product adaptation in
response to identified market opportunities at unit level or through
group cooperation and action.
(e) Exposure to plants in competing countries and to other factories
operated with foreign collaborators to tap the strong capabilities
among Indian manufacturers to adapt appropriate production practices
of others.



_55_                         Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
Cf) Workshops, Seminars and firm level work by potential collaborators
or institutions which see potential for expanding under exports, with
such exercises directed at productivity and technology improvemet.
(g) Expenditure if requiring Productivity Fund expenditureo of under
US$25,000 incurred on: i) acquiring design/process know-how;
(ii) R&D, especially of developmental nature witt a view to adapting
product to export demand; (iii) prototnpe import; and (iv) jigs,
fixtures and tools.
4.     Provison of Funds to ICICI.  The total size of the Productivity Fund will
be US$10 million in IBRD funds. ICICI would administer the Productivity Fund on
behalf of OI. To expedite payments, an amount of US$500,000 would be placed by
COI in a foreign currency account; this would be replenished regularly, with the
balance not to fall below US$250,000. All repayments to IBRD would be made
directly by COI. ICICr would utilize the Productivity Fund to finance eligible
development expenditures of firms or groups of firms. ICICI's administrative
costs to operate the PF would be covered from its spread for direct lending under
the Industrial Export Project. Auditing of transactions financed under the
Productivity Fund will be done by an independent firm of auditors acceptable to
0oi, ICICI and IBRD.
5.     In the case of "software" elements--consultants, technicians, training,
exposure trips-the Productivity Fund would be utilized to cover up to 50X of the
cost of the project, with PF financing being used to cover the foreign exchange
portions. 1/ In the case of moderate amounts of hardware in removing production
bottlenecks and in key areas to make significant breakthroughs in improving
quality and productivity, at least 502 of these fixed costs would be covered by
loans under the term lending component. The PP funds would be matched with the
equity portion of the sub-project on a 50:50 basis with PF funding being used to
cover a maximum of 25Z of sub-project costs. In the case of both software and
hardware, PF financing for a single sub-project would not exceed US$200,000.
6.     Management and Administration.  The PF will be promoted jointly by ICICI
and AIEI. Projects would be presented by individual firms, groups of firms or by
engineering associations to an Advisory Committee. The Committee, which would
meet at last monthly, would consist of at least four officers, two designated by
ICICI, one by AIEI and one outside technical person with recognized stature in the
engineering industry. The members would generally serve on the Committee for a
period of two years.
1/ Thus, for example, in the case of hiring a foreign consultant, technicians
or training teams, PF funds would normally cover fees, while the private
sponsor would pay local taxes and maintenance expenditures for the consultant.
In the case of exposure trips to foreign plants, the sponsor would cover the
costs of tickets, with the PF being used for per diems.



-56-                         Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
7.     The Deputy General Manager (Operation.) in charge of ICICI's Division IV
and the Productivity Fund would chair these meetings. ICICI, as the financing
agency for the Productivity Fund, would have final decision making authority. In
preparation for its participation in managing the Productivity Fund, ICICI would
establish a cell for promotional, advising and screening work for the Productivity
Fund. The cell also would be responsible for supervising end-use and impact of
activities financed. This work should generate new projects requiring term
financing. Finally, the cell could provide assistance to normal lending and
refinance operations when necessary,to help ensue that BMRE term loans will result
in increasing the competitiveness and exports of engineering products. To carry
out the tasks, it is envisaged that at full strength, the team of the cell would
consist of 4 engineers-MBAs, an economist and a marketing officer. Initial staff
would be the Productivity Fund Manager and two engineer-MBAs.
IDEPUTY CENERAL MANAGER (OPERATIONS) I
|Chief (Productivity Fundt}
I                I
lEconomistI     IMarketingi           ITwo Engineers/MBAs Officeri
I         I  l    Officeri             I                             l
8.      The Steerring Committee for the Productivity Fund would be chaired by the
Secretary, Heavy Industries. Members would include representatives of the
Ministry of Industry and Finance, DCTD, AIEI and ICICI. 1/ The Steering Committee
would oversee operations of the Productivity Fund. Its major responsibilities
would be to:
(a) Ratify the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for the
Productivity Fund and make modifications if required;
(b) Review quarterly reports by ICICI on activities financed, end-use and
impact;
(c) Delegate to ICICI the clearance powers for foreign currency allowan-
ces and hiring of foreign consultants and technicians (except minimum
GOI approvals), with ICICI ensuring that the activities and firms
fall within the eligibility criteria established under the agreed
policy statement, without requiring that each case be scrutinized by
DGTD, or the Committee as a whole; and
(d) Approve projects which involve PF financing in excess of US$100,000.
1/ If the Kapur Committee recommendations are implemented, the Steering
Committee would have the same composition as the Empowered Committee.



-57-                               Annex 4
Page 1 of i1
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA (ICICI)
ORGANIZATION, OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Industrial Credit and Investmenc Corporation of India Limited
(ICICI) was established in 1955. It has grown to become a major player in India's
financial sysctm, accounting for 80% of insetiutional foreign exchange financing
for industry. During the cwenty-seven years of the Corporation's existence, che
Bank has made fourteen loans totalling US$765 milLion to ICICI. Over the last few
years, ICICI has diversified its activities, and now provides a broad range of
banking services iicluding working capital, mergers and acquisitions, ezport
finance, supplier credits, underwriting and guarantees. ICICI also is playing
a much more active role in assisting government in formulacing industrial
policies, especially those related to the private sector. ICICI also has diver-
sified its resource base, and is now established in the international financial
markets. From 1981 through 1984, ICICI raised about US$250 million from the
internal financial markets. ICICI is now a mature institution which could be used
as an effective vehicle for reaching-specific target groups.
_I  INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
2.        Ownership and Resources.  Ownership of ICICI is dominated by public
sector corporations, including LIC, UTI and a number of nationalized commercial
banks. Of ICICI's issued share capital of Rs 337.5 million, public institutions
hold 79%, foreign shareholders (mainly commercial banks) hold 14% and the remain-
ing 7 is held by some 4,000 private Indian investors. As the public sector holds
more than 50% of its shares, ICICI is classified as a Covernmenc compaly under the
Companies Act for certain purposes such as the appointment of auditors. ICICI
lends only to the private sector.
3.        Resources.  On December 31, 1984, ICICI's resources totalled Rs 19.3
bilLion. Foreign exchange equivalent to Rs 7.8 biLLion accounted for 41% of the
total, while domestic resources provided the balance. The Bank has been the major
source of foreign exchange resources for ICICI. Out of the total foreign exchange
resources of US$626 million as of December 31, 1984, the fourteen loans from the
Bank (net of cancellations and repayments) amounted to US$309.5 milLion, or 49Z.
The balance consisted of commercial borrovings (US$254.5 million, or 412), other
bilateral loans and export credits (US$63.7 million, or 10%). Although the Bank's
share in ICICI's foreign exchange resources is still sizable, it has declined from
77Z in 1980 and 58% in 1983 to 49Z by the end of 1984. The Fourteenth Loan incor-
porated an understanding that ICICI would raise matching resources (US$150
million) from international commercial markets. As of December 31, 1983, ICICI
already has raised US$122 million on attractive terms (para. 17). The remaining
balance was raised in May 1984 in Belgium. Under the proposed Industrial Export
Project, iCICI is expected to intensify its resource diversification program
(para. 18).



-58-                         Annex 4
Page 2 of 11
4.        Orsanization.  ICICI is well managed and operates effectively under a
competent and experienced Board. The fifteen members of the Board represent OI
(2 members), public financial institutions (1), foreign shareholders (2), the
professions and business (8), and include two full-time executives of ICICI,
Chairman and Managing Director and the Whole-Time Director. With Mr. S. S. Mehta
retiring, Hr. S. S. Nadkarni became Chairman of the Board and Managing Director in
early 1984. The Board meets regularly; it sets ICICI's overall financial and
operational policies and decides on individual project proposals involving an
exposure above Rs 20 million. Mr. Nadkarni initiated a major reorganization of
ICICI in 1982 to enable the institution to operate effectively in the changed
environment. ICICI's reorganization, which started in 1982, was completed by
March 1983. 1/ The main objectives of the reorganization have been to decentral-
ize authority and responsibility and to sLrengthen subproject appraisal, industry
expertise, and supervision along subsector lines. There are nov four operating
divisions, each responsible for different subsectors. 2/ The reorganization
incorporates moves by ICICI to expand non-traditional activities, i.e., merchant
banking, leasing, investment services to Indians overseas, and management services
to other development banks. Also, the resource planning and mobilization
function, especially from international financial markets, is given a more
prominent role. ICICI is divided into five major groups: (i) operations;
(ii) development and planning; (iii) finance; (iv) merchant banking and
rehabilitation; and (v) regional offices.
5.        The Operations Group, headed by the Ceneral Manager, 3/ is is the
largest in professional staff and volume of business. The group is responsible
for appraising new loans and monitoring the portfolio; in the past, the supervi-
sion function was carried out by a separate department. Most legal staff, who
were previously in a separate Legal Department, were brought into the Operations
Croup. The objective is to reduce the period between appraisal and loan signing.
However, some legal matters, which by their nature take time, and also legal
issues not directly related to the loan documents will continue to be handled by
the Legal Department which reports to the General Manager and Legal Adviser. The
Finance And Resource Planning Group is headed by a Deputy General Manager, and is
divided into two subgroups: foreign exchange and accounts; and resources and
I/ A number of ICICI's middle-level managers will be retiring in 1984 and early
1985, which will mean more organizational changes.
2/  Operations   I (paper, textiles, rubber products, goods, food,
electricity generation and printing);
Operations II (basic metal industries, metal products, cement,
shipping and miscellaneous);
Operations III (basic industrial, chemicals, fertilizers and pesticides,
man-made fibers, sugar and other chemicals); and
Operation   IV (electrical equipment, machinery, transport, hotels and
lines of credit).
31 The present General Manager also holds the position of Legal Adviser.



-59-                       Annex 4
Page 3 of 11
management information. With the increased importance of borrowings from foreign
commercial sources, the resource mobilization function has been given a more
prominent role in ICICI's structure. The merchant banking and rehabilitation
functions are presently supervised by a Deputy Ceneral Manager assisted by an
Assistant General Manager. The functions are divided into two departments,
Merchant Banking and Rehabilitation. The Rehabilitation Department is responsible
for the problem projects, which are transferred from the operating divisions if
substantial measures are needed for their restructuring. The Development and
Planning Croup has three functions: market and economic research; administration;
and services to DPIs and other developmental activities. Regional offices report
directly to the Whole-Time Director. ICICI now has three regional offices in New
Delhi, Madras, and Calcutta. The New Delhi office is responsible for liaison with
Government in addition to its lending functions. ICICI started its leasing opera-
tion in early 1983 and this business has grown rapidly. The Leasing Division is
headed by a competent middle-level manager in ICICI. A corporate office with a
senior person as Executive Assistant was created to ensure that performance is
evaluated through a comprehensive management information system.
III. Operating Policies and Procedures
6.        ICICI has no formal policy statement, but has relied on its Memorandum
of Association, together with Government guidelines and the periodic resolutions
of its Board, to provide a satisfactory operating policy framework. In 1977,
ICICI's Board adopted a Statement of Financial and Operational Strategy which set
out, in general terms, its lending strategy. Six broad areas were specified for
priority attention: export industries; power and transport; agricultural related
enterprises; industries basic to industrial growth; mass consumption goods; and
balancing and modernization projects. With the Fourteenth Loan, ICICI updated
this Statement to make it more specific in its priorities for lending and
operations. The revised statement also reflects ICICI's resource policy and its
intention to diversify its foreign exchange sources further. The statement out-
lines ICICI's industrial promotion strategy. Under the proposed Industrial Export
Project, ICICI will amend its strategy statement to reflect: the expanded
emphasis on export-oriented projects, with a particular focus on engineering
products; the eligibility criteria for these subprojects; the operations of the
new Productivity Fund; and monitoring and evaluation criteria in assessing planned
vs. actual results. This revised statement in a form satisfactory to the Bank
would need to be approved by ICICI's Board prior to loan effectiveness of the
Proposed Industrial Export Project.
7.        Appraisal and Follow-up Standards.  ICICI's appraisals continue to be of
a high standard and incorporate a thorough treatment of technical, financial,
market and economic aspects. Follow-up procedures and project supervision stand-
ards also are satisfactory: clients submit detailed quarterly progress reports to
ICICI for review and follow-up. Problem projects are visited at least once a year
and a satisfactory system of reporting and management review exists. ICICI also
reserves the right to appoint a director on its clients' board and has done so in
290 cases.



-60-                       Annex 4
Page 4 of 11
8.        Onlending Terms.  For both domestic and foreign currency loans, JCICI's
standard rate of interest, except for subloans from euro-currency sources which
now will bear a floating rate of 22 over six month. London Inter-Bank Rate
(LIBOR), is 14Z. Interest rate on domestic currency loans ranges from 11.5Z to
15.5Z based on the type of the loan. Loans to new projects in designated backward
areas receive a concession, depending upon the location, on the first
Rs 20 million of institutional assistance of 1.5X p.a. on the standard rate.
Also, loans for modernization receive a concession (on the first Rs 40 million) of
2.52 p.a. on the standard rate. In addition, a further 12 p.a. surcharge on
interest is levied on companies whose shares are not listed on a stock exchange.
Given the relatively low inflation rate in India, ICICI's interest rates have been
significantly lIositive in real terms and are expected to remain so, based on the
Bank's present inflation projection for India. Furthermore, ICICI's foreign
exchange subborrowers bear the exchange risk which, in the past, has resulted in
higher effective rates. ICICI continues to charge a 1Z p.a. commitment fee on
foreign currency loans, and a commitment fee ranging between 0.252 and 12 p.a. on
domestic currency loans after 180 days from the date of sanction up to the date of
loan agreement, whichever is earlier. ICICI's standard terms provide for maximum
loan maturities of up to 15 years including up to 3 years grace, which conform to
those offered by the other all India term-lending institutions.
IV. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
9.        Recent Performance.  A summary of ICICI's operational performance for
the last five years (1980-1984) is shown in Table 1.
Table 1:  Summary of Operations (1980-1984)
(Rs Million)
1980     1981      1982    1983       1984    Z (1984)
Operations
Loan Approvals
- Foreign Currency        766    1,065       973    1,390    1,653         29
- Local Currency        1,078    1,455    1,847    1,955    2,488          44
Total Loans          1,844    2,520    2,820    3,345    4,141          73
Guarantees                   11         7      141       260      284         5
Underwriting                 77       205      190       225      399         7
Direct Subscription          30        29       40        92       64         1
Suppliers Credit            341        78      298       370      567        10
Leasing                      -         -        -        122      223         4
Total Approvals      2,303    2,839    3,489    4,414    5,678         100
Commitments               2,254    2,797    3,465    4,031    4,366
Disbursements             1,692    2,226    2,922    3,348    3,881
Source: ICICI



-61-                        Annex 4
Page 5 of 11
As of December 31, 1984, ICICI had approved financing totalling Re 32.4 billion
(US$2.6 billion), committed Rs 27.6 billion And disbursed Rs 24.3 billion. During
the 1980-1984 period, ICICI increased its operations at a compounded annual rate
of about 25%. Lending in foreign currency grow at a rate of 211 p.a., compared
with the rate of 27X for rupee operations. During the period, ICICI's operations
expanded in new areas with merchant banking and leasing operations becoming more
important. Due to the substantial increase in non-landing operations, the share
of foreign currency lending as a percentage of ICICI's total operations declined
from 40X in 1981 to 29X in 1983. In 1984, ICICI's total disbursements of Rs 3.9
billion were equivalent to about 15X of those of all development finauce institu-
tion. and roughly about 8% of total private industrial investment in India.
10.       Impact and Characteristics of Past Assistance.  As of December 31, 1984,
ICICI had approved direct assistance totalling Rs 30.0 billion for some 4,100
projects. The sub-sectoral distribution of assistance reflect. ICICI's concentra-
tion on non-traditional and technologically more advanced industries. The
engineering sector including metal products, mechanical and eLectrical machinery
and transport equipment accounted for about 24% of the total followed by the
chemical and petrochemical industries (22Z). Other subsectors receiving a sig-
nificant proportion of ICICI financing were: textiles (12%); basic metal (9%);
cement (9Z); and pulp and paper (6Z). ICICI's clients are predominantly medium -a
large sized private enterprises. In 1984, ICICI's average assistance per project
was about Rs 13.9 million (US$1.1 million). However, only 45% of the firms had
net fixed assets of less than Rs 100 million. ICICI has emphasized the modern-
ization and upgrading of clients' plant and equipment to improve overall
industrial efficiency. These efforts involve advising clients at the appraisal
stage on technology choice. ICICI also provides technical assistance, through its
merchant banking division, to industries which need financial restructuring. The
geographical distribution of assisted projects is somewhat skewed toward the more
industrialized states in Western India; however, ICICI has made progress in
diversifying its portfolio geographicalLy, and its assistance now matches more
closely that of other lenders and investors in states with the infrastructure
necessary to attract medium and large private industrial projects. 1/
11.       ICICI carries out an annual review of the financial performance of
ccnpanies in its portfolio. Of this sample analyzed for the year 1983, the
average return on equity after tax was 14%, and return on capital employed was
about 18%, which is good. Most companies financed by ICICI have a sound capital
base with an average debt:equity ratio of 0.68. The economic impact of ICICI
financed projects also has been setisfactory. The weighted average ex-ante
economic rate of return for 96 projects approved in 1983 was 36%. These invest-
ments are expected to create about 38,000 new jobs at an average investment cost
per job of about US$19,400; this is reasonable in view of 'he concentration on
balancing and modernization. Furthermore, a significant proportion of ICICI's
cAients export, contributing 15% to 20% of India's manufactured exports.
1/ About 39% of approvals over the last five years (1980-1984) have gone to
projects in backward areas.



-62-                      Annex 4
Page 6    1
12.       Other Developmental Activitieo.  lCICI undertakes a broad range of
complementary activities and services aimed at enhancing its overall developmental
impact. These activities include: industrial subsector and policy studies;
identification and promotion of new projects; and training and advisory support
for other domestic and foreign financial institutions. Most of these activities
were initiated following the joint Bank/ICICI study of ICICI's developmental
impact in 1973. ICICI's program of industrial subsector and policy studies was
initiated under the Eleventh Bank Loan, with a study on the problems and prospects
of manufactured exports. This was followed by a study of the automotive products
subsector, carried out in conjunction with the Twelfth Loan. In addition to these
major studies, ICICI has completed a number of shorter papers on, for examplo,
price and distribution controls in the sugar and cement industries, the impact of
industrial licensing, and the economics of small coment, steel and paper plants.
These papers have been used by various Covernment Comittees in their policy
reviews. The development of its capacity to provide training and conoultancy
services to DFCs in other countries was a subsidiary focus. In connection with
the Thirteenth Loan, ICICI undertook two studies: energy utilization and conser-
vation in industry; and electrical equipment. During the Fourteenth Loan, a major
study on exports was conducted by ICICI. The study consisted of two parts:
first, an update of the previous analysis on relative profitability and
incentives; and second, a survey of clients to determine constraints in either
expanding or starting exports of manufactured goods. The Economics Department of
ICICI deepened that firm-level analysis as a partner in Bank sector work on
Industrial Export Development and Finance. The proposed project is an outgrowth
of this work.
V. Financial Aspects
13.       Financial Results and Position.  ICICI's financial results for the
1980-1984 period are summarized in Table 2. ICICI has performed exceptionally
well, espe-ially sitice 1981. Net profits after tax as a percentage of average
networth during the 1981-1984 period averaged 23% compared with 16% in 1980. The
improvement in profit was due to higher margin, volume and lower effective tax
rate. The interest rate spread increased from 2.8% in 1980 to 3.8% in 1983 and
declined to 2.5% in 1984 due to the rapid increase in ICICI's borrowing from
commercial narkets. Administrative expenses measured as percentage of average
total assets declined from 0.6% in 1981 to 0.5% in 1984.



-63-                           Annex 4
Page 7 of 11
Table 2: Summary of Financial Conditions and Results (1980-1984)
(Rs Billion)
December 31                       1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
ASSETS
Current Assets & Short-Term
Investments                     0.8       1.7       1.9      1.3       1.7
Investments
(Shares & Debentures)           0.6       0.6       0.6      0.8       0.8
Loans - Local Currency             3.3      4.3       5.8       7.7      9.4
- Foreign Currency          2.3       3.0      3.7       4.6       5.5
Fixed Asseti (Not)                 0.0      0.0       0.0      0.1       0.2
Total Assets                   7.0      9         12.1     1M 7.7
...      ...      ....      ....     m...
LIABILITIES & NETWORTH
Current Liabilities                0.3      0.4       0.6      0.8       1.1
Rupee Borrowings                   4.0      5.5       7.1      8.4      10.1
Foreign Currency Borrowing         2.1      2.9       3.5      4.1       5.1
Total Borrowings                   6.1      8.4      10.6      12.5     15.2
Paid-In Capital                    0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.4
Reserves                           0.3      0.5       0.6      0.8       0.9
Total Networth                     0.6      0.8       0.9       1.1      1.3
Total Liabilities &
Networth                    7.0       9.6      12.1     14.3      17.6
Net Profit (after tax)
Rs Million                       89       164       203      232       232
Net Profit as % of average
Networth                        16.0     24.6      24.8     23.5      19.3
Administrative expenses as
2 of average total assets       0.6       0.6       0.5      0.4       0.5
Long-Term debt:equity ratio        9.7     11.4      11.7      11.5     11.5
Debt:EquiI7 ratio (as defined
in the latest Bank agreement) 13.2       10.5       9.6     10.3       9.8
Source: ICICI.
ICICI's total assets passed the Rs 10.0 billion mark for the first time in 1982
and increased further to Rs 17.6 billion at the end of 1984. Assets were financed
by rupee borrowings (57O), foreign currency borrowings (29Z), other liabilities
(6O) and networth (8%). The rapid growth in assets corresponded to the surge in
ICICI's business from 1981. This was due to the improvement in investment climate
and ICICI's concerted efforts to diversify and promote new business. Due to the
increase in profit, ICICI's debt:equity ratio as defined in the latest Bank loan
agreement, declined from 10.5:1 in 1981 to 9.8:1 by the end of 1984.



-64-                         Annex 4
Page 8 of 11
14        Quality of Portfolio.  ICICI's portfolio quality remains sound.  At the
end of 1984, there were 241 projects in arrears involving a total amount Rs 1.8
billion, or 11.7X of the portfolio. However, the actual principal amount in
arrears was only Rs 195 million, or 1.32 of total principal outstanding. Out of
241 cases, 74 were in projects facing severe difficulties involving a total prin-
cipal of Rs 500 million. The actual principal in arrears were about Rs 96
million. These hard-core problem projects are handled by the Rehabilitation Unit
under the Merchant Banking Department. ICICI has a policy of not accruing inter-
est on non-performing assets and writing off the amounts in doubt annually as
needed. ICICI does not make provisions for losses, as provisions are not tax
deductible in India. Most ICICI loans are secured by fixed assets and the reser-
ves are adequate to cover the potential write-offs. Since ICICI lends to large
and fairly well established companies and has a good supervision system, it has
been able to maintain eood collection ratios. Collection ratios on current
amounts falling due have averaged over 862 during the 1981-1984 period and the
collection ratios to total dues (including the past dues) have been maintained
at around 752 in 1984. A major part of the arrears problem is due to consortium
lending, especially in cases in which IFCI and IDBI are the lead institutions.
ICICI has limited control on the speed in which other lead institutions act to
recover the loans. To overcome this problem, ICICI is trying to increase its
non-consortium business. Presently, ICICI can lend directly up to Rs 30 million
without going to the consortium. This is a sound strategy and should at least
enable ICICI to hold its present position regarding arrears.



-65-                          Annex 4
Page 9 of 11
VI. PROSPECTS
15.       Projected Operations.  Given the continued improvement in the investment
climate, existing pipeline and ICICI's promotional efforts, the business prospects
for ICICI are likely to be good. ICICI's management expects its lending opera-
tions to increase at an annual rate of 202 in current prices over the 1985-1989
period. This is achievable given ICICI's track record during the 1981-1984 period
and the relatively small size of ICICI. A summary of ICICI's projected operations
is provided in Table 3.
Table 3:  Summary of Projected Operations (1985-1989)
(Rs Billion)
December 31                 1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989
(Actual)
APPROVAL
Rupee Loans 1/               3.1       3.7      4.5       5.4      6.6       8.0
Foreign Currency Loan        1.7       2.0      2.4       2.8      3.4       4.1
Total Loans                  4.8       5.7      6.9       8.2     10.0      12.1
Investments
(Shares & Debentures)      0.4       0.5      0.7       0.7      0.8       0.9
Total                   5.2      6.2       7.6       8.9     10.8      13.0
=ao      a.a       now      QX-
COMMITMENTS
Rupee Loans                  2.7       3.1      3.7       4.3      5.2       6.3
Foreign Currency Loans       1.2       1.7      2.0       2.4      2.8       3.3
Total Loans                  3.9       3.8      5.7       6.7      8.0       9.6
Investments
(Shares & Debentures)      0.1      0.3       0.4      0.4       0.5       0.6
Total                   4.0       5.5      6.1       7.1      8.5      10.2
===  =-=   =e     fflQ      === 
DISBURSEMENTS                3.8       4.2      5.1       6.0      7.2       8.7
Guarantees (Committed)       0.1       0.3      0.4       0.4      0.5       0.5
Leasing                      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2
I/ Including suppliers' credit.
Source: ICICI.
16.       Resource Requirements and Commercial Borrowings.  From January 1, 1985
to June 30, 1987, ICICI would need about US$490 million to meet its foreign
exchange requirements. As of December 31, 1984, ICICI's foreign exchange resour-
ces amounted to about US$94 million leaving a gap of US$396.0 million. The
proposed Bank loan of US$160 million under the Industrial Export Project will
further reduce the gap to US$236 million. Given ICICI's established track record
in raising funds from the commercial markets, direct co-financing is not proposed.
Under the Industrial Export Project, ICICI would undertake to raise at least
US$160 million from the international financial markets to match the Bank loan on
a 50:50 basis. ICICI's planned commercial borrowings from January 1, 1985, until
the proposed Bank loan becomes effective will be included in the package.



-66-                       Annex 4
Page 10 of 11
17.       In 1981, ICICI agreed to raise US$150 million in commercial markets and
export credits to meet the co-financing requirements of the Fourteenth IBRD Loan
(2051-IN). As of December 31, 1984, ICICI has already raised US$150 million in
various forms. This includes: a US$50 million euro-currency loan in
October 1981; a floating rate note issue of US$30 million in October 1981; a U.K.
export credit of US$8.0 million; and a two currency auro-credit of US$50 million
in March 1982. The latest euro-credit was borrowed at attractive terms of seven
years with a spread of 3/4Z over LIBOR. The balance of US$28 million was raised
in Belgium in May 1984 through a tax bearing issue of US$30 million at a rate of
3/8 over LIBOR.
18.     ICICI has intensified its resource mobilization efforts.  It has already
completed a Yen bond issue in Tokyo Capital Market in August 1984 for an amount of
Yen 5 billion (equivalent to US$22 million). Thuse bonds carry a coupon rate of
7.92 (that is, the long-term prime rate in Japan without any mark-up) and an issue
price of 1002. It has a maturity of 7 years including a grace period of 4 years
to give an average life of 6.4 years. ICICI has also awarded the necessary man-
date to Midland Bank (jointly with National Westminster) on tax-sparing basis.
This loan is expected to be signed during the third week of September 1984. The
loan is for a maturity of 8 years including a grace period of 4 years. Interest
is payable on variable basis at a spread of 0.252 over LIBOR, with a front-end fee
of 3/16X and commitment fee of 3/16X. ICICI will draw the loan in two tranches,
that is, dollar tranche (US$25 million) and European Currency Units (ECU) tranche
(of ECUs 30 milLion). Borrowing in ECUs would afford ICICI and its subborrowers
benefit of averaging of interest rates as also exchange risks, as ECU is a com-
posite of 9 European currencies. ICICI is presently negotiating a credit arrange-
ment with a consortium of Swiss banks led by Union Bank of Switzerland. It is
expected that this credit line would be for Swiss Francs 50 million to be utilized
for financing imports from Switzerland. The line will be for a maturity of
10 years and carry interest spread of 1.75X over issuing rates in Switzerland
(present issuing rate being 4-3/4Z, the rate applicable to ICICI works out at 6.5Z
presently). Overall, ICICI has established good rapport with international banks
and enjoys favorable treatment as regards terms and conditions on which it obtains
resources as also in exploring new projects for borrowing funds. For instance,
ECUs are being obtained for the first time in India. Also, terms that ICICI
negotiated both for Yen bond issue and the proposed euro-loan in London are very
attractive. It is expected that ICICI will be in a position to float euro-bond
issues in the euro-markets in the near future.
19.     Projected Financial Positions.   ICICI's projected financial position and
results are summarized in Table 4.  Barring a major downturn in the Indian
economy, ICICI is expected to continue to be a financially sound and profitable
institution. ICICI's profits after tax are projected to increase from Rs 228
million in 1984 to Rs 497 million in 1989, roughly in line with the projected
growth in total assets. Return on equity is expected to average about 19%, which
is very good. The nominal interest spread on lending operations is expected to
remain above 2.5% p.a., which is satisfactory. Dividends are expected to be
maintained at 16Z, allowing an adequate ploughback of net earnings. Total assets
are expected to grow from Rs 17.6 billion in 1984 to Rs 38.1 billion in 1989, an
annual growth rate of about 17Z. The loan and investment portfolios are expected
to increase at about the same rate from Rs 15.7 billion in 1984 to Rs 34.3 billion
in 1989. ICICI expects to maintain its average debt uollection ratio at over 80%,



-67-                        Annex 4
Page 11 of 11
which should be attainable based on past performance and Lts strategy of increas-
ing direct lending. On this assumption, the debt service coverage ratio would
remain above 1.3:1 throughout the period, within the proposed limit of 1.1:1. In
the second half of 1984, ICICI plans to issue Re 67 million in new equity issues.
This will further strengthen the capital base of ICICI. ICICI's debt:equity ratio
is projected to remain well below the 12.l contractual limit.
Table 4:  Sumuary of Projected FinanciaL Conditions and Results (1984-1989)
(Rs Billions)
December 31                    1984     1985      1986     1987      1988      1989
(Actiial)   --
ASSETS
Current Assets                  1.7      1.7       2.0      2.4       2.6      3.2
Foreign Currency Loan           5.5      6.2       7.0      7.8       8.8      9.9
Local Currency Loan             9.4     11.1      13.2     15.7      18.8     22.3
Total Outstanding Loans        14.9     17.3      20.2     23.5      277.     32.2
Investments
(Shares & Debentures)         0.8      1.0       1.2      1.4       1.7      2.1
Fixed and Leased Assets         0.2      0.3       0.4      0.5       0.6      0.6
Total Assets              17.6     20.3     23.8      27.8     32.5      38.1
,,nm     ,,,,      ,m        _.       _-in      *-
LIABILITIES AND NETWORTH
Current Liabilities             1.1      1.2       1.4      1.6       1.8      2.1
Rupee Borrowings               10.1     11.9      14.1     16.7      19.8     23.6
Foreign Currency Borrowing      5.1      5.6       6.4      7.3       8.3      9.4
Total Borrowings          15.2     17.5     20.5      24.0     28.1      33.0
Paid-In Capital                 0.4      0.4       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5
Reserves                        0.9      1.2       1.4      1.7       2.1      2.5
Total Networth                  1.3      1 6       1 .9     2.2       2.6      3.0
Total Liabilities &
Networth                17.6     20.3     23.8      27.8     32.5      38.1
ass=  s=:s    ses      ==          = 
Net Profit (Rs Million)         228      324       322      413       407      497
Net Profit as Z of Avg.
Ietworth                     19.0     22.0      18.4     20.0      16.8     17.7
Administrative Expenses
as Z of Average Total
Assets                        0.5      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4       0.4
Debt Service Coverage Ratio    1.2       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3
Total Debt:Equity Ratio       11.7     10.9      10.8     10.9      10.8     11.0
Debt:Equity Ratio (IBRD)        9.8      9.8      10.0     10.0      10.2     10.4
Source: ICICI.



INDIA
First Industrial Ezuort Pr.ie-ett-oaoeriaz tro2uctS
USTIKATID COIUITMWU AND DISIUUBEU  scUIDUI
(9UO mliion)
Coieit-entc                                Disbursements
ICICI  Slu  fX-l   Ban  ICICI (Pf  Total   ICICI  Cf  laI-in amn        c ICICI V)  Total
IXli
January  - March 1986        15. 0   5.0     0.5        0.0       20.5     0.5   0.0    0.0         0.0         0.5
April    - Juoe 1986         1j&0  ILi       l.a        O.        26A.     La    Li    Li           LAS         la
Total                      30.0  15.0      1.5        0.5       47.0    2.0   2.5    0.5          0.0         5.0
July     - 8eptmber 1986   20.0  10.0         1.0       0.5       31.5    4.5   2.5    1.0          0.5         8.5 S
October  - December 1986    20.0  10.0       1.0        0.8       31.8    8.0   5.0    1.0          0.5        14.5
January   - March 1987       20.0  10.0       1.0       0.8       31.8   11.5  10.0    1.0          0.8        23.3
April    - June 1987         20.0  10.0       1.0      0L         31.3  IJA      10.0    IA         0Li        21.
Total                      80.0  40.0       4.0       2.8      126.8   38.5  27.5    4.0          2.6        72.6
ms
July     - September 1987   20.0  10.0        1.0       1.0       32.0   15.5  10.0    1.0          0.8        27.3
October  - Deember 1987    20.0   5.0         1.0       1.0       27.0   18.0  10.0    1.0          1.0        30.0
January   - March 1988       10.0   0.0       1.0       1.0       12.0   22.0  10.0    1.0          1.0        34.0
April    - Jun. 1988         0.0    0.0      IA         Li        -LA    2L3. k 0.0    1.0 IA0A                ILk
Total                      50.0  15.0       4.0       4.0       73.0   78.5  40.0    4.0          3.8       126.3
nis
July     - Septiber 1988    0.0   0.0        0.5        1.0        1.5   12.0   0.0    1.0          1.0        14.0
October  - Decmber 1988       0.0   0.0       0.0       1.0        1.0   10.0   0.0    0.5          1.0        11.5
January   - Ksrch 1989        0.0   0.0       0.0       0.7        0.7   10.0   0.0    0.0          1.0        11.0
April    - June 1989          Li    Li       0.0       0L. La    Li                  0.0 0I6                    9.6
Total                       0.0   0.0      0.5        2.7        3.2   41.0   0.0    1.5          3.6        46.1  
Grand Total               160.0  70.0    10.0        10.0      250.0  160.0  70.0   10.0         10.0       250.0 z .
source: mission eatimate..
.



-69-                        Annex 6
Page 1 of-1
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.  India:  Industrial Export Development and Finance - IDF Sector Reports
1. Lisht Industrial Export Development and Finance, August 12, 1983
2.  Notes an Trade and Industrial Policy (for Ministries of Industry and
Finance):
- Background to Engineering Export Development Project
- Industrial Policies and Procedures Affectirg Engineering Exports
- Export Profitability and Related Incentives
- Changes in Industrial Licensing, Foreign Collaboration, and
Capital Coods Imports
- Procedural Simplification for Export Marketing and
Productivity Funds
- Technology Upgrading - Procedural Aspects
3. Study of Market Trends, Importers' Reactions, and Comparative Costs
between India and its East Asian Competitors - June 30, 1983
4.  Light Industrial Export Development and Finance.  Asian Exports and
Incentives - Report on India and its East Asian Competitors,
September 1, 1983
5. Tables on Export Patterns of Major Engineering Products - India
and its Competitors
B.  Export Marketing Fund (EMF)
1. Organizations Involved in Export Promotion - Overview and Assessment
2. Implementation Plan for Export Marketing Fund
3. EMF - Costing and Projected Use
4. Export-Import Bank of India Act, 1981 and Annual Reports, 1982 and 1983
C. Productivity Fund (PF)
1. AIEI Annual Report 1983, Organization Chart
2. Action Program by ICICI and AIEI to Launch Operations of Productivity Fund
D. Industrial Finance
1. Organization, Staffing and Action Programs by Participating
Commercial Banks for Ancillary Financing Component
2. Operations of ICICI-Detailed Description and Statistics
3. Overview of Financial System and Industrial Finance



-70-                    Table A-1
Page 1 of 2
EXPORT MARKET TRENDS - MAJOR ENCINEERINC PRODUCTS
EXPORTS OF SOME ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
BY SELECTED DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
1 9 7 0                1 9 8 0
World                   World
Country          Commodity                  Value    Exports        Value     Exports
(USs MZ)               (US$ K)
World       Tools (Hand Tools)             1,114.69                6,192.30
Exports     Machine Tools                 2,002.39                 9,386.35
Paper Mill, Process Mach.       596.89                 2,598.03
Heating, Cooling Equipment    1,880.15                10,492.27
Pumps, Centrifuges            2,172.77                13,942.20
Motor Vehicle Parts           5,756.92                31,295.26
Motorcycles, Parts              641.81                 3,583.66
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts     224.01                 2,425.21
India       Tools (Hand Tools)                5.45      0.49          60.04      0.97
Machine Tools                     2.71     0.14           24.46      0.26
Paper Mill, Process Machinery     0.10     0.02            3.09      0.12
Heating, Cooling Equipment        1.53     0.08           14.24      0.14
Pumps, Centrifuges                3.10     0.14          28.15       0.20
Motor Vehicle Parts               7.13     0.12           49.18      0.16
Motorcycles, Parts                0.14     0.02           16.73      0.47
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts       8.99     4.01           74.00      3.05
Taiwan      Tools (Hand Tools)                2.90      0.26         173.29      2.80
Machine Tools                     2.11     0.11          170.20      1.81
Paper Mill, Process Machinery     1.11     0.19           12.72      0.49
Heating, Cooling Equipment        0.50     0.03            7.11      0.07
Pumps, Centrifuges                0.76     0.03          39.92       0.29
Motor Vehicle Parts               0.95     0.02           94.70      0.30
Motorcycles, Parts                6.36     0.99           85.66      2.39
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts       4.31     1.92         251.05      10.35
Korea       Tools (Hand Tools)                0.23      0.02          25.89      0.42
Machine Tools                     0.16     0.01           22.52      0.24
Paper Mill, Process Machinery     0.00     0.00            1.23      0.05
Heating, Cooling Equipment        0.04     0.00          44.10       0.42
Pumps, Centrifuges                0.10     0.00            7.26      0.05
Motor Vehicle Parts               0.21     0.00           20.48      0.07
Motorcycles, Parts                0.00     0.00            0.88      0.02
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts       0.08     0.04           17.88      0.74



-71-                        Table A-1
1 9 7 0                 1 9 8 0
World                    World
Country           Commodity                   Value    Exports         Value      Exports
(USs M)     (X)         (Us$ M)       (Z)
Singapore   Toole (Hand Tools)                 1.88       0.17         33.26        0.54
Machine Tools                      0.85      0.04         38.36        0.41
Paper Mill, Process Machinery    0.06        0.01          2.64        0.10
Heating, Cooling Equipment         2.17      0.12         36.30        0.35
Pumps, Centrifuges                 1.74      0.08        131.71        0.94
Motor Vehicle Parts               22.86      0.40         82.39        0.26
Motorcycles, Parts                 0.96      0.15          1.89        0.05
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts        0.32      0.14         12.68        0.52
Hong Kong   Tools (Hand Tools)                 2.12       0.19         46.62        0.75
Machine Tools                      1.18      0.06          4.65        0.05
Paper Mill, Process Machinery    0.14        0.02          0.71        0.03
Heating, Cooling Equipment         1.07      0.06          8.09        0.08
Pumps, Centrifuges                 0.21      0.01          6.60        0.05
Motor Vehicle Parts                N.A.      N.A.          0.84        0.00
Motorcycles, Parts                 N.A.      N.A.          N.A.        N.A.
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts       N.A.       N.A.          4.17        0.17



-72-                    Table A-2
EXPORTS OF SELECTED   0hCINCERINC PRODUCTS TO DEVELOPED COUNTRY MARKETS
1970                     1980
World                  World
Exports to               Exports to
Developed                Developed
Country                  Country
Country           Comodity                   Value      Markets         Value    Markets
(UTS 9 )                  (tUS  M)
WorLd       Tools (Hand Tools)                826.57                   4,443.53
Exports     Machine Tools                   1,420.19                   5,972.69
Paper Mill, Process Mach.         432.60                  1,786.64
Heating, Cooling Equipment    1,155.22                    5,058.47
Pumps, Centrifuges              1,456.02                  8,215.01
Motor Vehicle Parts             4,699.32                 23,254.72
Notorcyclesp Parts                530.40                  2,765.12
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts       161.51                  1,672.45
India       Tools (Hand Tool.)                  2.63      0.32            39.95    0.90
Machine Tools                       1.o8     0.12             10.75    0.18
Paper Mill, Process Machinery       0.01     0.00             0.07    0.00
Heating, Cooling Equipment         0O05      0.00             0.60    0.01
Pumps, Centrifuges                  0.88     0.06             6.16    0.07
Motor Vehicle Parts                 0.85     0.02             6.36    0.03
Motorcycles, Parts                  0.01      0.00             1.40    0.05
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts         0.76     0.47            10.66    0.64
Taiwan      Tools (Hand Tools)                   1.38     0.17           155.39    3.50
Kachine Tools                       0.15     0.01           141.50    2.37
Paper Mill, Process Machinery       0.04     0.01             0.22    0.01
Heating, Cooling Equipment          0.01     0.00              1.48    0.03
Pumps, Centrifuges                  0.01     0.00            26.95    0.33
Motor Vehicle Parts                 0.26     0.01            50.36    0.22
Motorcycles, Parts                  4.71     0.89            25.11    0.91
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts         1.60     0.99           156.21    9.34



-73-                         Tpable A A-2
Page 2 of 2
1 9 7 0                 1 9 8 0
World                     World
Exports to               Exports to
Developed                Developed
Country                  Country
Country           Commodity                     Value   Markets           Value   Markets
(uss M)    (X)           CUSS M)    (X)F*
Korea       Tools (Hand Tools)                   0.15      0.02           21.30      0.48
Machine Tools                       0.16      0.01           18.89      0.32
Paper Hill, Process Machinery       0.00      0.00            0.07      0.00
Heating, Cooling Equipment          0.04      0.00            1.41      0.03
Pumps, Centrifuges                  0.10      0.01            3.21      0.04
Motor Vehicle Parts                 0.10      0.00            4.59      0.02
Motorcycles, Parts                  0.00      0.00            0.04      0.00
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts         0.07      0.04            9.29      0.56
Singapore   Tools (Hand Tools)                   0.26      0.03            6.87      0.15
Machine Tools                       0.01      0.00           21.57      0.36
Paper Mill, Process Machinery       0.01      0.00            0.10      0.01
Heating, Cooling Equipment          0.01      0.00            3.96      0.08
Pumps, Centrifuges                  0.07      0.00           52.36      0.64
Motor Vehicle Parts                 1.02      0.02           12.06      0.05
Motorcycles, Parts                  0.04      0.01            0.06      0.00
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts         0.00      0.00            6.99      0.42
Hong Kong   Tools (Hand Tools)                   1.56      0.19           30.73     0.69
Machine Tools                       0.01      0.00            0.29      0.00
Paper Mill, Process Machinery       0.00      0.00            0.01      0.00
Heatingt Cooling Equipment          0.50      0.04            5.54      0.11
Pumps, Centrifuges                  0.09      0.01            2.57      0.03
Motor Vehicle Parts                 N.A.      N.A.            0.47      0.00
Motorcycles, Parts                  N.A.      N.A.            N.A.      N.A.
Bicycles (Non-motor), Parts         NA.       N.A.            2.62      0.16
Source: U.Nt Trade Statistics



-74-                          Table A-3
Page 1 of 1
ANNUAL EXPORT GROWTH RATES OF SELECTED PRODUCTS--
COMPARISON OF INDIA WITH DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
TO DEVELOPED COUNTRY MARKETS a/
1970-1980
Commodity            World  Brazil  Hong Kong  India  Korea  Singapore  Taiwan
Hand Tools            18.3   16.3      34.8      31.2   64.3    39.0        60.3
Diesel Engines        13.5   n.a.      n.a.      no.&    noa.      7.2      n.a.
Machine Tools         15.5   22.7      37.4      20.9   61.2   108.6        98.8
Process Plants        15.2   34.5      16.0      50.7   32.6    30.2        19.8
Heating, Cooling
Equipment            15.9   18.9      27.3      38.0   42.6    76.1        74.9
Pumps, Compressors   18.9   57.6       39.9      21.3   41.4    94.2       125.9
Auto Parts            17.3   36.4      n.a.      32.5   46.3    28.1        69.5
Bicycles, Parts       26.3   51.8      n.a.      32.2   63.0   141.2        58.1
1979-1983
(1979-81)          (1979-80)
Hand Tools            -4.2   -4.1       9.3     -10.9   30.4    16.1        21.3
Diesel Engines        -3.5   -8.7      n.a.     - 4.8  110.0    -5.9          --
Machine Tools         -7.0    1.5      20.1     - 1.6   59.4    -2.4        17.9
Process Plants        -2.6   54.4      n.a.      27.0   -3.6    65.1        -4.3
Heating, Cooling
Equipment             1.7   61.4    - 6.6       24.0  205.7    99.9        25.0
Pumps, Compressors   -0.4   11.5       50.5      n.a.   19.7    28.0        95.7
Auto Parts             2.3    4.4      n.a.     - 4.7   26.5    28.3        -1.2
Bicycles, Parts       -0.1    5.8    -10.9      - 3.5    5.3    12.4        42.6
(a Exports are average annual compound growth rates to developed country
market economies, according to the U.N. classification.



-75-                        Table A-4
PRODUCT SHARE IN MAJOR ENGINEERING PRODUCT EXPORTS
(in percentages)
Av. An.
Growth
1979/80     1983/84      1970-80
Bicycles                    5.5          4.1          20.8
Hand tools                  6.8          3.7          30.0
Auto Parts                  5.2          3.7          17.1
Diesels                     6.5          4.6          36.4
Comercial Vehicles
and Scooters               7.7          4.6           n/a
EXPORT GROWTH OF SELECTED PRODUCTS. 1977-1981
(Average Annual Growth Rates)
World
Market     Hong
Products              Economies  Kong   India  Singapore  Brazil  Korea
Auto Parts                   17.2      25.2     3.6      23.8     15.2
Cycles, Scooters             17.3    219.8    48.0        4.2     47.0
Commercial Vehicles          11.0    188.5    ninas      21.0     31.4    52.0
Electric Motors, Starters   12.0    125.0    83.0        15.4      6.1
Pumps, Compressors           11.0     73.0    na        42.0      61.0    37.0
Heating, Cooling Equip.       9.4     38.5    25.0       53.0     55.6   172.0
Machine Tools                13.0      35.0     4.6      29.0     63.0   107.0
Hand Tools                   13.0     27.0    13.0       27.0     27.0    26.0
Source: United Nations Yearbook of Trade Statistics, 1981.



-76-                        Table A-5
Pag 1 of 1
INDIAN EXPORTS OF SOME ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
DURING THE 1970.
(in millions of US$)
Average
1970/71    1979/80    Crowth P.&
1.  Automobiles and Auto Parts          28.4        117.4        17.1
2.  Diesel Engines, Parts, Pumps         3.6         59.0        36.4
3.  Bicycles and Parts                   9.2          50.4       20.8
4. Hand Tools, Small and Cutting
Tools                                5.8         61.7        30.0
5.  Iron and Steel Castings              6.0         41.7        24.0
b.  Machine Tools                        3.8          31.0       26.3
7.  Transmission Line Towers             3.8          16.5       17.7
8.  Mechanical Pumps                     0.9           9.5       29.9
9.  Air Compresrors and Parts            1.2           5.3       17.9
and Refrigeration Machinery          0.8          5.5        23.9
10.  Chemical and Process Plants          0.4          13.0       45.7
TOTAL                             64.0         411.0        23.0
TOTAL ENGINEERING liIDUSTRY:  Rs 1157.7        7366.8
US$ 154.4         909.5
Average Compound Crowth Rate:
These Groups:                 1970/71 - 1979/80 - 22.95 (232)
1979/80 - 1983/84 - 0.51X
Total Engineering Products:  1970/71 - 1979/80 - 21.8Z (22Z)
1979/80 - 1983/84 - 3.862



-77-                    ~~~~~Table 3-1
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT
Commercial lankint System
Balance Sheet
(As of December 31, 1982)
(Rs Billions)
National-
ized                Private  Foreign
9B1C /a    Banks    Subtotal   Banks    Banks   Subtotal  Total
ASSETS
Cash and Deposits
with Banks            24.3         55.4       79.7      6.6       2.3       8.9      88.6
Money at Call            8.2         4.0        12.2      1.7      0.2        1.9      14.1
Investments            52.1        106.3       158.4      7.8      5.1       12.9    171.3
Loans                  120.5       194.9       315.4    14.7       9.2       23.9    339.3
Bills Discounted A
for Collections      72.0         90.3       162.3      6.6     13.1       19.7    182.0
Other Assets            11.4        21.9        33.3      0.3       1.4       1.7      35.0
Total Assets        288.5        472.8       761.3    37.7      3i3                 830.3
mumEm    EmEE        07mm      :mmn    'mEum       mm,m   numm
Percentage           34.8         56.9        91.7      4.5      3.8        8.3    100.0
LIABILITIES AND NETWORTH
Deposits
Current                 37.8        69.5       107.3      5.1      4.8        9.9    117.2
Saving.                40.5         98.2       138.7      8.3      3.3       11.6    150.3
Fixed                  81.8        197.3       279.0    15.5       7.6       23.1    302.1
Total Deposits      160.0        365.0       525.0    28.9      15.7       44.6    569.6
Borrowings             25.4         17.6        43.0      0.8      2.6        3.4      46.4
Bills Payable          61.7         51.2       112.9      4.5     10.2       14.7    127.6
Other Liabilities       38.4        36.0        74.4      0.4      2.5        2.9      77.3
Total Liabilities   285.5        469.8       755.3                         65.6    820.9
Equity                  0.1          i.l         1.2      1.0      0.0        1.0       2.2
Reserves                2.9           1.9        4.8      2.1      0.3        2.4       7.2
Networth               3.0         3.0         6.0      3.1      0.3        3.4       9.4
Total Liabilities
and Networth      288.5        472.8       761.3    37.7      31.3       69.0    830.3
Profit before taxes
(Rs Millions)         203          572         775      37       170        207      983
Number of Banks            8          20          28       27       16         43        71
Number of Branches    9,196       21,389      30,585   4,022       129      4,151   34,736
Employees           226,615      419,401    646,016  46,793    2,867    57,560  703,576
Source:  Indian Banks' Association.
/a The State Bank of India and seven subsidiaries.



-78-                                  Table 5-2
' ,                        ~~~~~Page I On 
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT
Sectoral Breakdown of Co sse reial Bank Credits
(R Billions)
March           karch            March
Sector                                  1982       3     1983      2      1984      X
Public Food Procuremnt                   21.3    7.3      29.6    8.6      40.3   :0.0
Non-Food Crocs Bank Credits
(a) Priority Sectors
- AgricuLture                      46.2   15.8      52.7   15.3      61.3   15.2
- Small-Scale Industries           39.0   13.3      44.9   13.0      54.1   13.4
- Other Priority Sectors           21.6    7.4      25.6    7.4      32.9    8.1
(b) Industry
(Medium and Large)                111.5   38.2    132.8   38.4    149.6   37.0
(c) Wholesale Trade                    22.0    7.5      23.5    6.8      23.3    5.8
Cd) Other Sectors                      30.0   10.3      35.8   10.4      42.0   10.6
Total Non-Food Credit         270.3   92.7    315.3   91.4    364.2   90.0
Total Gross Bank Credit           291.6  100.0    344.9  100.0    404.5  100.0
.m..  .mmuin  -in .mm=m            in   mm...
Percentage of Priority Sector
Credits to Total Non-Food Credit       39.5             39.1             40.1
Source: Reserve Bank of India: Annual Report 1983-1984.



_79_                           Table 8-3
Page 1 ofn
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT
Advances to IS8s by Bank
(December 31, 1982)
(Re Millions)
No. of
Accounts              Balance
('000)      x     Outstanding      I
State Bank Croup                     512      48        14903       35
Punjab National Bank                  74       7         3,3S6        8
Bank of Baroda                        38       4         2,695        6
Bank of India                         47       4         2,688        6
Central Bank                          48       5         2,592        6
Canara Bank                           51       5         2,259         5
Other Nationalized Banks             293      27        14,0S6       33
Total                            1,063     100       42,549       100
Source:  Reserve Bank of India.
Term Lending to SSIs by Nationalized Come_rcial Banks
(December 31, 1981)
(Rs Millions)
Term Loans (including
Total Loan. and             installment credits)
Advances to SSIs            Cranted to SSIm
No.     Balance                No.      Balance
('000)  Outstanding    X       ('000)  Outstanding      X
State Bank Group          470      13,394      35         57        1,984      25
Punjab National Bank       61       3,020       8          13         571       7
Bank of Baroda             30       2,352       6           3         330       4
Bank of India              41       2,525       7           6         404       5
Canara Bank                50       1,873       5           8         306       4
Other Nationalized
Banks                 8,716      14,754      39         82        4,289      55
Total               9,368      37,918    100         169        7,884    100
Source:  Reserve Bank of India:  Statistical Tables Relating to Banks in
India, 1981.



-80-                              Table 3-4
Page 1 of I
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT
Coumercial Bank Lending To Engineerins Industries
Outstandins Loans
(Rs Billions)
June 1981     June 1982      March 1983      March 1984
All Engineering                     32.7           38.3          44.0            50.0
(Term Loans)                       2.2           2.6 /a         3.0 /a
Industry /b                        133.9         151.1          175.0           203.8
Total Non-Food Credits             236.9         269.5          310.2           362.2
Engineering as S of Industry        24.4          25.3           25.2            24.5
Engineering as X of Total
Non-Food Credits                  13.8          14.2           14.2            13.7
Industry as X of Total
Non-Food Credits                  56.5          56.0           56.4            56.0
Source:  Reserve Bank of India:  Annual Report 1983-1984.
/a Mission's estimtes.
lb Total of small, medium- and large-industries.
*J






