Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
0g At~' r7G '0
Rport No. P-4153-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND TO
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA, LIMITED (ICICI)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$160 MILLION EQUIVALENT
FOR THE
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT (ENGINEERING PRODUCTS) PROJECT
September 26, 1985
Thist documnmet ha a restrIced dIstrbtofm and may be used bY recipient only In the perfomfnuane Of
teir offical dldets l mab =W us otrwis be diswewd wito  Wod BDk athoriaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 19, 1985)
US$1.00      =  Rs  12.32
Rs 1.00      =  US$  0.08
Rs 1 million =  US$ 81,169
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 12.0,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
GOI:                          April 1   - March 31
ICICI:                        January 1 - December 31
Ex-port-Import Bank           January 1 - December 31
Commercial Banks              January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIEI        -    Association of Indian Engineering Industries
CCS         -    Cash Compensatory Support
DRC         -    Domestic Resource Cost
EMF         -    Export Marketing Fund
Exim Bank   -    Export-Import Bank of India
ERR         -    Economic Rate of Return
ESW         -    Economic and Sector Work
FERA        -    Foreign Equity Regulation Act
COI         -    Government of India
ICICI       -    Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI        -    Industrial Development Bank of India
LIBOR       -    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MRTP        -    Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices
PCB         -    Participating Commercial Bank
PCR         -    Project Completion Report
PF          -    Productivity Fund
RBI         -    Reserve Bank of India
REP         -    Replenishment Licenses
SSI         -    Small Scale Industries



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT (ENCrNEERDIC PMDUCTS) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:       COI Loan:     India, Acting by its President.
ICICI Loan:  Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of Itdia, Limited (ICICI).
Guarantor of     India, acting by its President
ICICI Loan:
Amount:          US$250 million equivalent, consisting of:
COI Loan:   US$90 million, and
ICICI Loan: US$160 million
Terms:           GOI and ICICI Loans: 20 years, including 5 years' grace,
at the standard variable interest rate. OI vould bear
the interest and ezchange risks on its loan and IICI's
sub-borrowers would bear the interest and exchange risk
on the ICICI loan.
Relending        COI Loan:  (i) For Engineering Ancillary Credits.  From GOI
Terms:                          to participating commercial banks (PCB),
funds are to be treated as equity contribution
by GOI to the PCB. From PCBs to Engineering
Ancillary sub-borrowers, 15X per annum with
a repayment period of 3-10 years, with
1-3 years' grace.
(ii) For the Productivity and Market Development
Funds. From OI to the Exim Bank and ICICI,
respectively, funds provided would be treated
as non-reimbursible contributions.
ICICI Loan:    From ICICI to sub-borrowers at a margin of 2Z
over the standard variable interest rate, with
repayments of up to 15 years, including up to
3 years' grace.
Project         The project would consist of two loans as follows:
Description:
(a)  GOI Loan:    A US$90 million IBERD loan to GOI for
financing (i) the foreign exchange costs of
credits made to engineering ancillary firms
by selected commercial banks for expansion
and upgrading (US$70 million); (ii) a
Productivity Fund, in the amount of $10
million, to finance up to 501 of the cost
I This docment has a resticted distbution and may be used by reapients only in the performoce of
teir offic duties Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authoriation.



-ii-
of activities aimed at improving product
quality and plant productivity; and
(iii) an Export Marketing Fund, in the
amount of US$10 million, to finance up to
50% of the costs of eligible development
activities of firms engaged in exporting
products identified for "export" thrust;
and
(b)  ICICI Loan:  A US$160 million IBRD loan to ICICI, with
Government guarantee, to finance the for-
eign exchange portion of subloans, for
export-oriented subprojects, with US$100
million earmarked specifically for
engineering subprojects.
The reform measures announced by the Government during 1985
represent major moves to address the problems blocking
efficiency and exports of manufactured products; these
measures are expected to achieve significant improvements in
cost competitiveness, quality and subsequently, the volume of
exports. As with all projects, risks exist that the
capabilities of the implementing agencies will be inadequate
to commit the funds on schedule to subprojects which meet
agreed eligibility criteria. Based on past experience, we
anticipate no difficulties in ICICI or Exim Bank complying
with their responsibilities under the project. In the case
of commercial bank financing of engineering ancillaries,
there is a risk of slow commitments at the outset of the
project.  However, the participating commercial banks have
now prepared action programs for implementing the ancillary
financing component which are considered satisfactory. Full
implementation of this component is expected to commence only
in 1986. There is also the risk that COI may not sustain the
policy initiatives taken recently. However the changes
already announced by GOI are unlikely to be withdrawn and
there is every indication that, rather than revert to earlier
policies, COI is following an agenda of reform that will lead
to further relaxation of controls in the near future.



-iii-~~~~~~~~~~~
Financing PLan:
Proiect Financing
(US$ million)
---Foreign -Lcal
IBRD      Commercial   ICICI   PCBs   Sponsors         Total
ICICI                     160 1/        160         180     -         260         760
Commercial Banks           70 2/         -           -      60         70         200
Productivity Fund         l o           -           -      -          10          20
Export Marketing Fund      10 2-                            -          10          20
Total                   250           160         180     60        350       1,000
Estimated Commitments                    FY86     FY87     FY88      FY89
and Disbursements:
Commitments
Annual                              47.0    126.8      73.0      3,2
Cumlative                            47.0    173.8    246.8    250.0
Disbursements
Annual                                5.0     72.6    126.3     46.1
cumulative                            5.0     77.6    203.9    250.0
Appraisal Report: No. 5649-IN, dated September 19, 1985.
1/ ICICI Loan.
2/ GOI Loan.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, AND A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA, LIMITED,
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF INDIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in the amount of US$90 million equivalent to GOI to help finance the
foreign exchange requirements associated with lending by selected par-
ticipating commercial banks to engineering ancillary companies, and to
finance, in part, the costs of export marketing and productivity improve-
ment initiatives; and a proposed loan in an amount of US$160 million
equivalent to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India,
Limited (ICICI) with the guarantee of the Government of India (GOI) to
help finance ICICI's foreign exchange requirements associated with loans
made for eligible export-oriented investment projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on Nay 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
760 million (in mid-1985) and an average per capita income of about
US$260. Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, accounting for 36Z
of CDP, 231 of exports and about two-thirds of employment. The steady
increase in population, which continues at a rate of 2.2Z a year, has put
increasing pressure on natural resources, in particular cultivable land.
By the mid-1960s, nearly all productive land had been brought under
cultivation. While irrigation continues to increase total cultivable
area, an increasing share of the labor force will have to be absorbed in
non-agricultural activities. Industrial development has not progressed
rapidly enough to provide employment opportunities for the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with sig-
nificantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result the long-
term growth of per capita income has only averaged about 1.4X p.a. and
close to one-half of India's population continues to live below the
poverty line. The pervasiveness and intensity of poverty is such that its
alleviation has been and remains at the core of India's development
strategy.
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was
generally characterized by slow economic growth, moderate inflation and
a sustainable external position. CDP rose at about 3.5%, with agriculture
and industry growing at 1.8Z and 4.8% respectively; imports increased by



-2-
4.61 and exports by 5.8% a year. India was able to reduce its dependence
on foodgrain imports from a peak of 14Z of total foodgrain consumption in



-3-
5.1% per annum, 1/ well above India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%.
However, overall growth during the first half of the 1980s has not been
steady, mainly because of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural
production. In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered
from the 1979 drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6Z and 5.3%,
respectively. The recovery was particularly robust in agriculture where
normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% in 1980/81 and 5.5%
in 1981/82. A severe drought in mid-1982 brought the economic recovery
to a halt. Agricultural output declined by 4%, which in turn reduced GDP
growth to only 1.8%, and put further strains on the balance of payments
and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of various
economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the increased allocation of power to irrigation pumps
mitigated the adverse effects of the poor monsoon. An excellent monsoon
combined with satisfactory performance of the infrastructure sectors, in
particular coal and transport, led to a recovery of the economy in
1983/84. Agricultural output rose by 9%, industrial output by 4.5% and
overall GDP by 7.4%. The power sector, however, emerged again as a con-
straint on higher growth, especially in industry. In 1984/85, despite a
mediocre monsoon and difficult political circumstances, the aggregate
growth of the economy is likely to range between 4 and 4.5%.
8.      During the Sixth Plan period, foodgrain production continued to
grow at an average annual rate of 2.6% a year-sufficient to maintain a
broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic demand. The
progress achieved is an indication of the effectiveness of programs to
expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage efficient use of
other agricultural inputs which are being implemented. Bountiful harvests
have led to record foodgrain stocks in recent years. Over the past year,
Government held stocks have increased by more than 40%. Maintenance of
ample, balanced operating stocks to ensure smooth operation and even
expansion of the public distribution system remains a top priority of
Indian agricultural policy. Yet, the financial cost of foodgrain storage
and subsidies represent ~a rapidly growing burden on the budget.
9.     Growth of the industrial sector during the Sixth Plan period was
slow and uneven. Industrial growth averaged about 3.4% a year-below the
growth rates achieved in the 1961s and 1970s. An inadequate policy
environment, coupled with depressed domestic demand, power and raw
material shortages, as well as labor unrest are the main causes for the
slower than anticipated growth of the industrial sector. After the severe
drought in 1979/80, manufacturing output grew at 1.7% in 1980/81 and 3.3%
11 Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.1%
per annum.  However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years
because of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5% GDP
growth per annum and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between
1980/81-1983/84 (two "normal" years) are more representative of the
growth rates during the period.



-4-
1981/82. The drought in 1982/83, which led to widespread shortfalls of
agro-based raw materials and a sharp drop in the demand for consumer
durables, combined with a prolonged textile strike in Bombay, reduced the
growth of industrial output to 1.7Z in that year. Following the excellent
monsoon in 1983/84, industrial output gained momentum and grew by 5.0Z.
Preliminary estimates place the growth of the manufacturing sector at
about 5.5% in 1984/85.
10.     The performance of the infrastructure sectors was mixed under the
Sixth Plan. While electric power generation, coal production and railway
traffic grew by 8.7%, 6X and 2.5% a year respectively, oil and gas produc-
tion increased by 22.6Z. The rapid expansion of domestic oil production
is largely the result of India's oil development program. Backed by
substantial financial commitment, performance under the program has been
excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan targets. In 1984/85 domestic oil production is estimated to
have reached 29.4 million tons. While the gap between domestic consump-
tion of petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil
imports dropped from 63Z of consumption in 1979/80 to 30% in 1984/85.
About two-thirds of current output comes from offshore fields around
Bombay High. As most of these fields have now reached their mature stage,
further increases in domestic oil production will have to come mainly from
new discoveries.
11.     India's economy has reverted from a situation of a resource
surplus in the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit during the
Sixth Plan period. The gap between gross investment and national savings
increased from negligible levels to an average of 2.1% of GDP in 1980-85.
Gross domestic capital formation increased from an average of 22.6% of GDP
in 1975-80 to 24.7% in 1980-85 while gross national savings remained
constant at an average of 22.6% of GDP in both periods. The increase in
capital formation mainly resulted from an increase in the public invest-
ment rate, but it was largely a financial rather than a real phenomenon
since prices of investment goods increased considerably faster than the
general price level.
12.     The basic thrust of fiscal policy during the Sixth Plan was to
provide sufficient resources for growth and planned investment while
maintaining inflation under control. However, the Sixth Plan period was
characterized by significant budgetary resource constraints. Despite
massive additional resource mobilization efforts, public sector deficits
exceeded 7% of GDP as compared to only 4-5% of GDP during the mid-1970s.
The shortfall was met by additional market borrowings, both domestically
and from abroad and by deficit financing. Major reasons behind the large
deficits were continued losses by most departmentally-run undertakings,
unsatisfactory performance of the two major non-departmental undertakings
of the States (the State Electricity Boards and the State Road Transport
Corporations), and the increasing importance of subsidies which are
estimated to have reached 2.8% of CDP in 1984/85. Of these, fertilizer
accounted for more than 0.8% of GDP, and food subsidies nearly 0.5Z of
GDP.



-5-
13.     Developments in the savings-investment balances were mirrored in
the balance of payments. Thus, India's current account balance, which had
recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, reverted to deficits
averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1Z of GDP during 1980-85. Several develop-
ments contributed to these reLatively large deficits. First, the terms of
trade deteriorated sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price
increases and continued to move against India during the first three years
of the 1980s. Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial
inputs was pursued. Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts
fell off, workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting slower development
activity in the Middle East), and payment of interest on higher levels of
foreign debt increased. Fourth, export growth was sluggish partly due to
growing domestic demand, and, perhaps most significantly, due to depressed
foreign markets and prices. Faced with a growing need for external capi-
tal inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India drew SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF and
borrowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar
market and increased the use of suppliers' and export credits.
14.     Price performance during the Sixth Plan period has been mixed.
The overall improvement in economic performance in the early 1980s, com-
bined with more restrictive monetary policies in 1981/82 and 1982/83,
resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate of
wholesale prices declined from 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83.
The lagged effects of shortages of foodgrains in 1982/83 and of other
agricultural products and industrial goods in 1983184 coupled with a rise
in the domestic cost of imports and rapid liquidity growth, gave a boost
to inflationary pressures towards the end of 1983/84. The annual average
growth of wholesale prices rose to over 9Z in 1983/84, and the rate of
growth of consumer prices exceeded 12Z. In September 1984, the Government
took a number of measures to dampen pressure on prices including increased
imports of important agricultural commodities (sugar, jute, coconut oil
and others), releases of sugar stocks for distribution through fair price
shops, and a reduction in wheat prices for flour mills. These measures,
together with a decline in cereal prices as a result of the bumper crop in
1983/84 and a generally restrictive budgetary policy, led to a slowdown in
the rate of increase of wholesale prices to about 7.1Z in 1984/85.
15.     Developments in the Indian economy during the Sixth Plan under-
score the progress that has been made in recent years towards accelerated
GDP growth, external adjustment, and increased investment. The expe_,ence
of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity to grow and
develop at a more rapid pace. It is a tribute both to the fundamental
soundness of key policies and programs, particularly in agriculture, and
to the strength and effectiveness of public administration, that neither
the serious political disturbances in Punjab, nor the assassination of
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, resulted in significant disruptions to the
performance of the economy in the last year of the Sixth Plan. But the
results during the Plan period also highlight the disappointing perfor-
mance of industry, the continuing shortfalls in electric power generation,



-6-
the rising public sector deficits, the importance of regaining and sus-
taining momentum in export growth and the need for continued prudent
economic management so as to avoid a resurgence of inflation while gener-
ating adequate resources for development. This mixture of achievements
and challenges provides the context for an assessment of development
prospects and policies.
Development Prospects and Policies
16.     To deal effectively with its dual challenges of alleviating per-
vasive poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor
force, the Seventh Plan is expected to aim at sustaining an annual rate of
growth of GDP of at least 5%. This will place heavy demands on policy
adjustment and entail major challenges. India will need to: (a) maintain
the recent higher rate of expansion of agricultural production;
(b) accelerate industrial production and export growth through policy
changes which enhance competition and efficiency; (c) expand supply
capacities in the economy by improving basic infrastructure services and
the availability of energy; (d) improve the efficiency with which resour-
ces are used, including particularly the existing capital stock in
infrastructure and industry; and (e) further improve the already high
resource mobilization effort.
17.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth
Plan, Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of the
decade. As possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink,
agricultural growth will depend on finding new ways of increasing the
productivity of land through further development of irrigation, better
water management, more intensive use of new technology, efficient delivery
of inputs and services, and appropriate pricing policies. High priority
must be given to the expansion of the country's irrigable area through
completion of ongoing irrigation projects, as well as selective investment
in new undertakings. Besides creating new irrigation potential, the
efficiency of irrigated farming will have to be enhanced through the
improvement of water management practices in existing irrigation systems.
Greater emphasis should also be given to obtaining higher yields under
rainfed and dryland farming conditions. Finally, even greater efforts
must be made to build and strengthen institutions to ensure the efficient
delivery of agricultural services, input supplies, credit and technology.
18.     Industry and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's GDP growth
rate will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production
and export growth to be attained through improved productivity and
efficiency. A key requirement will be greater competitive pressure on
industry than has been the case in the past. The size and domestic orien-
tation of the Indian economy make it necessary that this competitive
pressure come mainly from within the domestic economy. An important
complement, however, will be greater exposure to foreign trade to stimu-
late domestic competition as well as to induce technological innovation
and modernization.



-7-
19.     To increase domestic competition, domestic policies will need to
allow freer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater
reliance on market price signals. While the Government has taken various
initiatives in the above directions during the past several years, the
most significant were announced in the context of the 1985186 Budget.
These include the broadening of licensing categories for certain
industries, delicensing for others, increases in the size limits for
IIRP 1/ and small-scale industries, reductions in the incentive for small-
scale industries to stay small and various initiatives to stimulate effi-
cient indigenization of 'sunrise' industries (energy exploration
equipment, computers, telecommunication equipment, motor vehicles and
parts, general electronics). These are described in greater detail in
paragraphs 43-51 of this report. These are significant advances that need
to be sustained in future years.
20.     Changes in external trade policy will also be required to stimu-
late export growth which is essential not only for current financing of
imports, but to enhance borrowing capacity, to service debt, to provide an
impetus to the economy from the demand side, and to expose entrepreneurs
to the quality-consciousness of competitive external markets. While some
changes have been recently introduced (paras 52-53), there remains a need
to: (a) provide greater access to imported inputs and capital goods
through continued import liberalization (b) review tariffs, eliminating
anomalies and lowering their overall level; and {c) modify trade policies
in such a way that the net impact of incentives is more neutral between
exports and import substitution.
21.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently
constitute about one-third of total investment in India, and the
efficiency with which these investments are managed has an important
bearing on the efficiency of total investment and the growth rate of the
entire economy. There is substantial evidence that better planning and
management of public investments in powe,, coal, railways and irrigation
could improve returns and lower the current capital-output ratios. For
example, more efficient use of investment could be achieved by better
water management in irrigation projects, improved load factors in thermal
power generation, better capacity utilization in the fertilizer industry
and improved efficiency in railway transport.
22.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6%
in 1980-85) is already high for a country at India's level of income.
Nevertheless, the investment required to sustain the relatively high GDP
growth rates realized during the Sixth Plan period--while holding foreign
savings as a share of GDP at prudent levels--will require some further
increase in the aggx2gate savings rate especially in public savings.
Because there will continue to be well-founded demands for expansion of
current and capital expenditures in the public sector, the burden for a
1/ Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969.



-8-
reduction in the savings investment gap has to be put on the revenue side.
Increasing tax rates beyond their current high levels would be counter
productive. Thus, economically efficient pricing policies in public
enterprises, supported by improvements in their operational efficiency,
are to be preferred over tax increases as vehicles for increased public
resource mobilization. The sheer size of past and present public
enterprise investment indicates that if proper returns were made even only
a part of them, an increase in revenues of about 32 of GDP would be
attainable. In a number of sectors, e.g. thermal power, railways, and
fertilizer, concerted efforts are being made--with Bank assistance-to
increase efficiency and reduce costs. These efforts need to be improved
and expanded into new areas.
23.     Balance of Payments.  A policy of sustained GDP growth of 5Z per
annum will need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable
balance of payments position. Acceleration of industrial growth will lead
to a substantial increase in import requirements, even after allowing for
continued import substitution of key bulk commodity items. Bank staff
estimates place the export volume growth necessary to support these grow-
ing import requirements without excessive increases in external borrowing
at about 8Z a year over the Seventh Plan period. Prospects for India to
attain the needed higher export growth rates appear to be reasonably good
because India's share in total world exports in value terms is only about
0.4%, leaving ample room for growth. Furthermore, India's exports are
relatively less sensitive to fluctuations in demand in the OECD industrial
countries because exports are well diversified with respect to both
products and markets. Nevertheless, success in India's export drive will
depend heavily on changes in domestic policy to improve the supply and
profitability of exports and this project-the first in a series of
projects aimed at supporting the Government by financing part of the costs
resulting from reforms in industrial and trade policies, is expected to
generate substantial additional export income.
24.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to
need substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for
the foreseeable future. Even with 8% export growth, the 5Z GDP growth
implies an increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to
US$34.5 billion between the Sixth and Seventh Plan periods. In the past,
the bulk of this financing was provided in the form of official develop-
ment assistance. In more recent years the availability of concessional
assistance to India has declined. Total bilateral grants and concessional
loans declined from a level of about US$1.3 billion per annum over the
years 1979180-1981182 to US$1 billion in 1983/84. Moreover, there was a
large deterioration in the terms of aid from multilateral sources. For
example, while total lending from the Bank Group continued to increase
in nominal terms, the grant element declined from 71% to 41Z as new com-
mitments of IDA declined from a peak of $1,535 million in FY80 to $673 mil-
lion in FY85.
25.     In the event that official development assistance does not
increase significantly from recent levels, nearly the full additional



-9-
financing required would have to be provided from additional non-
concessional borrowing from official and commercial sources.  This will
increase India's debt service ratio from the present level of 15.5Z to
21.6Z by 1989/90. Provided India can in fact, expand export earnings
along the lines described earlier, and provided India's past record of
prudent borrowing and debt management continues, the country should be
able to raise the projected amounts. While its foreign resource require-
ments would be manageable, the increase in its external debt exposure
would leave it with little cushion to deal with unfavorable eventualities
and with the risks of policy change.
26.     In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing,
including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary
to cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth strategy
described earlier. Although India is currently in a position to increase
borrowing on comercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there
are, of course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth
objectives rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.
While therefore a greater volume of both official concessional and non-
concessional assistance is warranted, concessional assistance, in
particular, will be invaluable in moderating the build-up in India's debt
service burden. Apart from the quantitative arguments for concessional
aid, there remains the imperative to assist India in addressing the
problems of pervasive poverty. While India is now better placed than
other poor countries to tackle its development problems, the mobilization
of additional resources to address poverty problems is heavily
constrained. Concessional assistance can also play a very important role
in relieving this constraint.
27.     Summary.  India has demonstrated that it can sustain a rate of
growth closer to 5.0X per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0Z per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of 1.4Z per annum. Success in these efforts
would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in
India. Development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the
past. This will require the continuation of the current development
strategy which assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance
discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and investment in
infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of external borrowing and aid.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
28.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 84 loans and 174 development
credits to India totalling US$6,818 million and US$12,934 million (both
net of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,465 million
has been repaid, and US$5,909 million was still undisbursed as of March
31, 1985. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year
through March 31, 1985 totalled US$787 million, representing a decrease of



-10-
about 27 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a
summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1985.
29.     Since 1959, IFC has made 32 commitments in India totalling US$265
million, of which a total of US$145 million has been repaid, sold, ter-
minated or cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million
represents loans and US$7 million equity. A sammary statement of IFC
disbursements as of March 31, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
30.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments
in irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of
basic agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer,
marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending
program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the
infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth in India,
particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways and
telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of mediumr and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development
finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads
project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastruc-
ture projects.
31.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the
approach being taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan.
First, high priority will continue to be given to GOI's agricultural
program. While India has made significant progress in agriculture,
productivity growth will have to be sustained to improve the balance
between food demand and supply and to contribute to poverty aLleviation
and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to support irrigation,
fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural extension and
credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater efficiency
and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assistance will
be provided for industrial development. Third, the review of performance
under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue to be
given to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
capacity and to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon
resources. Accordingly, the Bank Group will continue to support the
development of the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors to
alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in both agricultural
and industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban development and other
GOI basic social services programs for the poor will also continue in
light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lowering
birth and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year.   -



-11-
32.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been E recurrent theme
of Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India
Consortium. Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India
successfully adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-
1970s. However, India continues to require a substantial level of foreign
assistance both to offset the overall deterioration in the world trade
environment, and to sustain the relatively higher investment and growth
rates achieved during the Sixth Plan period. As in the past, Bank Group
assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most
projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as
agriculture and irrigation.
33.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, exter-
nal capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms.
Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past
was provided from IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a
peak of US$1.5 billion in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints related
to IDA. The amount of IDA funds available to India is likely to remain
small in relation to India's needs for external support. Thus, this
requirement for additional assistance will have to be met, in part,
through larger Bank lending. Given its development prospects and
policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA
assistance.  A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth
in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings, and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued
economic growth and improvement in the balance of payments. India's debt
service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85. This ratio is
projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the hardening
structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are
considerably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will
not adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
34.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the
Bank Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 131 of gross
disbursements, and 121 of net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33X and
37%, respectively, in 1983/84. In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total
debt service payments were to the Bank Group. On March 31, 1984, India's
outstanding and disbursed external public debt was estimated to be about
US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$9.6 billion or 36%
(IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As of March 31, 1985
outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank totalled
US$18,288 million, of which US$5,909 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,379 million.



-12-
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Sectoral Overview
35.     Industrial Output and Exports.  In spite of India's substantial
industrial base, resource endowment, and pool of skilled manpower,
industrial growth has been sluggish and India's share of developing
country exports has slipped during the past 30 years. The growth rate in
manufacturing has declined in each decade since 1950, and averaged only
3.8% per annum in real terms from 1971 to 1980. During the same period,
industry's contribution to GDP increased only marginally, reaching about
16% in 1981. Although manufactured exports grew at a more rapid rate than
output, India's 6.8% annual export growth was outstripped by the overall
growth of exports in developing countries, which has averaged nearly 12%
per annum in the past 20 years. There has been a significant shift in the
composition of India's manufactured exports. In 1950/51, jute goods and
cotton textiles accounted for 86% of manufactured exports. By 1982/83,
light industrial products (engineering products, gems and jewelry,
garments, leather products, and handicrafts) accounted for over 80% of
these exports, while the jute/cotton products fell to less than 12% of the
total.
36.     The Engineering Products Subsector.  Within the engineering
subsector, India's exports grew by 22% per annum during the 1970s compared
with a 35% per annum growth in these exports by developing countries
during the same period. Consequently, India's share of such exports fell
from 9.1% in 1970/71 to 3.3% by 1982/83 and, by 1982/83, India's US$1.3
billion of engineering exports represented less than 0.2Z of world trade
in these products. Historically the bulk of the production of engineering
goods has been destined for local markets with its lower quality
requirements, and it is these lower quality products that have been
exported to less demanding markets-primarily to other developing and
Middle East countries. While these markets are important, volume require-
ments are low, necessitating a wide dispersion of marketing effort, and
some of these markets for existing Indian products now have limited
prospects for expansion, either due to import-substitution policies,
foreign exchange constraints, and/or the availability of lower price,
better quality competitive products.
The Industrial Policy Environment
37.     The disappointing performance of the industrial sector over the
past three decades stems, in part at least, from the policy environment
which was designed to promote a high degree of self-sufficiency through
import replacements. India's dependence on imports has indeed been
reduced substantially and there is now a diverse and largely self-
sufficient industrial base with impressive technological capabilities in
many fields. However, many branches of the industrial sector are plagued
by poor quality output and unduly high costs, and hence prices that, among
other things, mitigate against a strong export performance. This situa-
tion has arisen mainly as a result of the effects of high import tariffs
and substantial regulation of industrial activity that, together, have



-13-
fostered a manufacturing industry that is burdened by inappropriate scales
of production and obsolete technology. The situation has also been
exacerbated by unreliable infrastructural support.
38.     Tariff levels.  A major problem affecting Indian industry is the
high level of scheduled tariff rates. Unduly high rates have:
(a) created a bias in relative incentives against exports that is too
large for conventional export incentives to neutralize; (b) resulted in
the need to give special tariff reductions/exemptions for imported capital
goods and material inputs which, in turn, increase the effective protec-
tion of the user industry; and (c) resulted in relatively low or even
negative protection for those local industries that are competing with
imports for which quantitative restrictions have been relaxed and tariff
reductions/exemptions granted. Some tariff reductions have been
announced. In 1983, substantial reductions were effected in chemicals,
iron and steel, metal and metal products and machinery. In August 1984,
excise duties on most electronic products were substantially reduced or
eliminated.
39.     Capacity Controls.  In the past, GOI has imposed regulations that
have severely limited growth of larger firms and foreign collaboration, 1/
protected small-scale industries (SSI), reserved incremental output of
many light industrial products for the small-scale sector, provided SSIs
with tax exemptions and priority access to credit, and controlled the
imports of inputs, capital goods, and technology. While India's
industrial base has become large and diversified, unit costs are high and
quality poor. The insulated domestic market and rigid capacity expansion
policies have promoted poor quality products, created a bias in the risk-
reward structure favoring domestic sales over exports, and eroded poten-
tial cost competitiveness by making both efficient subcontracting and
economies of scale difficult to achieve. The result is that export oppor-
tunities have been missed, particularly with respect to light industrial
product lines in which India should be competitive.
40.     Transfer of Technology.  In addition to controlling capacity, GOI
has, in the past, discouraged technology transfer arrangements for many
products. For example, the list of products for which foreign technical
or equity collaboration has been "deemed unnecessary" has included many
engineering products with high export potential. In the engineering
product groups studied, isolation from competition with other exporters in
the international marketplace has led to designs and quality levels well
behind those of other exporters. This in turn has retarded the introduc-
tion of improved technologies with the concomitant adverse impact on the
quality and cost of products for the local market. Even where foreign
collaboration has been allowed, clearance proccJures limited the prospects
for acquiring foreign consultants, technology or marketing agreements.
As a result, India's labor cost advantages have often been offset by a
reliance on obsolete equipment and methods, which have increased unit
1/ Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1952 (MRTP) and
Foreign Equity Regulation Act (FERA).



-14-
costs and lowered product quality at the very time when competitive pres-
sures would suggest the obverse. While in-house research and development
(R&D) could update product technology in many instances, the marketing and
industrial infrastructure in India is too fragmented and/or insulated for
this to happen in a cost-efficient manner.
41.     Export Incentives.   The present system of protection and controlled
capacity expansion has contributed to the lower risk and higher profits
for domestic sales. In recognition of the various disincentives, includ-
ing especiaLly the high levels of tariffs that have worked against
exporters, the Government has, in the past, introduced a range of export
incentives. However, the adoption of incentives such as duty drawback and
cash compensatory support have had limited impact as they did not ade-
quately redress the relative profits of export sales verses domestic
sales. As a result, exports represent only a small share of the total
manufacturing output and have been viewed by most manufacturers as a
residual means of using temporary capacity surpluses. Furthermore, one
effect of SSI reservations and other related incentives has been a frag-
mentation of India's exporting efforts among many small firms and its
image has become that of a low quality and unreliable producer.
42.     In the short- to medium- term, export incentives will continue to
be needed to reduce the anti-export bias and thereby improve the relative
profitability of exports. In addition to the Cash Compensatory Support
(CCS) scheme, which is considered the simplest and most important existing
export incentive, other measures have been examined, including a revision
of duty drawback rates to incorporate indirect taxes, provision of a more
generous tax exemption on export profits, and provision of financial
incentives for market development expenditures. A recent analysis of the
existing import procedures, covering the import of inputs required by
exporting firms, has provided strong arguments for extending the duty
exemption scheme, with close monitoring, to avoid tying up exporters'
funds. Also, the need to liberalize firms' access to imported capital
goods at lower duty rates has been identified so that local firms can
acquire adequate modern equipment, and capital goods manufacturers will be
spurred to improve quality.
Recent Government Reform Initiatives
43.     Within GOI, there is now a growing consensus among policy-makers
that, apart from improvements in infrastructural bottlenecks, especially
power, the prospects for raising industrial output depend on GOI's will-
ingness to change its trade and industrial policies so that controls on
industrial prices and production are relaxed and greater efficiency in
investment and operations are achieved through exposure to both internal
and external competition. To give effect to this change in attitude, GOI
established three committees charged with the responsibility of looking
for ways to improve industrial performance.
44.     The first is the Committee on Perspective Plan and Strategy for
Export of Engineering and Capital Goods, known informally as the Kapur
Committee. It was established in 1982 to develop and recommend a series
of policy initiatives that should be taken to enhance the competitiveness



-15-
and exports of engineering products. The major finding of the Kapur
Committee, which has been ratified by the Government, is that the prin-
cipal constraint to exports of engineering products is the extensive
system of industrial controls, which prevents firms from achieving
economies of scale, blocks efficient subcontracting, and undermines the
competitiveness of Indian industry. The report recommends that these
barriers to domestic competition and growth be removed, at least for
engineering product groups with identified export growth potential. In
addition to recommending liberalization in MRTP controls and SSI protec-
tion for a set of "thrust industries", the Committee recommended a set of
specific measures to increase access to imported technology and capital
goods, make inputs available at international prices, and reduce the
anti-export biases in trade and industrial policy. The policy changes
recently announced (see below) reflect the conclusions and recommendations
of the Report and, in fact, many of the announced changes have been made
applicable to all industrial subsectors, rather than being limited to the
engineering goods subsector covered by the Report.
45.     A second Committee, established in 1984 and headed by Mr. Abid
Hussain, then Secretary of Commerce, was charged with the responsibility
of developing an overall export strategy, and the Committee's report has
now been submitted to the Government. The report's findings confirm the
thrust of the Kapur Report, recognizing that changes in industrial policy
which affect the structure and performance of Indian industry need to be
combined with a more coherent set of export incentives and increased
access to imported inputs, capital goods and technology. The
Export-Import Statement of Policy, issued in April 1985, embodies the
Government's initial actions on a number of the Committee's findings,
including the adoption of measures to increase access to capital goods at
lower duty rates, introduction of the export-import passbook system which
enables duty free import of inputs for export production, and the greater
use of fiscal incentives to encourage exports.  The report contains more
sweeping proposals relating to the development of a more coherent system
of trade, industrial and fiscal incentives to promote efficiency and
exports, and an analysis of how to translate these broader recommendations
into practice is underway.
46.     A third committee, appointed in January 1984 and chaired by
Mr. M. Narasimham, examined the principles of a possible shift in economic
policy from physical controls to financial controls and other related
issues. While the report is not expected to be finalized until late in
1985, its recommendations are expected to be of major significance in
shaping India's trade and industrial policy framework in the medium term.
47.     In the 1985/86 Budget Documents, released in late March 1985, GOI
announced a series of industrial policy reform measures which can be
broadly categorized in three areas: industrial licensing, import of
technology, and export incentives. On industrial licensing, GOI raised
the definition of companies falling under the restricted growth provision
of the MRTP Act from assets of Rs 200 million (US$17 million) to Rs 1.0
billion (US$83 million), reducing the number of firms affected by MRTP
size definition in the engineering sector from 100 to 20, with only 5 of
these being in engineering product groups with strong identified export



-16-
potential. Removal from MRTP restrictions has meant that firms can now
expand or enter any product line and take advantage of expansion provi-
sions to achieve economies of scale and thereby reduce production costs.
Subsequent to the Budget announcement, on May 22, 1985, GOI announced
further liberalization measures whereby firms manufacturing 27 major
product groups will be allowed to enter and expand regardless of size or
dominance, provided the product line is not reserved for exclusive
incremental production by SSIs. This subsequent announcement applies even
to firms with assets in excess of Rs 1 billion (US$83 million).
48.     In addition, for smaller firms, the existing protection and incen-
tives for SSIs to stay small have been diluted. The definition of small
industry has been raised from Rs 2 million (US$167,000) to Rs 3.5 million
(US$292,000) in fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, and the
definition of "ancillaries" has been increased from Rs 2.5 million
(US$208,000) to Rs 4.5 million (US$375,000) which is adequate to attain
scale economies in some product segments of engineering. In addition, the
excise tax exemptions, which were available to very small firms (with
sales not exceeding Rs 750,000 (US$63,000]), have been replaced by a
graduated phasing out of excise tax exemptions as firms grow. Full excise
tax exemption will be available for up to Rs 2.5 million (US$208,000) in
sales, and gradually declining excise tax exemptions will be available for
up to Rs 7.5 million (US$625,000) in sales. Further reductions in the
incentives for firms to stay small are under active consideration. A
reduction in the number of product lines reserved for exclusive incremen-
tal production for small industries and a further increase in size defini-
tions are anticipated by the end of 1985.
49.     Furthermore, among the 25 newly delicensed industries are the
major product groups identified for export thrust in the iCapur report:
automotive ancillaries, cycles, machine tools, hardtools, and industrial
machinery. Firms in these product groups will now be allowed to enter new
product areas and expand capacity without requiring a license-a freedom
that is widened to many more companies, given the increases in size
definitions for MRTP and SSI firms. In the case of motor vehicles and
machine tools, specifically, GOI has introduced flexibility in the use of
existing licensed capacity, so that these manufacturers are now allowed to
make whatever the market requires with their installed equipment, rather
than being constrained to make only that product mix fixed at the time the
license was issued.
50.     On the import of technology, GOI has announced new policies that
will provide for:
- the import of capital goods for several engineering
product groups, notably the automotive industry, under
Open General License, with the objective of enabling
firms to make the modernization moves necessary for
reaching international competitiveness;
- rapid approval of the import of capital goods,
technology, know how, and consultancy services to cover
amounts up to Rs 10 million equivalent (US$800,000);



-17-
- manufacturers to directly import many grades of steel so
that timing of imports comes under the control of the
manufacturer; and
- substantial streamlining uf procedures for firms hiring
foreign consultants and technicians; and
- extending the International Steel Price Reimbursement
Scheme to include alloys and special steels for exports.
Thus, all major inputs and modern technological know-how and advice for
competitively manufacturing engineering products will now be made avail-
able to manufacturers at international prices.
51.     On tariffs, GOI has reduced import duties on capital goods for
investment projects from a minimum of 65Z to levels of between OZ and 40Z.
On export incentives, GOI has introduced an Import-Export Passbook Scheme
whereby manufacturer-exporters may obtain duty-free imports of inputs and
components without requiring a firm order. Under the scheme, imports
would be registered in the passbook and any imported inputs not used in
export production would be subject to duty. This facility has the
benefits of eliminating the financing costs and delays involved in the
duty-drawback system.
Reform Initiatives - An Evaluation
52.     The measures announced to date are seen to be the first in a
series of industrial and trade policy reforms that will be initiated over
the next few years aimed at developing a more efficient and competitive
industrial structure in India. Tie recent liberalization measures on
industrial licensing, import of technology and export incentives and
procedures are expected to decrease costs and prices, improve the quality
of products available for sale and export, increase the competitiveness of
the Indian engineering goods industry domestically and internationally,
and increase the volume of exports of these products. The changes in
industrial licensing can be expected to result in increased domestic
competition, expansion and modernization of both smaLl and large firms and
the establishment of more efficient sub-contracting relationships among
firms in the manufacturing subsectors. With these firms better able to
expand and respond to market forces by achieving scale economies and
shifting their product mix, production costs are expected to be reduced,
and product exports increase.
53.     The changes in technology transfer and export incentives and
procedures will improve firms' ac_ess to imported capital goods and
inputs, at competitive prices, and will facilitate foreign technological
and consultancy arrangements. The measures will enable firms to offer
higher quality products through improved manufacturing processes, reduced
raw material costs and delivery schedules, modernized product design; they
will also enable firms to enter into foreign collaborative arrangements
for exporting Indian goods to the major international markets. On tariff
reform, as noted in para. 51 above, GOI's announcement of lower import



-18-
duties on some capital goods is an important step, but much remains to be
done. While the recent changes in industrial technology and trade prac-
tices and procedures are expected to result in significant improvements in
the competitiveness of Indian industry, GOI is aware that these are first
steas. It is examining further liberalization moves aimed at: reducing
protection of, and encourage growth and modernization of small industry;
facilitating the exit of firms that are not able to compete; streamlining
industrial and export procedures; introducing more systematic tariff
reforms; and moving to fiscal rather than physical controls.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
54.     Previous Bank involvement in industry has followed two separate
but interrelated paths: on the one hand, the Bank has lent, via general
lines of credit to DFC-type institutions, a total of US$855 million in 17
projects, to private firms engaged in all aspects of industry-lending
that required, in more recent projects, a particular focus on institu-
tional development and greater attention to project promotion, informed by
export, subsector and energy-efficient studies. Concurrently, the Bank
Group has also provided US$3.2 billion for projects involving the coal,
fertilizer, cement and refinery and petrochemicals subsectors where oppor-
tunities existed for the Bank to examine subsectoral issues, identify
opportunities for improvements and develop projects that addressed the
constraints to achieving those improvements.
55.     In the coal subsector, the Bank examined and reported on the
pricing, quality, and infrastructural constraints that adversely affected
the efficiency of coal mining and transportation. A series of
Bank-financed projects is being used as the vehicle for implementing the
corrective measures identified in that analysis. In the cement subsector,
a similar analysis and report identified the need for changes in pricing,
tariffs, and process technologies. A number of changes in pricing were
subsequently announced and a project, that is now under preparation, will
continue to focus on these issues. In petrochemicals, the Bank is working
with GOI, in parallel with a project that will construct a new, energy-
efficient, world-scale polyolefins complex, to examine pricing and tariff
regimes so that, by the time the new facility comes on stream, this
industry will be efficient and internationally competitive. In fer-
tilizers, the Bank, through a series of projects, is focusing attention on
capacity utilization, energy efficiency, ex-factory pricing formulae, and
farmer subsidies.
56.      In industrial export development and finance, the Bank's sector
work over the past three years has examined how policies and institutional
support could be geared to increase the efficiency and foreign exchange
earnings and how the Bank's assistance could be geared to support the
agenda for reform that is now being developed. By focusing on the
engineering subsector, which accounts for over 20Z of manufactured
exports, it was possible to identify changes which would impact on
manufactured exports overall and which would, simultaneously, improve
quality and lower costs and prices of engineering products, with its
concomitant affect on competitiveness. The Bank's sector report traced



-19--
disappointing export performance to policy-induced problems and examined a
series of policy reform measures that would address these constraints.
57.     The Bank's lending strategy for FY86-90 reflects a significant
shift in the size and scope of IBRD lending for industry. In support of
this new emphasis by GOI on fostering an improved policy environment
favoring industrial efficiency and increased exports, and on the recogni-
tion of the importance of the industrial sector to the balance of payments
specifically, and to the achievement of India's overall economic objec-
tives generally. During this period, industrial lending is expected to
increase as a percentage of total Bank Group operations, and Bank-financed
industrial development projects will be shaped to support GOI's ongoing
agenda for policy and institutional reform measures. The proposed project
is the first of a series of industrial lending operations designed to
complement and support the policy and institutional reform measures taken
by GOI. These lending operations would be preceded by substantial sector
work and would be designed to generate increases in industrial output,
efficiency and exports.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.     The project was appraised by missions that visited India in August
1984 and January 1985. The Staff Appraisal Report (No 5649-IN, dated
September 19, 1985) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
August/September 1985, with the Borrower and ICICI represented by
Mr. V.K. Malhotra of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Finance, as coordinator of the Indian delegation. A supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
59.     In discussing the need for reforms in the industrial sector, the
Bank has consistently stated that, where the difficult steps are taken by
the Government to achieve reforms, the Bank would support the initiatives
with lending to finance the resultant stream of costs arising oat of those
initiatives.
60.     Given the new climate for increased competitiveness and profitable
exports of manufactured goods described earlier, there is now a pressing
need for institutional and financial support for firms investing in
balancing, modernization, expansion and construction of new production
facilities in the engineering products subsector. Private investments,
amounting to about US$1 billion over the next three years, have been
identified as being subject to the influence of the newly announced
industrial and trade policies. The project would finance a portion of the
foreign exchange requirements of eligible enterprises undertaking such
investments and would, simultaneously, create the institutional measures
that would allow these enterprises to compete internationally and to avail
themselves of the necessary marketing and product development skills.
61.     In the context of the reforms announced by GOI, the objectives
of the project are to:



-20-
(a) support GOI's policy and institutional reforms aimed at increasing
competitiveness and exports of India's manufactured goods in line
with its dynamic comparative advantage, with particular emphasis
on constraints facing engineering products;
(b) help ICICI play a more active role in promoting and financing
projects that would improve efficiency and export performance of
firms manufacturing engineering and other promising export-
oriented products;
(c) reorient the commercial banks' involvement in small and medium
industry financing to give greater emphasis to modernization,
specialization, and expansion, by building programs to finance
engineering ancillaries; and
(d) strengthen institutional and financial support provided by ICICI
and the Export-Import Bank (Exim Bank) to individual companies
committed to improving productivity and export marketing.
62.     The project would consist of two loans:
(a) GOI Loan: A US$90 million IBRD loan to GOI for (i) financing the
foreign exchange costs of credits made by selected commercial
banks to engineering ancillary firms for expansion and upgrading
(US$70 million); (ii) financing a Productivity Fund in the amount
of US$10 million to finance up to 50% of the cost of consultants,
technicians and small hardware inputs required by engineering
firms and ancillaries for improving product quality and plant
productivity; and (iii) financing an Export Marketing Fund, in the
amount of US$10 million, to finance up to 50% of the costs of
eligible export development activities of firms engaged in export-
ing products identified for export thrust; and
(b) ICICI Loan: A US$160 million IBRD loan to ICICI, with Government
guarantee, to finance the foreign exchange portion of ICICI's term
loans for eligible export-oriented subprojects, of which US$100
million would be earmarked for engineering subprojects.
Since the two loans finance interrelated components of the same project,
both loans would become effective simultaneously.
GOI Loan: Financing of Engineering Ancillaries and Support for Marketing
and Productivity Initiatives
63.     To achieve the objectives outlined above (para 61), the GOI loan
would include a US$70 million component for ancillary financing. This
portion of the IBRD Loan to GOI would finance the foreign currency portion
of credits provided by participating commercial banks (PCBs) to engineer-
ing ancillary firms. Eligibility for financing would be restricted to
those firms which already supply a substantial part of their output to
larger engineering firms or that have satisfactory arrangements for such a



-21-
linkage. Preference would be given to firms which are subcontractors to
engineering firms financed by ICICI.
64.     The main features of the ancillary component are outlined in:
(i) the IBRD Loan Agreement with GOI; (ii) Subsidiary Agreements between
GOI and PCBs; and (iii) Statements of Policies and Operating Procedures of
the PCBs. The legal agreements and policy statements specify, inter-alia:
- the actions taken and planned by the PCBs to provide adequate
organization, staffing and training to perform the engineering
ancillary lending operation under this project components;
- eligible activities, lending rates, arrangements for channelling
the funds to the PCBs, procurement and disbursement requirements,
appraisal standards, and provisions for subproject review; and
- PCB quarterly reporting requirements covering commitments,
disbursements, staffing positions for this activity, and supervi-
sion and collection performance.
The action programs developed by each PCB for implementing the project
were reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
65.     This component would finance the cost of importing equipment and
inputs, and payments for import of technical know-how. IBRD-financed
amounts onlent by PCBs for eligible engineering ancillary subprojects
would not be repaid by the PCBs to GOI but would remain with the PCB as an
equity contribution by GOI to the PCB. This equity conversion feature has
been designed to provide a high level of incentive to the PCB's to comply
with the new, demanding appraisal and selection criteria required under
the project. Credits made by PCBs under this project component would be
further limited to those companies which have less than US$2 million in
fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) prior to the loan and which
meet agreed economic and financial criteria. Such credits would be
repayed to the commercial banks at a rate of 15Z with a repayment period
of 3-10 years with 1-3 years' grace. The interest rate of 15% (which is
the standard non-concessional rate for industrial term loans) would vary
only if the rate is changed by RBI for all such loans in India. GOI would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risk on these credits, since
all eligible companies would be small- to medium-size companies that would
be able to carry such risks.
66.     Export Marketing Fund (EMF) (US$10 million).  Under the proposed
project, Exim Bank would manage an IBRD-financed US$10 million Fund to
support export marketing programs undertaken by engineering enterprises.
The Fund would be used to finance up to 50% of the cost of technical and
advisory services and travel costs for the following activities: market
research, minor product adaptation, justified overseas travel by company
executives, product inspection services, training related to export
marketing, planning and startup of overseas operations, and travel to
India by potential buyers. In addition to these company-level measures,
support would be given to strengthen service supply, trade information in
small product-specific libraries, and group marketing activities. GOI



-22-
would make the US$10 million available to Exim Bank in the form of a
nonreimbursable contribution to Exim Bank and adoption by Exim's Board of
a Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures, which is satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
67.     The Productivity Fund (PF).  Under the proposed project, ICICI
would manage a US$10 million Productivity Fund financed by IBRD to support
productivity programs undertaken by engineering enterprises. Financial
assistance under the PF would cover up to 50Z of consultancy costs, tech-
nical support and supervisor training and small hardware expenditures
(individually not to exceed US$200,000 in PF funding) for acquiring new
process/design know-how; and carrying out R&D programs for adapting
products to export requirements, and removing production bottlenecks. PF
financing would be in the form of nonreimbursable development
expenditures. Adequate initial staffing of the Productivity Fund and
adoption of a Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures by ICICI and
the Steering Committee, which is satisfactory to the Bank, would be condi-
tions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
ICICI Loan: Financing of Eligible Subloans
68.     Under the propcsed project, an IBRD loan of US$160 million on
standard Bank terms and conditions would be made to ICICI, with a GOI
Guarantee, to finance the foreign exchange portion of ICICI export-
oriented subloans for balancing, modernization, expansion, and new private
sector investment projects that meet agreed eligibility criteria.
Engineering subprojects and other investment projects would need to meet
the following criteria, in addition to normal standards of financial
viability:
(a) firms would be chosen which manufacture products with strong
export potential, confirmed by ICICI's market appraisal, as well
as having attractive domestic resource costs and economic rates of
return, and which demonstrate comparative advantage;
(b) investments would be chosen that result in consistent with a
significant expansion of sales to more demanding export markets.
ICICI would establish that the quality, scale and productivity
improvements would have significant impact on enhancing the expor-
tability of a firm's products; and
(c) firms would be approved after preparation of a strategic export
plan which: (i) treats expanded exports as an important element
of overall strategy, (ii) incorporates measures to reach interna-
tional price and quality standards in the product-market segment
in which the firm intends to concentrate, and (iii) includes
appropriate marketing and technological arrangements which are
consistent with a significant expansion in exports.
Furthermore, priority would be given to firms that meet one or more of the
following criteria: (a) investments geared exclusively to expanding
exports; (b) products identified as "thrust industries"; (c) investments



-23-
resulting in substantial development of ancillaries; and (d) firms that
have the capabilities and plans for entering major Western markets.
69.     The US$60 million component of the loan to ICICI for export-
oriented enterprises in sector other than engineering (e.g. textiles,
leather products, selected agro-industries and computer software) would
help ICICI move the focus of its overall lending operations to include a
higher proportion of export-oriented enterprises in general, building upon
the promotional work already undertaken by ICICI. The loan to ICICI, with
the unconditional guarantee of GOI, would be for 20 years, with 5 years'
grace; the foreign exchange and interest rate risks would be borne by the
sub-borrowers--all of whom are large enough to bear such risks. The
onlending rate, at a margin of 2% over the standard variable rate charged
by the Bank, provides an adequate coverage of ICICI's own costs. This
interest rate (currently about 12%) is significantly less than that
charged the PCBs' clients which do not carry the exchange and interest
rate risk (see para 65 above).
Project Implementation Arrangements
70.     GOI Loan.  For the ancillary financing component, it is expected
that four banks-the State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank, and
the Punjab National Bank--would be PCBs and would take the lead in provid-
ing this financing under the project. These banks are relatively
efficient, have well-established term lending capabilities for smaller
firms, and are in a position to execute the project with relatively modest
changes in organization, staffing, and internal procedures. Each PCB
would be required, under a Financial Agreement with GOI, to comply with
agreed conditions of participation, including: (a) agreed organization,
staffing, and training to help ensure effective implementation;
(b) ratification by the PCB Board of a satisfactory Statement of Policies
and Operating Procedures governing the implementation of this component;
(c) installation of adequate procedures for appraisal, supervision, and
collections; and (d) adoption of standard reporting formats. Completion
of a Financial Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with at least two PCBs
which meet the above criteria would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
71.     Export Marketing Fund.  The EMF would be managed by a new group
within Exim Bank, staffed by the Manager-EMF and four Produ-:t Officers,
one at each regional center. Exim Bank would adopt and thereafter main-
tain organizational arrangements, including staffing, that are satisfac-
tory to the Bank. The Gperations of the EMF would be guided by the EMF
Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Commerce or his nominee,
and including high-level representation from the Ministries of Finance and
Industry, ICICI, Exim Bank, and representatives of the Association of
Indian Engineering Industries (AIEI), and the Engineering Exports
Promotion Council (EEPC). The Steering Committee would, inter alia,
(a) spprove the Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures and any
modifications thereto; (b) review the progress of the Fund, on the basis
of quarterly reports submitted by Exim; and (c) decide on proposals
involving more than US$50,000 in EMF support. GOI would delegate to Exim
Bank the power to approve smaller proposals. Execution of a Financial



-24-
Agreement between GOI and Exim Bank and adoption by Exim Bank of organiza-
tional arrangements for the EMF, satisfactory to the Bank, would be condi-
tions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
72.     Productivity Fund.  ICICI would manage the US$10 million PF under
the supervision of a Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary, Heavy
Industry or his nominee, and consisting of representatives of the
Ministries of Industry and Finance, and of ICICI, and the
Directorate-General of Technical Development (DGTD), and whose respon-
sibilities would be to: (a) approve the Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures and any modifications thereto; (b) review quarterly
reports prepared by ICICI on activities financed, end-use and impact; and
(c) approve projects which involve PF financing in excess of US$100,000.
Amounts below US$100,000 would be approved by ICICI. ICICI would estab-
lish organizational arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for managing
the PF and execute a Financial Agreement with GOI as conditions of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan.
73.     ICICI Loan.  Within ICICI, the Deputy General Manager (Operations)
would be responsible for implementing the ICICI loan and the Productivity
Fund; for liaison with the PCBs involved in financing engineering
ancillaries; and for monitoring the results of the subprojects financed
from proceeds of the loan. The division responsible for this work would
be expanded by at least four professionally qualified staff members whose
functions would be to enhance the economic analysis, export marketing and
technical expertise of the Division. A new Unit has been created to
manage the Productivity Fund. Adoption by ICICI of organizational arran-
gements satisfactory to the Bank for carrying out its responsibilities
under the project would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
74.     ICICI's financial performance has been impressive, particularly
since 1981. During the 1981-1984 period, net profits after tax (expressed
as a percentage of average net worth) averaged 23%, compared with 16% in
1980. The quality of ICICI's loan portfolio remains sound. At the end of
1984, there were 241 subprojects in arrears and the amount of principal in
arrears totaled Rs 195 million, or 1.3% of the total principal
outstanding. Collection ratios have averaged over 85% during the
1980-1984 period and the majority of ICICI's loans are secured by fixed
assets. Reserves are adequate to cover potential write-offs. With regard
to the future, ICICI's management expects its lending operations to
increase by 20% per annum, in current prices, during the period 1985-1989.
In 1984, ICICI's subproject approvals totaled Rs 5.2 billion and are
projected to reach Rs 13.0 billion by 1989. Foreign exchange loans are
expected to average 30% of its annual lending volume and ICICI will con-
tinue to rely on commercial borrowings for the majority of its foreign
exchange requirements. If the loan collection ratio remains above 80%,
ICICI's debt-service coverage ratio should remain above 1.2:1 through the
period 1985-1989. With its past performance and strong management, the
Bank judges that ICICI should not have difficulty complying with the
minimum debt service requirement of 1.1:1 under the project. ICICI's
debt:equity ratio is projected to remain well below the 12:1 limit
required under the project.



-25-
75.     Foreign Commercial Borrowing.  From January 1, 1985 through June
30, 1987, ICICI will need about US$490 million equivalent to meet its
total foreign exchange requirements. Under the project, ICICI would, by
December 31, 1988, undertake to mobilize foreign commercial borrowings
to at least match the US$160 million of IBRD funding. ICICI is expected
to continue blending commercial and IBRD funds in financing subprojects.
ICICI has established a sound reputation with international banks and can
be expected to borrow internationally at very favorable terms.
76.     Strategy Statement.  Under a previous Bank project, ICICI adopted
a Statement of Financial and Operating Strategy that set out a general
lending strategy. Under the proposed project, ICICI would amend its
Strategy Statement to reflect the expanded emphasis on export-oriented
projects (particularly on engineering products); the inclusion in its
operations of the proposed Productivity Fund; the need for coordination
with the Exim Bank and the commercial banks; and the establishment of
appropriate project monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. Receipt of this
revised statement, approved by the ICICI Board, in a form satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Project Financing Plan
77.    The project would involve total financing of approximately
US$1.0 billion, of which approximately US$410 million would be foreign
exchange costs covered by IBRD and parallel commercial borrowing. These
amounts are estimated on the basis of firm-level analysis of investment
demand in response to the recent policy changes and on the institutional
capabilities in financing subprojects that meet the agreed eligibility
criteria. Financing of the total project requirements would be as out-
lined on page (iii) of the Loan and Project Summary.
Subproject Review, Procurement, Disbursement
78.    Subproject Review.  For the credits by PCBs, the Bank would review
and approve the first five credits of each PCB and, if these first credits
are found acceptable, only those credits above a $250,000 free limit would
require prior IBRD review and approval. For ICICI subloans, as under the
previous IBRD loans, subprojects for which cumulative Bank financing does
not exceed US$6.0 million equivalent (the free limit) would not require
prior Bank approval. ICICI would provide the Bank with copies of the
export plans, product-market assessments, and an assessment of the extent
to which the subproject would improve the competitiveness of the
enterprise for all export-oriented subprojects.
79.     Procurement for goods financed under the proposed ICICI loan would
be in accordance with ICICI's standard procurement procedures which are
based on the evaluation of at least three quotations. For goods procured
by PCBs under the GOI loan, procurement would follow normal commercial
practices and, for items costing in excess of US$20,000, PCBs would
evaluate a firm's proposal based on three quotations. The Bank would
disburse against Statements of Expenditure provided by PCBs. PCBs would
retain supporting documents for periodical review by Bank staff. PCBs



-26-
would submit quarterly reports on activities and impact of the project and
project accounts would be audited annually. Full documentation would be
maintained by the PCBs and ICICI, to be available to Bank staff when
required. In accordance with normal DFC practices, eligible expenditures
incurred up to 90 days prior to the Bank's receipt of a subloan applica-
tion would be eligible for financing.
80.     Disbursements under the project would be made against 100l   of the
foreign exchange costs of Engineering Ancillary Projects with the restric-
tion that minimum and maximum reimbursement amounts would be set at
US$50,000 and US$500,000, respectively; 10OZ of the foreign exchange costs
of the Engineering Industry or Investment projects; and 50% of the cost of
eligible Export-Marketing and Productivity Fund expenditures. Both the
ICICI and Exim Bank would make payments for eligible expenditures under
the funds and seek reimbursement from the Bank. The disbursement profile
is based on historical disbursement patterns experienced by ICICI and the
PCBs for projects of similar size and complexity in India.
81.     Reporting, Accounts, and Auditing.  The accounts of the PCB, ICICI
and of the EMF and PF would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. In addition to preparing regular reports on its operations,
both ICICI and the PCBs would provide quarterly progress reports on
activities under the project, including: enterprises financed, broken
down by product groups, firm-level export plans and actual exports, and
impact of activities financed on productivity improvements and export
growth. ICICI would also prepare biannual reports in agreed formats
evaluating the impact of industrial and trade policies and the Industrial
Export Project on: institutional development, activities financed, and
competitiveness and exports of engineering projects.
Project Benefits and Risks
82.     Benefits.  The two main benefits of the policy changes introduced
recently are, firstly, that Indian manufacturers will be able to reduce
costs and upgrade the quality of their output to internationally accepted
stanidards and, second, the profitability of engineering goods sold in
international markets will be improved relative to domestic sales. This
will come about as a result of reduced duties on imported inputs, and tax
exemptions on export profits as noted earlier. Increased domestic com-
petition is both inevitable and welcome. While it is not possible to
accurately determine the incremental volume of exports generated by the
project, given reasonable assumptions of incremental capital output ratios
for engineering investments, up to US$500 million of incremental output
per year can be expected from the project. As the export incentives take
hold, a substantial portion of the incremental output would be exported.
While economies of scale will result in a reduction of employment per unit
of output, the overall expansion of capacity would result in a net
increase in employment in the subsector.
83.     The project would also have substantial non-quantifiable institu-
tional benefits. ICICI would be active in the financial support of firm
level moves to increase competitiveness and exports. The Productivity
Fund would support individual engineering firms in determining measures to



-27-
improve quality, scale, and efficiency, and provide ICICI with a strong
promotional tool and means of strengthening its own technical appraisal
capacity. The project represents the first participation by Indian com-
mercial banks in an IBRD-financed industrial development project. Their
responsibility for financing engineering ancillaries will help shift the
banks' focus away from a continued proliferation of small industries
towards a program of financing firms to grow, modernize and specialize as
ancillaries. The institutional upgrading that will inevitably result from
the project should provide new opportunities for substantial future
industrial lending through the commercial banks. GOI's decision that the
proceeds of the IBRD loan remain with participating banks as equity will
contribute to the capital base of the commercial banks, while providing a
strong incentive for the commercial banks to meet project objectives.
84.     Both the Productivity and Export Marketing funds embody the recog-
nition that improvements in efficiency and export marketing are best
undertaken at the initiative of individual firms. The funds will
encourage the exposure of Indian companies to outside markets,
competitors, and technical expertise-which is essential in achieving
international competitiveness and significant market penetration. The
cost sharing formula, combined with ICICI and Exim Bank screening and
advice, will help ensure that the activities financed will support
strategic moves to increase productivity and exports. By having two
efficient financial intermediaries administer these funds, with substan-
tial delegated powers, the normal procedural delays affecting such private
sector activities will be avoided.
85.     The sector and preparation work preceding the processing of the
proposed Industrial Export Project--and the positioning of the project to
complement the policy reforms recently taken by GOI-represent a means by
which the Bank can contribute to policy analysis and change. ICICI's role
in export and subsector development, combined with the involvement by
commercial banks and Exim Bank in the project, should represent effective
implementing arrangements for this and subsequent industrial lending
operations involving financial intermediaries.
Risks
86.     The principal risks are that GOI may not sustain the policy
initiatives taken and/or that procedural problems would undermine the
impact of these policy changes. With respect to the former, there is
every indication that the new Government has both the political will and
the institutional capabilities to make further positive changes in
industrial and trade policies-the blueprints for these changes will be
articulated in the Seventh Plan documents. The possibility exists that
GOI, if faced with heavy imports but no corresponding rise in exports,
could re-impose temporary control measures to avoid adverse effects on the
country's balance of payments. However, while there will clearly be an
adverse impact on the balance of payments as investments precede incremen-
tal output and exports, the emphasis in this project on lending only to
those enterprises that have already well-developed export marketing plans
should reduce the time lag between the investment and subsequent exports
and so contain that risk. The risk that procedural problems could under-



-28-
mine the initiatives has been minimized by the Government itself in its
choice of measures taken towards reform--it has chosen those policies that
do not require Parliamentary debate and/or approval for change--thereby
minimizing the chance of procedural delays. As with all projects, there
is a risk that the capabilities of the implementing agencies will be
inadequate to commit the funds on schedule to sub-projects that meet the
agreed eligibility criteria. Experience to date with ICICI suggests that
this is unlikely for the ICICI loan, but there has been no prior
experience with the PCBs, and close supervision in the early stage of the
project is planned.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
87.     I am satisiied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loans.
A.W. Clausen
President
September 26, 1985



ANNEX 1
T     A a L K I                                  Page  1  of 6
INnIA                 -  CIIL INDS IU   DTA mntr
INDIA                               HECNFEClE ;lOPS (SEIGHTED AVkM) t
"DST                   (cMS ReT ShTIHAT) Ib
EiuT               LOW INC11            HIDOLC t18O0
L9SOL.     1970mL  BSTtIATk         ASIA & PACIVIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
TOTAL                            32S7.6      3287.6     3287.6
AGRCUiaLTURAL                    1763.5      17EO.5     lot 1.4                   
1M  CAPITA (US)                        ..         ..        260.0             275.3                   1U01.1
EaT miueTIo  am CrizA
(KILOUJ  OF OIL F4UIVALrNT)        79.0      113.0       153.0             285.7                    5o6.a
POPES SA  VTrAL STAIT11CI
POPUIATIUN.2UD-TYEAK (TRotSAM) 434849.0   547569.0   733268.0
MRMs PomATnIO  CZ or TOTA)         18.0       19.8        24.4              22.3                     35.9
MUIATION mozCxTcnS
POPUATION IN EAX 20.00 DLL)                            994.4
STATIONACIU  PULATION ('LL)                           1700.0
PoPULATION Meima                                         1.8
POPUlATION   Sm
PER SQ. 86.                     132.3       16b.6      223.0             173.5                    3b6.9
MP  SQ. IM. ASGR. LAND          266.6      307.5       395.8             353.3                   1591.2
POPULATION AGE ST1CTURc (C)
0-14 UXS                        60.6        42.7       39.5              3t.3                     38.2
15-64 TRS                        54.4       54.1        56.5              59.4                     51.7
65 AND AOE                        6.6        3.0         3.9               4.3                      3.5
POPULATION GRl RATE (I)
TOAL                              1.6         2.3        2.2               2.0                      2.3
URBAN                             2.5        3.3         3.9               4.1                      4.1
CRUDE U1RTH PATE (P_tR 1D8)        47.7       41.5        33.9              27.5                     30.1
CWDe CAT RATE (PlR THO0S)          23.9       17.9        12.5              10.2                      9.4
GROSS EEPRtO=TION RATE              2.9        2.8         2.3               1.7                      1.9
FAMILT PLANUING
ACCRTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)         64.0     3782.0      6826.0 kc
usERS (or HAReD  mR)              ..         11.7       32.0              49.4                     56.5
O  A-D  mm
Ina OR FDOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      98.0      102.0       113.0             116.6                    124.4
PER CAPITA SOPPLT OF
CALORaES (t OF REOIIIIEHNTS)     95.0       91.0        92.0             106.3                    11b.7
PROTEI  (CRAIS PER DAY)          56.0       50.0        50.0              61.1                     60.3
Ur mIeCH MIKTAL ANFD PULSE      17.0        15.0       13.0 Id           14.4                     14.1
t11W CAGES 1-4) DEATH RE           26.3       19.7        11.0               7.3                      7.2
NlIE
LIFE SElEECr. AT KIUTE (tEWS)      4.2        47.3        54.9              60.5                     60.6
lNFbNT ICORr. RATE (PR THOUS)     165.0      139.0        93.0              69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAE EATER (CZoP)
TOTAL                             ..         17.0       41.0 Ic           44.2                     46.0
URBAN                   a          .        60.0        77.0 7            77.2                     57.6
tMRLL                             ..         6.0        31.07e            34.6                     37.1
ACCCSS TO CXCR1A DSPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                             ..         18.0        6.0 IC            7.6                     50.1
UR                                ..        85.0        27.0 7            28.8                     52.9
RuRAL                             ..          1.0        1.0 7             5.5                     44.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         4850.0     4890.0      3690.0 I         3318.0                   7751.7
POP. PER NURSIN  PERSON         10980.0 if  7420.0      5460.0 7-         4690.7                   2464.8
POP. PER HOSITAL MD
TOTAL                          2180.0      1050.0     1290.0 i          1039.2                   1112.1
URUAN                             ..         ..        370.0A            299.1                    651.4
RURAL                             ..          ..     10430.0            6028.2                   259b.9
ADfMSSIONS PER HDSPITAL BED         ..         ..          ..               52.3                     41.1
NDS_l
AVERSrE SUE OF 11OtISE-OLD
TOTAL                             5.2         5.6
URBA                              5.2        5.6
RURAL                             5.2        5.6
AVERSE Ho. OF PERSONS/ROIIS
TOTAL                             2.6         2.8
URBW                              2.6        2.8
RURAL                             2.6        2.8
PERcENTAGE OF SIU.zIXGS WTrH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBk                              ...
RURAL



ANNEX 1
TAILS  3A                                       Page  2 of  6
INDIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA Sit
INDIA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (NEICNITD AVERCES) Ia
HOST                    (HOST RECENT ESTIATE) /b
ItCCENT            LOW INCOE            HIDDLE nICONC
1960t!!    1970!!t RES   AT11_1b   ASIA  PACIFIC         ASIA & PACInC
ADJIUSTED UROLUWT RATIOS
VIINAt   TOTAL                   61.0       73.0        79.0 /            92.6                    100.7
UALE                   80.0       90.0       93.0  a           105.5                   104.4
PFEWAL                 40.0       56.0       64.0 _            79.3                     97.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                 20.0       26.0        30.0 /c           31.3                     47.8
MALE                   30.0       36.0       39.o 7f            40.6                    50.6
FUtILE                 10.0       15.0       20.0 We           21.9                     44.8
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)         2.8        1.0         ..                3.2                     15.4
PUPIL-TEACHE RATIO
P1(L4                            46.0       41.0        54.0 Ic           38.0                     30.4
SECONDAtY                        16.0       21.0         ..               17.4                     22.2
CANWTNION
PASSEE CIRS/ITHOUSAND POP           0.6        1.1         1.4 /h            0.1                     10.1
RADIO RECIVERS/ITOOSAND POP         4.9       21.5        55.8             129.8                    172.9
TV RECEIVERSITHOOSAND POP           0.0        0.0         2.9              19.8                     58.5
NESP!APER ("DATLY CJERAL
NrTfST') CIRCUATION
PER THOOSMD POPULATION            10.6       16.2        19.4 /h           25.7                     65.3
CINERA ANNUAL AITMNDAICZICAPITA     3.2        6.2        6.6                6.0                      3.4
LA Y
TOTAL LABO 1ORCZ( CIS)         185951.0   219194.0   284251.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                 30.7       32.5        31.4              33.2                     33.6
ASRIKlCOILTURE (PERCET)          74.0       74.0        71.0 Ic           69.6                     52.2
INDSTY (CERN)                    1.0       11.0        13.2 fl           15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE PERCET)
TOTAL                            42.8       40D.        36.8              41.9                     38.9
MALE                             57.0       52.4        51.7              53.6                     50.8
FEfAL                            27.3       26.9        25.3              29.1                     26.8
EoNIC DEPENDfNCYR ATo               1.1        1.1         1.1               1.0                      1.1
IXOME DIIIIOE
PERCENT OP PRIVATE  t'U
RECEvIVE Br
IICIE Sz OF HOUSSZ1ODS           26.7       26.3 1
HIC15 202 OF IUSEIIODS          51.7       48.9 7i      ..                ..                      48.0
EWES? 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           4.1        6.7 Zr      ..                ..                       6.4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS         13.6       17.2 7i      ..                ..                      15.5
-on a cs
ESTIAMAD ABSOLUT POPERTY INCOME
LVL (US PER CAPI)
UR                                ..         ..        132.0 /b          133.9
SAL                               ..         ..        114.0 7iK         111.6                    151.9
ESTn        REATM  POPERT  -C
LE!. CUSS PER CAPT)
URBAN                             ..         ..          ..                ..                     177.9
IL                                ..         ..          ..               61.7                    164.7
ESTIAMAD POP. BELOV ABSOLUT
lOVERY INCONE LEVEL (Z)
URBUA                             ..         ..         40.3 /b           43.8                     23.5
RRAL                              ..         ..         50.7 7ii          51.7                     37.8
. AVNOT AVALW
NOr APPLICABLE
N 0 T ES
/a  The group average for each indicator arm populatou-welbted aritbsetic mans. Coverage of countries
mao  the Indicators depends on availability of data and Is not unform.
/b   anloc otherwim noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year betwen 1959 anmd 1961; "Data for 1970" betwen
1969 and 1971; and data for "Moat Recent Ettst" between 1981 and 1983.
/e  1960; /d 1977; /a 1978; /f 1962; /[ 1976; /b 1979; /t 1964-65.
JUNE, t985



ANNEX 1
DEFINllTONS OF SOCAL INDICLTOtS                              rage 3 of 6
Notec Althog the data we drwn from suces mgllyjudpd thte ast authort nd idiebk it shoud aldio be noted tht they may not beintentioUy
compamblebecaue of thedek of tndadidzed deitim   and conepts ud by differentcountni In colleting de data. m data are nonethe,. usful to
decribe orders of magitude. inticate treads. and  aacteie  erain major difence between countries
The reeren  groups a*r f1) the sne country group of te subjet country and (2) a country goup with somwbht higer avere inme thn the country
grouporthesubjetuntry (exceptror'Higb IncimeOil Expwters' gmup where'Middle Income North Africa n Midde Eiat scsn becumsoitrorer
dcao-iultuntl idlniies). In the rfernce group data the averas are population wighted arithmnetk moean for each indicaer and son only wb  majority
ofdthe countries in a group ha data for that indicator. Since the coveae orcmtries among the indicators depcnds on the avaibbility ofds and is not uniform
caution mst be execisd in reating average ofone indiatr to another.  se - avergs ar only usefudl in emparing the valbnofone indica  at a dime among
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                        Crude       lae (per thuan xill-N umber of live births in die year
Total-Total surface arca comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Crku  Death Rate (per th-nsmd)-Number of deaths in the year
AgsimuraL-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures market and kitdcen gardens or to    GCesr Repruct  Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in ber normal reproductive period if she experiences
presentage-speificfertility rate usually five-yearaveragescending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market prias.8 calculated by same conversion method as World  FaJdy                     AULvU (thausands)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basts): 1933 data.                        ber ofaceeptors of birth-control devices under auspkces of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.   Fan* Plaaut-Us (percent J f-mwed ,vaseu)-Thperen-
petroleum. natural g_s and hydro-. nudear and geothermal lec-  tage of maried wnomen of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    of chid-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measud for other age
POPULAnON AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Total Popl3ation. Mid-Year (thossnds)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUlFRMON
and 1983 data.
UrbanPbpmfnm (ercemof rmf)-Rtio  f urbn tototal .deroffitiedPedahction Per Capita (1 969-71 = 1(W)-Index of per
a         1pulatiod   (peen e fnt i tos -Ratio of   an  to total  capita annual production of all food commodities. Produton
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  e,ldsaia fee an  see fo agutu~Fo  omdte
ability of data among countries; 1960.1970, and 1983 data.   eicudes nnimar  eeom itsiees (e.g asugatumne instead  of sugar)
Papdate Projetiou                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popsdation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses, oil sweds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegeabs, frits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beet, livestock, and
total population by age and sex fertility rates. mortality rates, and  Cvr.tock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights 1961-65. 1970, and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  !982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           Per Capa Swppp ofeCalrics (pfot efrqidn sceas-Comput-
Statnary population-1s one in which age- and sex-specfic mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
ality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Availab - supplics comprise dometi produc-
fertlity rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports Lkss export. and changes in stockl Net supples
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agricultur, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age strcture is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements wer
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and bealth considering environmental temperatur, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lvel.                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popsdlatin Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to  Per Capit Supply ofProtmn (gras per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is deined
achieved that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for aOl countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary populaion to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1935 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
POPabdon D-sky                                                average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Suppty. 1961. 1970 and 1982 dama.
tares) of total area 1960.1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita Poei  Supply from Aumal and Puse-Protein supply
Per sq-km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961 -65,
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Popuwan Age Structare (parreat)-Children (0-14 years). work-  CUM (ages 1-4) Death Rare (per th.wand)-Number ofdeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and rtired (65 years and over) as perentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PopuA  n Growth Rate (pereentj-toet&-Annual growth rates of   from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Population Growt Rate rperceatJt-whan--Annual growth rates    Lae Expectainry at Birth (yers)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNE 1
Page 4 of 6
at the dme of of its birth wre to stay the ame throughout its life;  P&v&wacher Ratio - prbnary, and secndr-Totl suents en-
1960.1970 and 1981 datiL                                      roled in prnary and sondary klls divided by numbers of
*%%e Mrtay Raw (per thwnud)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the coreponding levelh
before raching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
yew, 1960. 1970 and 1983 datL                                 CONSUMPTION
Acces ro So  Wrt (pret of            t     ti  Wm  idad       Praxi   Con (jer tmi jsqwlWinm)-Psuaenr  car com-
rowl-Number of people (totl, urba, and rmurl) with reaonable  piw motor crs sating  s thn eight pas; excludes  mbul-
som   to  ife water supply  (ichde treed surface waters or    ance, hearss and military vehidks.
untretd but um m ated wtr such as that from proteted          RA  Recevr (per oasw adpep5ifule.iD-All types of receivers
boreholk spriqn  and santary wdls) a percentages of their resc-  for radio broadcas to geal public per thousnd of populaton;
tive populatios. In an urba area a public fountain or s_adpos  ecudes un-licsed receiven in countries and in years when
locted not more than 200 metes from a hue may be conUdd!ed    regstrtion of radio ets wa in effect data for recent yea  may
as being within ronable ace  of that houwe In rurl  u         not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasoable auss would imply that the houewife or members of the
housdbold do not have to spend a disproponate pt of the day   TVReclvs (per uudpuhn)-TV rceves for boadcast
in fetching the family's water needs                          to genrl public per thousand populaton; excides uniensed TV
ereceivem in countrs and in years when registration of TV sets wu
Accs to Excwt Diyusa (pecu ojeumeu)ta  urban                  in clict.
md nrua-Number of people (total, urban, and nrual) served by
eacreta disposl as percentag  of their respetve p loj*w     Chaeu (pgr W%woodpopuilobn)-Sbws5 the aver-
Exceta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age crculation of 'day genal intmt newmpaper' defied a a
without treatment, of human excmta and waste-water by water-  periodical publicaon devoted primarily o recording generl news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and simlar insllationc  It is casidered to be 'daily" if it appea  at at four tameaweek
Popoliodopr p  Phyzdu-Population divided by number of prac-   Cui    Amuu Atesiuc per CpIt per Yew-Baed on the
tisingphysiaans qualified from a medical shool at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popatio per Nursing Paron-Ilpulation divided by number of     dnive-i cncmas and mobile unis.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistnt nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxffiariL                       LBUOR FORCE
1pactica  nu spes Bad  ursi   , ng a iarcs  Tlon Tol Labor Fac  (thsmads)-Economically active persons, in-
(total urban, and H msl  d-xodt by thai revspet o number of  dluding armed forces and unemployed but exduding housewives,
(total, uban, andla   pural) diidd by ther repectiv anumera   sudents, etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available bband private, general and specalzed  various countries are not comparal; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data
hospital and rehabilitation centers Hospitals are establishment
permanenty staffed by at least one phyician. Establishments prov-  Fm     perc(ap)-Fenmale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaBy custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals  force
however. indude health and medcal centers not permanently staffed  A rcutue (percemrj-Labor force in farming foresy, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwi&  etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
wbich offer in-ptient acommodation and provide a limited range  dauL
of medical facilities.                                         nduisivy (percentD-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Ad:essiu per Hosptl MM-Total number of admissions to or      factunring and elecricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
APdou Rat (perceat)-tat4mmsal.mdfuuulk-4articipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL mal. and femae labor force
Avra  S2:e of HoJ ehol (persus pe heusehd)-wed.  -ban.        as permcntages of total maie and female popuation of al ages
andrarl-A household consists ofa group of individuals who share  respective1. 1960.1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meal A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rates rcting age-sex strucatre ofthe popula, and
may not be included in the household for statistkal purposes  long time trend. A few estimates are from national soures
Average N/wber of Person per Room-aota, urba, nd rur-         Econoud Dependem:7 Radi-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellngs respecvely. Dwdlings exdude
non-permanent suctures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percetaze of Dweaps ith Electriciy-total  rban, md rral-      Pecenage of Total Dipoabl lcew (bot in cask ad kinu)-
Conventional dwelings with electricity in living quarts as pencen-  Accuing to percentile groups of households rankced by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Aduted ErwoUinew Raios                                        The folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poveny
lr'iary sholw - total mal and femae-Gross total, male and     levels and should be interpreted with considrabk caution.
fkenlh enroUcat of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Estited A blte Poverty  cxime Levde USSM per capita)-arbau
respective primary swhoo-age popuations. While many counties  and rnul-Absolute poverty income level is that income levd
consder primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and dumtion of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
arc rflected in the ratios given. For some countris with universal  Estmat  Relatie Povertrynce Lev  USS per c_pita)-arban
education gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ,ad aral-Rural relative poverty income leel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prnmary-school  average per capita peronal income of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustnent for higher cost of
Secoedan school - total. male and femal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas
secondary education rqures at kast four years of approved pin-  E    fed Populie  Bcbw Absoute Pbverty luceme Lewd (per-
mary insruction: provides generL vocational, or teacher training  wrj-orhm and rural- Pccut of population (urban and rural
instutions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally cxcluded.
V,xzl Eirolbned (percent of vcJndwy)-Vocational institu-                Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include tehnicaL industriaL or other progams which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



gCap 5 of 6
mllPU CIiP Tl le41I260 DT
coSS Noesc PICT KM 1983/84 yi                                             ANNAL UMT aOF          . CZ, Cont  Pries) 
35151369/j  60/61-6/65  65/86-69/70  70171-74/75  75176-79/80  801/1-32/83
US$ via.    S
CDP at Market Prices            189.81    100.0                   3.7         3.6          3.7        2.9          4.1         5.1
Cross Domestic Iuaoteet          45.91      24.0
Gross Nstionel Saviyg            43.17      22.7
Curret Account Deleu            -2.17      -1.5
*uT99T. LABOR FORCE AND PRDUCTIVITY KM 1931
Vdaue added (at factor cat)      LOabr Fres  /   V..  er  r
1115 KU.               S         _M1.       1             ioNto    Avereao
Ariculture                       52.5                 35.9        172.7    70.6    304         51
Kudutary                         34.5                 23.6         31.6    12.9   1092       113
Serwice                          59.2                 40.5         40.3    16.5   149         246
Total/Averag                    146.2                 100.0       244.6   100.0   -98         1o
0    bTErn     a                                                          ,
ceneral Govrit d1                                Cetra Govron
Rs. bn.               of  W                  no. un.          - of CDP
19318       1913/14  1979 l10196164          19i3J86    lM3/U       199/80-1963(84
Current Receit                  378.34         19.3          19.5            201.67        10.3           10.3
Current Expenditures            397.12         20.3          19.4            225.42        11.5           10.9
Curret Surplusloefielt          -13.38         -1.0           0.1            -23.75        -1.2           -0.6
Capital    adir                 149.66          7.7           6.0            114.12         5.8            5.8
IxtereId Asala= t     ) d/       19.16          1.0           1.1
1IWT. CID   -  PRICES           19707   197I/76  197817  1979/O0  "D0/Il 1911/52  19!1283 1963/84 Jana 194 J               1985
CRe uliL*  outatIUing: at end of peri1)
_AIy ad Qugl Ioby               109.8    224.8   60.1   *72.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   S60.9           835.1        993.9
aNok Credit to Covernc (act)   54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.8   407.7            403.1        483.9
Dak Credit to Ca_rcia  Sor   64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   366.4   434.6   517.1   612.7              575.5        685.0
(Percentae_ or Inde  er                           A*I-jan 8318?.   April-inn 84/85
*ony end Queai Mone as a S
of CDG                         27.3      30.3    41.1    44.1    43.7    4Z.5    44.5    44.0
Uholgeal Pric  index
(197071 - 100)                100.0    173.0   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4   238.6   315.2          313.6           336.7
Anna PeFrcentag  chag_ Is:
Uholeela Price                    7.7      -1.1     -       17.1    18.2      9.4      2.6      9.2       9.2             7.4
II_k Credit to Gove_nt (net)   15.0        22.7    16.0    25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3          16.9 af         23.- h
Biok Credit to Crciel Sector  19.4         22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    18.7          13A             15.6 y
Al   o per cmpita GIW eecianta Is at ihe_t p-ICaa, ubin Ilo   Dank Ails  itdlg  baag perid 1981-S3.
Ail other cmrdme to dallwr  In tiS tahle ar at the averag  exchang rate peawling drn  the perod               d.
bi Quick lEm   ,e. Contral Statistical Ougenintis
4   Compared frm tnd Lin  of GNP at factor C-ot earla. inclqding m  observatlos befode firat yer and am obeerwatio  after
let yar  of lSted period.
d/ world Da&k  atimtes of net disbent of concaooe aid and I3RD.
7 sfe<r betwee Centre mad ftates hav bee netted out.
/ AU 'na  d adwances to third prtet  hboe ben netted out.
Prcntage ch            from end-March 1983 to and-Jm.8&4.
Percenta  che_g frm and-March 1984 to andn.IS5.
Total Labor Foce ad percentage breakdown frm 1981 Common. Excludes data fer Assem.



1I" 6 a 6
IAIAJCE OF PAIIUNT3      1961/62        1962/61    1963184    1964185   l l04        W0RTS (A933G4 190I3i-19336) g
CUSS ttli.                                                                                                       USS Nln.S
xorts of goods                         .519      .290       8.355      8,724      Ernglneeag Coods                1115     13
Ixports of ods           g          -5.301    -14.290     -14.040    -14.501       T_a                             4*9      6
Trade Duane.                        - 6.782   - 6.000    - S.65       - 5.7M       C_e                            1009     12
NPS (wt)                              1.002       935         941      1.096       Clothin                         683      3
Leathar ed lather Products    343        4
Reawurc Balance                     - 5.730   - 5.065    - 4.737    - 4.676        Jute Neuacturem                 269      3
Izm ore                        480       5
Intoreet 1cum (nt) k                    350   -  302    -  64        -  765        Cotton Textilg                  316      4
Net Tranfersy                         2.317     2.308       2,830      2.930       Sa                              104      1
Otbhr                          3704     44
Dalen  an Currnt Acnt               - 3.113   - 2."63    - 2.521      - 2.533
DOrect  wowt                             10        65          62         61
Total                          U417    100
Offical Lowns A Gralte (net)          1.681     1.901       1.961      1.944                                      -       -
GroasDinbur.mts                       2.269     2.513       2.578      2,533       Mf3 WL. DVW. HAM  31. 1984
Amrtzatien                             Su        612         617        641
05$ hilling.
Priva  orroula  (nAt)                   338       366         523        U4s
Oueadn   ndDaued21.5
N1n-Reelidnt Depouit.                   260       573         903        600       Undimburad                              10.4
Tremectiom.ith 11W (net)               690     1.960       1.295         70       Outstanding includiWg Odisaurs.d         31.9
All otlhe Item                      - 2,264   - 1.522    - 1.347       r- 683
Tnee in Re* as11 -)                   2.39B   -  501    -  332         -303       DMT SERVICE RTI FOR 1983184 a, ny        13.6 pr cet
CMOs Reman (ed year) p/               4.461     4.965       5.847       6,150
Net Neserva. (ed yawr) E              3.497     2.069      12697        2.250
Fuel                                                        lUND/IDk LUIDC, MAC. 31. 1965 11
po   (Petol-a       /                 5.553     4.614       2.963      3.026                                            r        __
of uhch: Crude                      3,921      3.139      2.133       1,013
Produrct                  1.632      1.475 300              2.0W0      Ostading ad Diabure                 2.156   8,902
ti.herae                           4.326   3.748
Ourstanding Inluding A flabueed    6,484  12,650
Jos. 196 to     19d-Deber11 :I   0ISS.00 - an 7.50
R 2.00 - 1#0.13333
::d-Decunber 1971 to ad-Jam  1972:  08.o00 - in 7.27927
o LW00 - I3S0.137376
After end-Jm- 1972              :  Floatg Rate
Spot Rate ed-Nach 1984          :  0s8.00 - es 10.711.
Rs 1.00 - 0360.0933
-pot Rate 1Ud-r  195                08: 1.00 - as 12.3457
an LOO - 080.0810
-  Estimated
y/ Fgur   i cv eluatmt Icme (at). now                             are Interest en forpigm lese* and charge.peid to w,
am amisr .e.iita Is interest earned en areigu aneta.
1/ FSWM give icde u    a' craittewce. but excle  official gt assistance uhich Is Includd vithn officil 1.
- A      . =d n_m-xeeidnt depaita eRich are ahun aeperately.  -
Mt ineluda nt  se of 1fW cr,edt.
gi      tDimaie  ad lnternt p        a  feeiw lan. a a parceatag  of totel cC   recpt.
.1 Inlude ezcb       ra   adj_t _ a tO ths valuatio  of reserve ad financing of Imb      es In   e trade.
pl  RnCluding Or d.
~/Not of paetoLoam export.



AINER II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of Narch 31, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank        IDA 1,      Undisbursed l
52 Loans/                                            2,379.0         -
96 Credits fully disbursed                               -       5,589.2            -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                      -          30.0           6.06
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development        -          18.0           0.01
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation          145.0         -            14.17
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                    25.0         -             3.66
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development            -          30.0           8.05
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development            -          20.0           1.32
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -          12.0          6.34
1394-IN    1977     Gujarst Fisheries                   14.0         -             1.90
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage             -         107.0          32.50
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research             -            8.0          4.85
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0         -             1.37
1549-IN    1978     Third KorbaTroabay Thermal Power        105.0         -             0.02
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Jrrigation                 -         117.6          30.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Th-ermal Power                 -         200.0          23.31
806-IN    1978     Ja ---Kasbmir Horticulture           -          14.0           9.12
815-IN    1978    n-&hra Pradesh Fisheries              -          17.5           7.91
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                    -          16.0           2.29
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII             120.0         -             7.21
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                       -         150.0          27.26
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II               -         196.0         119.03
844-IN    1979     Railway Nodernization
& Maintenance                     -          JP4'.0        14.50
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -          38.0           3.70
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research       -          27.0          11.99
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -           25.0           0.40
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                       -           30.0          0.18
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             -         20M.0           0.06
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power            50.0         -            45.98
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -         12V.0          26.82
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply             -          48.0           0.45
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -         175.0           3.25
954-IN    1980     Naharashtra Irrigation II            -         210.0          25.86
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Comunity Forestry            -          37.0           2.70
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -          20.0          14.41
981-IN    1980     Population II                        -          46.0          23.27
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -          32.0          16.81
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                -         175.0          84.89
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                            -          22.0          14.74
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                 -         300.0         124.04



U NII
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No *     Aroval- -      Purnose                         Bank        IDA jJ      Undisbursed  /
1028-IN   1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension        -           10.0           6.28
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -           56.0          15.71
1034-ID    1780     Karnataka Sericulture                -           54.0          24.87
1046-lN   1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          44.81
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                    99.2         -             3.96
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal sover                -          225.0          75.02
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0          -            25.00
1897-IR    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -           18.40
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -           35.0           9.75
1078-IN   1981      Mahanadi Barrages                    -           83.0         35.99
1082-IN    1981     Madras urban Development II          -           42.0          19.31
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation               -          140.0          74.08
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -          314.0          71.66
1116-ID    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -           54.0         33.13
1125-IN    1981 U    azira Fertilizer Project            -          399.1          77.24
1135-IN    1981     Naharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -           23.0           8.96
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -           28.0          14.27
1138-Il    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -           37.0         23.98
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0          62.87
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II       -          400.0        243.01
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -          220.0         140.86
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -             8.60
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -           29.0          18.21
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -           25.0          13.31
2051-lN    1982     ICICI XIV                           150.0         -           44.73
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Themal Power II         300.0          -           264.07
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.   -              6.0          4.36
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0          -            76.58
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification -'I          304.5          -           248.98
i269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigatio-n                  -           60.0         25.13
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                  20.3          -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -           72.0          57.11
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Raryana Social Forestry            -          33.0          22.45
1288-IN    1983     Chaubal Madhya Pradesh               -            -
Irrigation II                      -          31.0          17.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -          127.0         101.25
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.'         -           121.55
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -         200.0         167.25
2210-IN    1983     Railways Nodernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -           197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development       139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -          150.0        100.78
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II             -          101.0          87.73
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          -          170.0         142.99
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Rydro Power         156.4         -           156.01



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA I1     Undisbursed  /
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -          147.0        128.60
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -           32.0         24.45
2308-IN    1963     Maharashtra Water Utilization       22.7          -           22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission         250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management      46.2          -           45.82
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                24.1          -           23.80
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -          105.0         76.24
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -           31.0         29.14
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -           70.0         65.63
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry            -           27.0         21.93
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                   250.0          -          247.92
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0          -          150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5          -          241.90
2415-IN    1984     Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6          -          200.18
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation               -          125.0        116.47
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation            -          172.0        145.22
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*          280.7          -          280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power*          300.8          -          300.80
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*      157.4          -          157.40
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*        -          129.8        129.80
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Power*      135.4          -          135.40
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -           36.5         34.99
SF-12-IN   1984     TaLil Nadu Water Supply                          36.5         34.99
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
SE-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corpo:zcion III        -         220.0         205.99
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry               -           31.8         30.33
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I*         -           39.1         39.10
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development*            -          138.0        138.00
Total                                   6,818.3    12,934.1
of which has been repaid              1.269.9       194.6
Total now outstanding                   5,548.4    12,739.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /        5,548.4    12,739.5
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,575.90    3,333.48
AJ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations-and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2J Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA, Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1985.
3~/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Comuanv                     Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam SillimAnite Ltd.                1.4        -        1.4
1961            [.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Nahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0       1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -       15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.   38.0          -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited           15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8        -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.5        -       15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.1        -        8.1
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       3.5        -       3.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                          8.9       0.8      9.7
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      20.5        -      20.5
1985            Modi Cement                          12.0        -       12.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        251.9      12.9    264.8
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           139.1       6.2    145.3
Nov Held                   112.8        6.7    119.5
Undisbursed                 72.8        0.8     73.6
.,~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ :-   :. . .,   ..                  



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT - ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:         Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
One year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India, Limited, and GOI Working Group, with assistance
from IBRD.
Cc) Date of first presentation to the Bank Group
August 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1984
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations
September 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
January 1986.
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
The following events are specified as additional conditions of effective-
ness of the proposed loans:
(a) GOI would have signed a Financial Agreement, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, with at least two of the PCBs
(para 70);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Statements of Policy and Operating Procedures, satis-
factory to the Bank, have been adopted by the Boards
of Ezim Bank and ICICI and the respective Steering
Committees (paras 66 and 67);
(c) Exim Bank and ICICI would have adopted satisfactory
organizational agreements for operating the EMF and
PF, respectively, and signed Financial Agreements with
the Borrower (paras 71 and 72);
(d)  cross-effectiveness of ICICI and GOI Loan Agreements,
respectively, (para 73); and
(e) acceptance by the Bank of a Revised Financial and
Operational Strategy, approved by the ICICI Board, and
adoption of satisfactory organizational arrangements
tparas 76 and 73).






