Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 12612
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT - ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
(LOANS 2629-IN AND 2630-IN)
DECEMBER 17, 1993
is iI C R  GRgPH'-T F1 i I L,
Report No          i26'-
Tvype: F'C
Country Operations, Industry & Finance Division
Country Department II
South Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used b recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Annual Average)
Currency Unit   Indian Rupees (Rs.)
1986          $1.00   Rs. 12.6         Official Rate
1987          $1.00   Rs. 13.0                "
1988          $1.00   Rs. 13.9
1989          $J.00   Rs. 16.2                i
1990          $1.00   Rs. 17.5                "
1991          $1.00   Rs. 22.7                "
1992          $1.00   Rs. 26.0                "
1992          $1.00 = Rs. 30.4         Market Rate
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AIEI:  Association of Indian Engineering Industries
BOB:   Bank of Baroda
DeCTA: Developing Countries Trade Agency
EMF:   Export Marketing Fund
ERR:   Economic Rate of Return
EXIM:  The Export Import Bank of India
FRR:   Financial Rate of Return
GOI:   Government of India
ICICI: Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd.
IEP:   Industrial Export Project - Engineering Products
PCB:   Participating Commercial Bank
PCR:   Project Completion Report
PF:    Productivity Fund
PNB:   Punjab National Bank
RBI:   Reserve Bank of India
SB}:   State Bank of India



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washlngton, D.C. 20433
USA
Office of Orectreneral
Oper. ons Evaluaion
December 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECr:        Project Completion Report on India - Industrial Export
Prolect, EXn&eering Produts (Loans 2629 and 2630-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India - Industrial Export Project,
Engineering Products (Loans 2629 and 2630-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part H
was prepared by the Borrowers.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. It provides a clear account of the experience with
a complex project. Although the project became effective by mid-1986 and two intermediary financial
insttutions began committing fnds shortly thereafter, it took others some time to put in place
procedures and staff to utilize the loan. The unfamiliarity of the sub-borrowers with the Bank's
currency pool and their reluctance to accept the exchange risk eventually convinced the Government of
India to take over this risk Once this decision was made and the interest rates were subsequently
realigned with the market rates, both commitments and disbursements improved. The rate of
commitment fauther improved by widening the use of fimds to cover all export projects, rather than
focussing primarily on engineering products. When the loan closed on June 30, 1992, some $5.2
million of Loan 2630-N was undisbursed and hence cancelled.
The project was followed by two subsequent loans for Export Development In 1989
(Loans 3058 and 3059-IN). It led to substantial investment in the export industries of India. It also
helped two of the participating banks to derive valuable experience in promoting export markeedng and
productivity enhancing activities. The outcome is rated as satisfactory and the project bas had partal
institutional impact. Given the current economic environment in India, sustainability is rated as likely.
An audit is planned in FY95.
Attachment
I  doum   ha rcted ltution ad may b used by recip only thyin  perforance of their of ficidl duis. It contt 
y not odemws be disclosed wihou Wodd aOk authotizaon.



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
PROJECTtCOMPLET9IO    PRT
INDIA
XIDSTRIAL EXPORT PRojTzs - EaIEeN  PmODUm
(LOANS 2629-IN and 2630-IN)
Table of Contents
Paa2o.
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... .
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  ...  ..iii
PTIs  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANIK' S PERSPECT.IVE          . ..... .  1
I.   Proiect Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II.   Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .                 1. . 
Link with Industrial and Trade Policy Reform      . . . . . . . . . .1
_II.  Proiect Obiectives and Description  . . . . .      . . .      ........ . .    2
Project Objectives  ... .  .     . . . . .  . . . .  .  .  .  . *... .    . 2
Project Description    ..                        . . . . . o . . .   2
IV.  Proiect Desian and Organization     ..      ...  . . . . . . . . 2
The Participating Commercial Bank Sub-Loan Component  . . . . . . . . 2
The ICICI Sub-Loan Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . ... 2
The Export Marketing Fund .. . . . . . . . . . .          .  . . . .  3
The Productivity Fund  . . . . . . . . . .    3.     . ...            3
V.  Proiect Imnlementation              ..9.   ....3
Effectiveness and Start Up  . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Implementation                         *.        . . . . . . . 
Pisbursements .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   4
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     .     5
Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
VI.   Proiect Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Impact on Overall Export Performance  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Sub-Loan Performance  . . . .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Productivity and Export Marketing Funds Performance . . . . . . . . . 6
VII. Proiect Sustainabilitv    ...      . . . .  . . . .. .                 7
This document has a restricted distrtbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pae no
VIII. Performance of the Bank and Imolementing agencieg . . . . . . . . . . 8
World Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Implementing Agencies Performance . . . . .*..  . . . . . . . . . 8
IX.  Lessons From the Proiect  . ....................  .   8
PARTIBfl  PROJECT REVIXW PROM BORROWER'S PERSPBCTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Comments from ICICI .......... . . . . . . . . 10
Comments from the Export Import Bank of India . . . . . . . . . 12
Comments from Bank of Baroda ........ . ... ..... 15
Comments from Punjab National Bank  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Comments from Canara Bank . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .    18
PART XII: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . ... . . . . . . . . 21
Tables
I  Related Bank Loans . . . . . . . . .... ..  . . . . .       22
2A. Planned Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
25. Actual Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . 23
3. Sub-loan Lending Terms   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
4. Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
5. Loan Commitments   . . . . .... . ... . . . . . . . . . . . 26
6. Loan .isbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . ... . . . . . 27
7. Selected Indicators of India's Export Achievement  . . . . . . . 28
8. Selected Indicators of Sub-loan Achievement  . . . . . . . . . . 29
9A. Selected Indications of WM and PF Achievements  . . . . . . . . 30
95. Activities Funded By Grant Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
1OA. Performance of Implementing Agencies - 1987  . . . . . . . . . . 31
108. Performance of Implementing Agencies - 1992  . . . . . . . . . . 31
11. Use of Bank Resources  . .  .. . . .     . . .     . . . . .32
12. Mission Data   . . . . . . 3 . . .     . . .      . .    . . . 33
13. Status of Compliance with Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
14. List of ICICI Sub-loans  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . 35
15. List of Commercial Bank Sub-loans  . . . . . . . .  .     . . . * .38
16. List of EXIM PM Grants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
17. List of ICCI PF Grants  .      ....         . . . . . . . . . . 48



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT - ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
(LOANS 2629-IN and 2630-IN)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Export
Project - Engineering Products in India for which Loan 2629-IN in the amount of
US$90 million and Loan 2630-IN in the amount of US$160 million were approved on
January 26, 19P6. Both loans closed on June 30, 1992, two and a half years later
than originally envisaged. US$90 million was disbursed from Loan 2629-IN and
US$154.8 million was disbursed from Loan 2630-IN. The balance of US$5.2 million
of Loan 2630-1N was canceled.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III) was
prepared by the Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division of Country
Department II, South Asia. Part II contains separate written comments on the
project submitted by five of the six implementing agencies. In some cases, the
implementing agencies submitted longer reports and more detailed statistics which
are available for review in the project file.
This PCR was prepared during FY93 and is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence
between the World Bank and the Implementing Agencies and internal World Bank
memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLEION RPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT -- ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
(LOINS 2629-ZN and 2630-IN)
EVALUATION SRY
Obiectives
1.          The main objectives of the project were to support trade policy
reform and boost Indian exports by: (a) increasing the availability of term
export finance, particularly in the engineering sector; and (b) catalyzing
increased spending by companies on export promotional activities (para. 3.1).
The project built on a foundation of 14 previous loans to the Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) in providing term finance for
industrial projects.   However,  it differed from past loans  in targeting
engineering and export projects, in providing matching grant support for pre-
project export marketing and productivity activities, and in using multiple
financial institutions (para. 2.2).
2.          To achieve its objectives the project was designed to provide: (a)
$160 million to ICICI to be relent to industrial companies for export projects
primarily in the engineering field; (b) $70 million to four participating
commercial banks (PCBs) to be relent to ancillary engineering companies for
export or import substitution projects; (c) $10 million to be extended as
matching grants by the Export Import Bank of India (EXIM) to engineering
companies for marketing activities through the Export Marketing Fund (EMF); and
(d) $10 million to be extended as matching grants by ICICI to engineering
companies for productivity improvements through the Productivity Fund (PF) (para.
3.2).
Imnlementation Exnerience
3.          The loan was approved on January 21, 1985 and became effective on
June 23 1986.  ICICI and Bank of Baroda began to commit sub-loans shortly
thereafter, in August of 1986. EXIM and Canara Bank began to commit funds in the
first half of 1987 and the other PCBs in 1988. This delay was largely due to the
need for the participating institutions to put into place appropriate procedures
and staff (para. 5.1). An additional cause for delay in committing marketing and
productivity grants was that many eligible activities (such as hiring overseas
consultants) required governmental approval. To address this, in mid-1987 the
Government of India (GOI) granted blanket government permits for approved
activities under the EMF and PF programs (para. 5.2).
4.          Loan funds were committed slowly through mid-1988 because sub-loan
interest rates were proving unattractive to borrowing companies. In the case of
ICICI, sub-loans were denominated in the Bank's currency pool which was not well
understood by borrowing companies. To make these funds more attractive, in
February 1988 the GOI agreed to take the exchange rate risk and for ICICI sub-
loans to be denominated in Rupees at 14W. Interest rates on commercial sub-
loans, initially set at 15%, were adjusted in November 1988 to a similar level
(para. 5.3). The rate of commitments was further improved by widening the use
of funds to cover all export projects, rather than focusing primarily on
engineering projects (para. 5.4). These changes were successful and by 1990 most
of the funds had been committed. The loans closed on June 30, 1992 and, in
accordance with Bank policy, disbursements were permitted until October 1992.



- iv -
Results
S.          The project funded 439 sub-loans amounting to $229 million and 359
grants under the PF and EMP amounting to $16 million.  The average size of ICICI
loans was about $1,000,000, of the PCB loans was about $250,000, and of the EMF
and PF grants was about $50,000.
6.          Overall, the loan seems to have helped promote export growth by
enabling exporters to inport capital goods and make promotional investments
during an economic period in which the availability of foreign exchange was
constrained. Manufactured exoorts rose by about 10% in real terms per annum
during tne covered five year period, greater than both overall export performance
during the covered period and manufacturing export performance in the previous
five years (para. 6.1).
7.          The financial performance of sub-loans and grants appears to be
strong. Average financial rates of return on sub-loans among the implementing
agencies ranged from 20t to 40% and the number of cases of long term arrears or
reschedulings was not excessive (para. 6.3). As regards EMP and PF grants,
assisted companies achieved incremental exports over five years of, respectively,
60 times and 37 times the amount of the grant. lhis compares favorably to a
minimum target of 10 times established in the follow-up project (para. 6.5). Of
course, these figures need to be interpreted with caution since country and
company export performance can only in part be attributable to Bank assistance.
8.          The performance of the project goes beyond quantitative calculations.
By helping six financial institutions to increase their export focus and by
helping about 500 companies develop export strategies through either grants or
sub-loans, the project was instrumental in helping to overcome India's supply-
driven export orientation and in encouraging companies and financial institutions
to focus instead on improving production efficiency and better meeting the needs
of overseas customers.   This change in thinking is likely to be of critical
importance to the long term c.-npetitiveness of Indian companies (para. 6.7).
Sustainability
9.          Up until recently, both grant and sub-loan activities financed under
the Industrial Export Prcject were being sustained through a follow-up project -
the Export Development Project (Loans 3058-IN and 3059-IN) - approved in 1989.
Due to recent reforms which included making the Rupee partially convertible, part
of the sub-loan component under Loan 3059-IN was effectively stalled as sub-
borrowers found the on-lending arrangements unattractive.   In response, the
affected part of the sub-loan component is being cancelled. In its stead, th.e
Bank and the Government are considering a follow-up project that would make use
of the single currency option recently approved by the Board for loans meeting
certain criteria. A single currency option loan could be made more attractive
to sub-borrowers in its on-lending arrangements and at the same time not require
the Government to shoulder exchange risk.
10.         Given the on-going reform program, the demand for export finance is
likely to grow.   ICICI and EXIM are considered to be generally well-run
institutions that are likely to capitalize on their experience under this loan
and maintain a strong ability to make term sub-loans in support of export
projects (para. 7.2).      Over the past few years, the commercial banks have
significantly increased their short term export finance as well as their term
lending, including for export projects. Nevertheless, in order to enhance their
capability to respond to the emerging credit needs of exporters, both financial
and institutional restructuring of commercial banks will be required. The Bank
is currently discussing these issues with GOI within the context of a proposed
financial sector adjustment operation (para. 7.3). The sustainability of the
technical assistance component to exporters without further Bank assistance is



v 
limited. ICICI has obtained a small amount of additional funds from the British
Agency DeCTA and EXIM has initiated a program that supports export promotional
activities  with  Rupee  based  funds.    Ultimately,  however,  to  ensure
sustainability, it would be necessary to shift from grant-based support to
instruments which provide for the recycling of funds.
Findinqs and Lessons Learned
11.         A number of lessons can be learned from this project, some of which
have been incorporated into the follow-up Export Development Project.  These
lessons (para. 9.1) include:
(i)   sectoral allocations in financial intermediation lending should be
left to the market when possible. The initial allocation in the
project for engineering goods was eased because, while engineering
exports did perform well, many other non-traditional, chemical and
computer software exports performed as well or better;
(ii)   on-lending arrangements in financial intermediation lending should
be easily understood by sub-borrowers, market based, and easily
adjustable. The initial interest rates on ICICI sub-loans were set
using the Bank's currency pool but this proved unattractive to sub-
borrc-ers who were not familiar with it. The initial interest rates
on c' - aercial bank sub-loans was a Rupee rate but it was too high
and * I to be reduced; and
(iii)   there should be more coordination across financial instruments
provided for under the same project. While it was anticipated that
thc use of loan and grant funds in supporting the same company would
be coordinated, in fact they were approved independently by
different implementing institutions, resulting in both duplication
of effort and a weakening of an unified export strategy.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT PROJECT -- ENQINERRING PRODUCTS
(LOANS 2629-IN and 2630-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name          Industrial Export Project -- Engineering Products
Loan No.  :  2629-IN and 2630-IN
RVP Unit  :  South Asia
Country   :  India
Sector    :  Industry
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.1         The Bank's lending to industry in India has traditionally been
dominated by general lines of credit to a few large development banks. From 1955
to 1985 the Bank financed 14 consecutive loans totalling over $1 billion to
support Indian industry through the Industrial Credit and znvestment Corporation
of India (ICICI). The "Industrial Export Project - Engineering Productsit (IEP)
was, in part, a continuation of these loans.
2.2         At the same time, it differed from past loans in three important
respects. First, in recognition of ICICI's ability to raise funds on its own,
another general line of credit was not considered necessary. Rather, the main
constraint in the financial sector was the allocation of credit, given the high
set-asides for "priority" sectors and the rigid system of interest rates. Thus,
the project targeted funds on engineering projects, in order to assure adequate
funding for a sector considered to have a high level of export potential.
Second, given the history of protection in India and the lack of exposure of
Indian firms to international competition, it provided direct matching grant
support, in addition to loan funds, to help catalyze export promotional
investment by individual firms.  Third, it reflected a shift in Bank policy
towards using multiple financial institutions, for the first time including four
participating commercial banks (PCBs) and the Indian Export-Import Bank (EXIM)
as well as ICICI as implementing agencies. By using commercial banks, the Bank
hoped to widen the expertise on exports in the financial sector and reach a wider
nll-.er of downstream small and medium sized companies, including in particular
ancillary companies.
2.3         Link With Industrial and Trade Policy Reform:   The project's
targeting of engineering products as having export potential grew out of three
years of trade sector work, culminating in a paper on nLight Industrial Export
Development and Finance" completed in 1983. Consistent with this sector work,
the Government of India undertook a series of industrial and trade policy reforms
in 1984 and 1985 including easing industrial license requirements, reducing
tariffs on capital goods imports, and an exchange rate depreciation of about 25W.
These reforms provided the foundation for the project by improving the potential
international competitiveness of Indian industry. While the project did not
directly containi policy conditionality, it was designed to support these reforms
by ensuring that export projects, particularly in the engineering sector, had
adequate financing in order to take full advantage of the policy changes.



III. PROJECT OB;RCTIVES AND DN8CRIPTION
3.1         Proiect oblectives:   The main 3bjectives of the project were to
support trade policy reforms and boost Indian exports by: (a) increasing the
availability of term credit provided to companies with export potential, or
companies producing efficient import substitutes with important linkages to
exports; and (b) catalyzing increased investment and thinking by private
companies on pre-project promotional activities in the areas of export marketing
and production.   Because it was felt that Indian engineering products had a
comparative advantage for competing in the international marke;.?lace, a large
part of the loan was initially targeted to this sector.
3.2         Prolect DescriPtion:  The project comprised two loans, one to the
Government of India and one to ICICI. The loan to the Government of India, Loan
2629-IN, was divided into three components: (a) US$70 milli - to be passed on to
four government-owned participating commercial banks (PCBs) for financing term
sub-loans to private ancillary engineering firms; (b) US$10 million to be
provided as matching grants by EXIM to engineering companies for export marketing
activities; and (c) US$10 million to be provided as matching grants by ICICI to
engineering companies for productivity improvements necessary to compete
internationally.   Loan 2630-IN provided US$160 million directly to ICICI,
guaranteed by the Government _f India, for financing term sub-loans for export-
oriented projects, of which $100 million was restricted for engineering projects.
The above Bank funding, totaling $250 million, was expected to catalyze an
additional $750 million, thereby enabling total project costs of $1 billion to
be funded.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1         The project, as described above, had four components: (a) sub-loans
administered by four participating commercial banks; (b) sub-loans administered
by ICTCI; (c) the Export Marketing Fund (EMF) administered by EXIM; and (d) the
Productivity Fund (PF) administered by ICICI. The design of each component is
discussed below:
4.2         The Participatincq Commercial Bank Sub-Lcan Comoonent: This component
was financed under Loan 2629-IN to the GOI. Under this component, the commercial
banks extended sub-loans to eligible companies, which were refinanced by the GOI
in the form of equity out of the proceeds of the Bank loan. In order to target
ancillary firms, the maximum commercial bank sub-loans was set at $500,000 and
the maximum size of supported companies was set at $2 million in fixed assets.
Repayment was denominated in Rupees and the rate of interest on the sub-loans was
initially set at 15%, the non-subsidized commercial bank term rate existing at
the tirme of loan negotiations. This was reduced subsequently to 14* for medium
sized companies and 13.5% for small companies.  In order to be eligible for
financing, the borrowing company had to finance 20% of the project internally,
have a debt to equity ratio of not greater than 3:1, and have net revenues of at
least 1.5 times total debt service.
4.3         The ICICI Sub-Loan Comionent: This component was financed under Loan
2630-IN, made directly to ICICI and guaranteed by the GOI. Out of a total amount
of $160 million, $100 million was initially allocated for engineering companies
(later reduced to $60 million). Initially, repayment by the sub-borrower was
denominated using the World Bank's variable currency pool and interest rate plus
a 2% intermediary spread to ICICI. However, this did not prove attractive to
sub-borrower.s. Consequently, the GOI agreed to take the foreign exchange risk
permitting thereby ICICI sub-loans to be denominated in Rupees with an interest
rate of 14% (see para 5.3 below).



4.4         The Export Marketincr Fund (EMFI:  The EMF was administered by EXIM.
Under this component, EXIM extended grants to private companies covering up to
50% of eligible activities, with the remaining funds coming from internal company
accruals.   EXIM approved grants up to $50,000, with larger grants requiring
approval from a steering committee composed of government and financial
institution representat_ves. Initially, only 11 product groups were eligible for
funding (composed of engineering products and computer software), but this
restriction was subsequently eased.   Eligible activities included desk and
overseas research, travel to and from India, staff training, minor product
adaptation, quality certification, and establishing overseas operations. EXIM
was to es-i.ablish a separate cell to administer the EMF composed of a manager
based at headquarters and four project officers, one each based in Delhi, Bombay,
Calcutta, and1ladras. Currently, the EXIM marketing cell consists of a Manager,
two project officers in Bombay, two project officers in Madras, and one project
officer in New Delhi.
4.5         The Productivity Fund (PF): The PF was administered by ICICI.  Like
with the EMF, grants were extended under the PF to private companies covering up
to 50% of eligible activities. ICICI could approve grants up to $100,000, in
consultation with the Association of Indian Engineering Industries (AIEI).
Larger grants required approval from a steering committee of government and
financial institution representatives. PF financing per project was restricted
to a maximum level of $200,000.  Initially, only "thrust" engineering products
were eligible for funding, although this restriction was subsequently eased.
Eligible activities included hiring productivity consultants, staff training,
product adaptation, and exposure trips to see foreign operating systems. This
was later broadened to include all export marketing activities, as provided by
the EMF. ICICI established a separate cell to administer the PF composed of a
manager and four staff officers.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1         Effectiveness and Start-an: The project was identified and appraised
during 1984, negotiated during Aug-Sept 1985, approved by the Executive Directors
in October 1985 and signed on Ja:uary 21, 1986.  Both loans became effective on
June 23, 1986, five months later. ICICI and Bank of Baroda began to commit sub-
loans shortly thereafter, in August 1986. EXIM and Canara Bank began to commit
funds in the first half of 1987 and the other PCBs in 1988 (see Table 5). For
commercial banks, this delay was due primarily to the need for each bank to
develop internal structures and procedures and to agree with the GOI on these
procedures. Even after documentation was completed, these were new procedures
for the commercial banks and it took time for them to adjust.
5.2         The EMF and the PF were new tasks which also took time for the
implementing agencies, EXIM and ICICI, to gain experience. An additional factor
contributing to the slow start up of the EMF and PF was that many of the eligible
activities used foreign currency (such as hiring foreign consultants, overseas
travel, and technology imports) and this required governmental clearances. To
address this, in mid-1987 the GOI agreed to give the steering committees for both
funds blanket government permits for approved activities. These blanket permits,
not envisaged initially, eventually proved to be among the main attractions of
the EMF and PF programs.
5.3         Implementation: Loan commitments were generally sluggish until 1989,
after which commitments picked up considerably.   The main reason for this
sluggishness was that sub-loan interest rates, as initially set for both ICICI
and commercial banks, were not attract&ife to borrowing companies. ICICI sub-loan
interest rates, initially set at the World Bank currency pool rate plus 2*,
proved unattractive to borrowing companies who were for the most part unfamiliar
with the currency pool and reluctant to take on exchange rate risk at a time of
rapid Rupee devaluation. To rectify this, the GOI agreed in February 1988 to



- 4 -
take on the foreign exchange risk and redenominate ICICI sub-loans in Rupees
carrying an interest rate of 14%.  Unrder the revised scheme, for each sub-loan
ICICI agreed to pay the GOI the difference between the World Bank interest rate
and the sub-loan interest rate, less a retained spread.   In return, the GOI
agreed to compensate ICICI for the foreign exchange risk on servicing the World
Bank loan. To bring commercial bank sub-loans into line with this, agreement was
reached in November 1988 to adjust interest rates on commercial bank loans from
15% to 14*, and 13.5% for small scale enterprises (see Table 3).
5.4         Several other actions were taken in 1988 to speed commitments.
First, it became apparent that several non-engineering products held significant
export promise. As a result, in February 1988 at the request of the GOI, the
Bank agreed to reduce the allocation for engineering products for ICICI loans
from $100 million to $60 million, and eliminate restrictions for commercial bank
sub-loans and the PF (restrictions were also informally eased for the EMF which
had, in any case. been permitted at the outset to fund computer software
projects). Second, the Bank agreed that ICICI sub-loans could cover Rupee costs
as well as foreign currency costs, up to 80% of each sub-project. Third, for
commercial barks, the Bank agreed to increase the maximum size of sub-loans from
$500,000 to $1 million and the maximum asset size of eligible companies from $2
million to $4 million. An additional factor which acted to speed up commitments
was that commercial banks obtained funds as equity.
5.5         Disbursements:  At appraisal it was projected that disbursements
would begin in January 1986 and be fully completed by December 1989, some four
years later. In fact, for all components except ICICI sub-loans, disbursements
did not start until 1988 and were not completed until October 1992. This delay
in disbursements can be primarily attributed to the initial delay in commitments
for reasons already discussed in paras. 5.1 - 5.4. An additional factor was that
during 1990-91, the GOI imposed tight import controls which made the opening of
new letters of credit difficult, even on projects already authorized for Bank
funding. A third factor was that there was sometimes a time lag of up to six
months between the submission of a claim for reimbursement by the implementing
agencies to the GOI and the submission of those claims by the GOI to the World
Bank. Finally, many PF and EMF grants remained partly undisbursed more than two
years after commitment, in part because of the Rupee devaluation and in part
because of changing market conditions.
5.6         In order to compensate for slow sub-loan disbursements and the
possibility of eventual cancellation of some of these sub-loans, the Bank
authorized sub-loan commitments on the commercial bank line of credit totalling
an amount in excess of funds available by about $8 million. While at the time
this was considered to be an effective way of ensuring maximum sub-loan
utilization, claims were eventually submitted for most of the loan commitments.
On the other hand, disbursements on the PF and EMF grants remained far below
commitments due to reasons noted in para. 5.5. Because the underdisbursement on
the EMF and PF largely compensated for overcommitments on sub-loans, the Bank was
able to reimburse all claim applications submitted to it except for about $1.6
million.
5.7         The Closing Date was extended three times, first to December 1990,
then to December 1991 and a third time to June 1992. In accordance with Bank
practice, disbursements continued to be honored for four months after the closing
date, i.e. until October 31, 1992. Underdisbursements of $5.2 million on the
ICICI sub-loan component could not be used to meet claims from other components,
since the ICICI sub-loan component was provided through a separate World Bank
loan, and these funds were canceled.



- 5 -
5.8         Procurement:    The  implementing  agencies  were  responsible  for
reviewing and approving procurement. The detailed reports submitted to the World
Bank on purchasing plans were generally of a high quality and very few funding
requests were denied.   Given the limited size of the consultant contracts
approved under the PF and EMF, the World Bank did not generally request
competitive bidding documentation, although it encouraged participating agencies
to follow Bank procurement guidelines.
5.9         Costs and Financinc: The project financing plan projected that World
Bank funds of $250 million would be matched by $750 million from other sources
for total project funding of $1 billion. A review of sub-loan data indicates
that this target was more than achieved, with total project funding amounting to
about $1.2 billion.   However,  projects did not obtain foreign commercial
borrowings as anticipated. Rather, the bulk of the matching funds came through
consortium lending from other Indian development banks (IDBI and IFCI) as well
as a growing local equity market (see Tables 2A and 2B).
VI. PROJFCT RESULTS
6.1         Imnact on Overall Exoort Performance:  The goal of the loan was to
boost Indian exports, particularly in the engineering sector. In fact, export
performance in the manufacturing sector was very good during the five year period
following 1987, increasing by about 10% in real terms per annum. This compared
favorably with both the previous five year period and with total Indian export
performance. Engineering exports rose even faster, by 11% in real terms per
annum (see Table 7). How much of this export increase was due to the existence
of the World Bank loan is uncertain, although surely some could be attributed
both to the loan and to the improved export policies that it supported.
Implementing agencies reported that the availability of the World Bank line of
credit was particularly useful in enabling companies to import capital goods
during 1990-91 when the GOI placed restrictions on such imports in order to
protect its low foreign exchange reserves. In addition to facilitating exports,
commercial banks reported that there was considerable foreign exchange savings
stemming from enabling ancillary engineering firms to provide larger firms with
import substitutes.
6.2         Sub-Loan Performance:  In total, some $229 million was disbursed in
Support of 439 loans. This was composed of $155 million on 144 loans from ICICI
with an average size of about $1 million (including 4 loans of more than $5
million each) and $75 million on 295 loans from the four participating commercial
banks with an average loan size of about $250,000. Most of these loans were used
to import machinery necessary to make the manufacturing process more competitive.
While most of these funds were reserved for engineering firms, ultimately these
reservations were lifted and less than half went to such firms. While some of
these loans were made to large exporting firms which might have had access to
funding without this project, a large number also went for new firms or firms
with new export projects. For example Bank of Baroda (BOB) reports that over
half of its loans were for new export projects.
6.3         The financial results of sub-loans look good, although information
on many sub-loans is spotty. The average financial rate of return varied across
institutions, from about 20* reported by Bank of Baroda and PNB to 40% reported
by Canara Bank. Repayment performance also appears to be reasonable, although
not exceptional. About 13% of ICICI sub-loans extended under this project have
been rescheduled or are in arrears by more than 1 year. This is roughly in line
with ICICI's overall portfolio performance. At the same time, less than 5% of
commercial bank sub-loans have been rescheduled or are in arrears by more than
1 year (see Table 8).



- 6 -
6.4         Productivity  and  Exrort  Marketing  Funds  Performance:         The
Productivity and Marketing Funds together committed $22 million ;nd disbursed
$15.6 million consisting of 359 grants to 292 companies (63 companies obtained
more than one grant). The average grant size was about $50,000 although grant
levels varied considerably with 45 companies obtaining grants of less than
$10,000 and 17 companies obtaining grants of more than $200,000.   The EXIM
reports that about half of EMF funded companies had no previous export
experience. While initially reserved primarily for engineering companies, these
reservations were lifted and, in the end, only about 71% of the EMF and 61% of
the PF went to engineering companies, the largest share of which was for Autos
and Auto parts. Of the activities funded, about half of the funds were spent on
consulting or research and on business promotional travel abroad (see Table 9B).
The blanket permit extended by the GOI on activities funded under the EMF and PF
proved to be a particularly attractive feature of the funds.
6.5         While the Staff Appraisal Report for this loan does not include a
performance measure for these funds, the follow-up project suggests that they
should generate incremental exports of 10 times the grant support over a five
year period. Using this measure, the EXIM and ICICI report that the companies
supported by the EMF and the PF generated incremental exports over the past five
year period of, respectively, 60 times and 37 times the amount of grant support
in real or US Dollar terms.  A second measure reported was that on average
assisted companies under the EMF and PF achieved annual export growth rates of
68% and 48% respectively (see Table 9A). ICICI also reported that companies
which received PF grants have shown a significant improvement in their plant
capacity utilization and a reduction in their rejection rates.   While these
measures are impressive, they should, of course, be interpreted with caution,
since company export performance can only in part be attributable to obtaining
grant funding.   Other factors at work include government policies,  company
management, and product competitiveness.
6.6         Operationally, one performance issue was that a significant number
of grants were disbursed either on activities which took place well before or far
after the original approval date. Under the EMF, 20 grants financed activities
which had taken place more than six months before authorization and 32 grants
continued to disburse more than two years after authorization. For the PF the
average time lag from sanction to final disbursement has also been long, about
18 months. While no provision was made in the project to restrict ex-post EMF
& Pr funding, such funding brings into doubt the catalytic nature of the grants.
In the case of long-delayed disbursements, activities sometimes differed from
those originally authorized. A related problem was that no formal cancellations
were requested for PF grants, despite the fact that a significant amount of
committed funds was never disbursed. To address these concerns, ex-post funding
over 3 months should be restricted in future projects and funds not disbursed
more than two years from approval should be automatically cancelled unless an
explicit reauthorization is obtained.
6.7         The performance of both the sub-loan components and the PF and EMF
grant components goes beyond strictly numerical calculations. Each loan or grant
request was accompanied by an in-depth review of the company's export strategy.
The implementing agencies have reported that these reviews have been useful in
helping overcome the supply-driven nature of Indian exports and encouraging
companies to focus rather on improving production efficiency and on better
meeting the needs of overseas clients. Regardless of the effects of particular
grants or loans, supported companies should be more likely to recognize the
importance of export investments in maintaining their competitiveness in the
future.



VII.  PROJICT SUSTAINAfBIITY
Sustainabilitv
7.1         Up until recently, both grant and sub-loan activities financed under
the Industrial Export Project were being sustained through a follow-up project -
the Export Development Project (Loans 3058-IN and 3059-IN) - approved in 1989.
This follow-up project provided funding for the same activities and included, in
addition, a technical assistance component for improving the managerial
capabilities of the implementing agencies in evaluating export projects. Due to
recent economic reforms which included measures to make the Rupee partially
convertible, part of the sub-loan component under Loan 3059-IN was effectively
stalled as sub-borrowers found the on-lending arrangements no longer attractive.
In response, the affected part of the sub-loan component is being cancelled.  In
its stead, the Bank and the Government are considering a follow-up project,
involving the single currency option recently approved by the Board, that could
be made more attractive to sub-borrowers in its on-lending arrangements, and at
the same time not require the Government or the RBI to shoulder exchange
risk.
7.2         Lending for export projects by EXIM and ICICI should be sustainable
in the medium to long term. ICICI is a mature and generally well-run institution
which is in the process of reforming its operations to be more market oriented
and to mobilize increasing amounts of resources on its own. In a freer policy
environment it is likely to be able to capitalize on its experience under this
project and continue to make loans to bankable export projects. The EXIM is a
newer institution, but given its export orientation it is also likely to
internalize significant gains from this project. The EXIM has also begun to
supplement its public support through raising funds from fixed deposits and
borrowing from public institutions and this should further enhance its lending
capacity.
7.3         Commercial banks are also expected to play an expanding role in
financing export activity. A major goal of the on-going reforms is to increase
India's export performance which, if successful, should result in increasing
demand for both short term export finance and term finance, including for export
projects, from commercial banks. From 1991 to 1993 commercial banks have, in
fact, increased their short term export finance by about 50t in Rupee terms.
This has been facilitated in part by the reduction in mandatory reserve
requirements of commercial banks, generous refinance facilities provided by the
RBI, and a government directive to the commercial banks to provide at least 10%
of their credit for export finance, a level that some of the banks have already
surpassed (for example 12.7% of Canara Bank's total credit is now export
oriented). The commercial banks have also begun to increase their term lending
for both export and domestic oriented clients. Term loans now account for about
30t of credit provided by Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, and Punjab National Bank.
However, assuming the demand for export finance continues to increase, additional
steps will be needed to enhance the capability of banks to respond to the
emerging credit needs of exporters, including financial and institutional
restructuring. The Bank is currently discussing these issues with GOl within the
context of a proposed financial sector adjustment operation.
7.4         The ability of ICICI and EXIM to sustain their grant-financed
programs for export promotion without World Bank support is more limited. ICICI
has obtained a small amount of additional grant funds for export promotion from
the British agency DeCTA and EXIM has initiated a program that supports export
marketing activities with Rupee based funds. However, these programs are much
more limited than that supported by the Bank. Since grant funding does not
involve any reflow of funds, continual funding would be needed to sustain this
component as currently structured. Of course, even without external assistance,
supported companies should be better able to see the value of making export
investment on their own.



-        V *III. PEFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE niPLEmEng AGENCIES
8.1         World Bank Performance:  During the seven years between the Loan's
approval and its completion, the World Bank supervised the project 12 times (see
table 12). Missions met with implementing agencies, exporters, and GOI officials
and were directed largely at monitoring commitments and disbursements and
resolving bottlenecks. In addition to mission work, the Task Manager reviewed
and approved each individual sub-loan and grant from headquarters.   These
approvals were largely done in a timely manner, usually within two weeks.
8.2         ImDlementinc Aaencies Performance:  A number of the implementing
agencies were slow to start, which is understandable since the activities were
relatively new. As they staffed units and gained expertise, commitments picked
up. All parties worked well together in 1987 and 1988 to resolve interest rate
and eligibility bottlenecks.   The implementing agencies have generally been
diligent in seeking out and working with potential exporters in reviewing
projects and preparing detailed export strategies.   Each agency generally
provided comprehensive documentation on each sub-loan and grant to the World Bank
Task Manager for review and prepared a useful general implementation review
during each supervision mission (normally about twice yearly). However, these
reports were prepared using different formats and did not generally include
planned vs. actual performance measures. A more systematic approach towards data
collection would have facilitated monitoring during supervision, preparing the
PCR, and designing future operations.
IX. LESSONS FROM TUN PROJECT
9.1         While the project was generally a success, several lessons can be
learned from this project, some of which have been incorporated into the follow-
up Export Development Project. These lessons include:
(i)   Let the market decide where exnorts will be:  The initial focus of
the project on engineering goods as having the most export potential
was well documented.   However,  while engineering exports did
outperform overall exports, there were other products such as non-
traditional goods, chemicals, and computer software which performed
as well or better. In recognition of this, the allocation in this
project for engineering goods were eased and in the follow-up
project funds were made available to all manufacturing and computer
software firms.
(ii)   Let the market decide the on-lendincr rate: Slow initial commitments
could be directly traced to the fact that the initial rates
established for sub-loans were uncompetitive, unattractive to
borrowers, and had to be revised. Towards the end of the project
rates were somewhat below-market, which may have also distorted the
demand for loans. In future projects, on-lending arrangements used
in financial intermediation should be easily understood by sub-
borrowers, market based, and easily adjustable. A related point is
that passing loan funds to commercial banks in the form of equity
introduced demand pressures unrelated to sub-project quality. For
this reason, the issues of recapitalizing the financial sector and
loan funding should be dealt with separately when feasible.
(iii) Coordinate the Productivity Fund. the Marketing Fund and sub-loans
more: While it was anticipated that the use of loan and grant funds
would be coordinated, in fact sub-loans and grants for the same
company were largely approved independently by different
implementing institutions, resulting in duplication in both
documentation and government clearances as well as not developing a
coordinated approach to a company's overall export strategy. The
follow-up project attempts to address this by combining the
activities provided under the Productivity and Marketing Funds and
permitting each participating institution to provide both grant
funds and sub-loans.



9-
PART IIs  2ROJBCT RXVIEW FROM TIM BORROWUR'   PZRBPECTXV
Written comments on the project have been received from five of the six
implementing agencies.   The comments listed below are executive summaries
prepared by these agencies. In some cases, the implementing agencies submitted
longer reports and more detailed statistics which are available for review in the
project file.



Page 1 of 2
- 10 -
PROJECT REVIEW FROM ICICI'S PERSPECTIVB
(Productivity Fund)
OBJECTIVE
1.          The Productivity Fund of US$10 million was operated by ICICI for
providing financial assistance by way of grant to Indian exporters undertaking
Export Development programmes. The purpose of the fund when it was conceived,
was to improve the exports and export capability of India companies. Initially
the fund was for providing assistance for Productivity Improvement programmes for
export mlarkets.   Subsequently, export market related activities were also
included within the framework of the fund.
TJTLIZATION
2.          A total of 152 schemes for 112 companies were assisted under the
Productivity Fund during the period 1986-1992. The details of the utilization
of the funds are:
o   Total fund was US$10 million
*    Total sanctions US$11.67 million
*   Total Disbursements US$9.463 million
IMPACT OP TRE FMND
3.          The following indicators have been used to analyze the impact of the
fund:
Exvort Related:
*    Total exports for the group of Productivity Fund assisted companies
was US$61.77 million in 1986-87. This had increased to exports of
US$208.68 million by 1991-1992.
e    Incremental exports for the companies over the 5 year period 1986-1992
has been US$434.42 million. This is 37.2 times the sanctioned amount.
e    The actual incremental exports is about 9t lower than the planned
incremental exports.  The Electronic/Software and Consumer Product
groups performed below expectations, while Chemicals and Textiles
performed above planned.
o    In 1987-88, 47 companies had exports more than 5% of the total sales
whereas, by 1991-92, 70 companies had export more than 5% of the total
sales.
*    16 companies had exports more than 25% of the total sales in 1987-88
while 34 companies had exports of more than 25% of the total sales by
1991-92.
Productivity Related
o    In 1987-88 40 companies had capacity utilization lower than 50% while
in 1991-92 only 16 companies had capacity utilization lower than 50%.
o    The entire group has shown substantial improvement in rejection and
rework rates.
*    Most of the PF assisted companies have improved their profitability
through increased exports, lower inventories, and better planning.



Pace 2 of 2
Other oualitative Imorovement
e   By 1991-92, most of the companies are seeing exports as a profitable
business opportunity.
*   The companies have been becoming more dynamic with exports emerging
as a main line activity for the companies.
o   The export awareness has increased all throughout the organizations
of the assisted companies.
*   Most of the companies feel that their international orientation and
quality standards have improved drastically.
PATTERN OF ASSISTANCE
e    The average amount per assistance was around US$76,775.
*   Maximum assistance of 61% to Engsncering Industries (includes Auto-
ancillaries, Electricals, Electronics, Heavy a'd Light Engg).
*   Average time lag from sanction to disbursement has been around 18
months - mainly because of the developmental nature of most
programmes.
o   Maximum assistance of 20* was sanctioned for consultancy followed by
12.8% for export promotion visits.
   Around 65 programmes were mainly Export promotion towards which a
total of US$2.86 million was disbursed.
*   36% of the companies utilized more than 95% of the sanctioned amount
while only 4% utilized less than 10 of the sanctioned amount.
RECOMMENDATIONS
o   The possibility of operating such funds as soft loans should be
considered as this could help leverage the benefits of the funds on
an ongoing basis.
o   Providing lower assistance for companies which are able to afford the
Export Development programmes from their own resources.
o   Limit to be placed on number and amount of repeat assistance so that
a larger number of companies can be targeted and assisted. This could
increase the scope and reach of the fund.
*   As the average lead time for developing EDF programmes is usually
long, the marketing efforts made by ICICI in the last couple of years
are resulting in EDF applications now. However ICICI might not be
able to support these as the EDF (line 2) is also almost nearing
completion.   In view of this and the beneficial results of the
Productivity Funds, we strongly request augmenting the Export
development efforts through more such funds - maybe a EDF-3 -type of
fund.
*   Heavy marketing for Productivity Fund was required in the early years
during which ICICI has made 500 audio visual presentations and has
interacted with about 3000 companies for informing them about the EDP
scheme. This has resulted in about 200 companies being assisted under
Productivity Fund and EDF-2. Hence the hit rate, in our experience
is about 6-7% only.
e    For EDF-2, ICICI has already - in view of the scarcity of funds -
reduced the assistance to a maximum of tTSS200,000 per company. ICICI
has also reduced assistance towards travel expenditure and rupee
expenditure such as taxes etc.



- 12 -                               Page 1 of 3
IBRD LOAN NO.2629-IN : EXIM BANKKS REVIEW
Background :
1.       E.im  Bank was designated as the Implementing  Agency  for  Export
Marketing Fund (EMF), a component of World Bank loan to Government of India
(001) under IBRD Loan No.2629-IN. Out of the total loan of US $ 250 in.,
Exim was allocated US S 10 mn., to be utilised by way of matching grant to
eligible  Indian  enterprises  to  carry  out  eligible  export   marketing
activities. EMF programme became effective for operation on March 27, 1986
and closed on June 30, 1992.
2.         Initially, a group of ten select engineering product groups  and
computer software were admitted for support. The selection was based on
the cost comparative advantages enjoyed by the product groups as revealed
in the World Bank study report titled 'Light Industrial Export Development
and Finance' of 1983. Subsequently, as the EM? programme progressed, more
product groups were admitted for support based on the competitiveness of
the products.
Performance Review :
3.         At  the  close of the programme, EXIM Sank  committed  the  full
amount of US S 10 mn (equivalent to Rs.158.34 mu) and disbursed an amount
of US  $  8.929 ma (equivalent to Rs.132.18 mu) to  support  market  entry
and/or  expansion  plans  of 180  companies.   Disbursements  to  sanctions
percentage was satisfactory at 89% at the close of the programme.
4.         Of  the product categories supported under EMF programme,  auto
ancillaries accounted for largest sanction (20% of total amount), followed
by  computer  software  (18%),  miscellaneous  products  classified   under
'others' (15%), Diesel enginers, pumps and compressors (10%) and castings
and forgings (10%). Rest of the product groups namely bicycles and parts,
machine tools, hand tools, chemical process plants, industrial valves and
electric motors/starters accounted for the balance 27% of total sanctions.
5.         The  grantee companies performed well under the  EMF programme.
Almost 56% of the sanctions went to first time exporters for market entry
programmes while the balance was for expansion or diversification of
markets.   Of  the 180 companies supported under ENF, 129  companies  (72%)
were small and medium sized with Net Fixed Assets of less than Rs.100 an.
About 9% of the total sanction went to Companies whose manufacturing units
were situated in industrially backward areas.
6.        of the total disbursed amount of Rs.132.18 mn (equivalent to US $
8.929  mn),  market research accounted for 21%,  minor product  adaptation
(21%),   Business  promotion  travels  (23%).   Other market   development
activities like trade fair participation (4%), product inspection and
certification   (8%),  establishing  overseas  operations   (4%),   product
promotion   and  publicity  (11%),  buyer's  visit  to  India,   ISO   9000
certification and registration of patents (6%), training (2%) accounted for
the balance.
7.        In  US $ terms, the total cost underrun in EMF programme was  11%
while  the  average  time overrun was 11 months.   Cost  underrun  occurred



- 13 -                                Page 2 of 3
partly due to depreciation of Indian rupees against US $ which resulted in
availability of more rupees under the sanctioned amount.  Since part of the
EMF expenditure was in Indian rupees, this resulted in non-utilisation of
full  sanctioned  limit.   Another reason  was  non-completion  of  certain
envisaged  programme  activities  by  few  grantee   companies  within  the
programme period. Time overrun arose due to changing market conditions and
internal policy changes in India resulting in some grantees revising their
earlier plans.
Imoact g  export nerformance of arantee companies
S.         Performance of assisted companies has been  impressive.   During
the   five  year  performance  evaluation  period  (1987-91),   the   total
incremental exports generated by the grantees as compared to pre-EMF period
amounted to Rs.6.3 bn. giving an export multiplier factor of 60 times the
grant amount in real terms. Nearly 68% of the incremental exports went to
N. America (41%) and EEC (27%). Exports to Japan, Australia, New Zealand
and Far East amounted to 4%, while the balance 28% went to other hard
currency areas. The grantee companies registered compound growth rate of
69% p.a. in exports during this period. While exports to N. America
registered highest growth rate of 88% p.a., EEC registered 46% p.a. growth.
9.         Of  the  product  groups, diesel  engines, pumps  &  compressor
category registered CAOR of 141% in exports followed by computer software
98% and castings & forgings 94%. Average CAGR in exports for all product
groups during this five year period was 68% p.a. The above performance of
grantee companies compares well with export growth of the industry sub-
group.   While  exports of auto ancillaries sector grew at  37%  p.a.,  EMF
companies in this sector grew at 44%. Similarly, exports of computer
software industry grew at 58% p.a., EMF companies in software sector grew
at 98% p.a. Castings and forgings companies supported under EMF registered
CAGR  of  94% as against 40% growth of this  sector.   Satisfactory  growth
performance was witnessed in other product groups as well.
Some Lessons
10.        EMF  programme  introduced for the first  time  the  concept  of
structured and strategic export market development in the Indian companies.
Despite an initial slow start, the programae picked up momentum as more and
more companies were brought on board by the Bank's corporate call
programmes  and  sector  analysis  to  support  target  marketing  of   the
programme. EXIM learnt that through structured advisory and financial
support, companies could be motivated to enter and succeed in competitive
export markets. Firm level contacts were made by EXIM Bank after choosing
companies for support under the programme.
11.        EXIM  has  highlighted export successes  registered  by  grantee
companies through its casebook series published in various business
journals in India to provide a demonstration effect of the programme.
While the initial focus was on engineering products, EXIM had to offer
flexiblity in admitting other product groups based on competitive strength
and  export  potential  displayed by  these  products.   Similarly,  market
development activities other than originally envisaged under the programme
like trade fair participation, ISO 9000 certification, advertisement in
trade  journals,   were  required  to be supported  to  take  into  account



- 14 -                                Pacre 3 of 3
specific needs of the target product and target markets.
12.         Since  the  programme  has  generated  enormous  interest   and
expectations from the Indian companies, there was a need to sustain the
programme. WS loan IBRD 3058 IN comprising loan and grant components which
came as a follow through programme was well appreciated by the Indian
companies.   Now this second programme is drawing to a close.  In order  to
keep  the  catalvtical effect onaoina, E3I Bank has already  introduced  a
third programme comprising of loan for supply side upgradation and grant
for market development activities. This is being funded out of EXIM Bsank's
own resources. In view of rupee funding, first time exporters will face
certain forex regulatory problems. A technical assistance nrogramme from
WB to support EMF activities would go a long way in sustaining the positive
results achieved through the first programme.
13.        Regular  interaction  with  grantee  companies  throughout   the
monitoring and review period enabled ESI Bank to assess what factors
contribute to the success or otherwise of a firm's export efforts.
Periodic review indicated the nature of errors commited by firms in
international marketing. Useful inputs gathered from assisted companies
helped  EXIM   to provide effective guidance and advisory services  to  new
exporters.   EXIM's analysis indicate  that top management  commitment  was
the  most vital  factor for achieving export  success.   Besides  creating
capability   within  EXIM  Bank  to  provide  strategic  export   marketing
consultancy   at  firm  level,  the EXIM  officers  has  benefited  through
interaction with WS officers. In the process there has been a nature of
learning that has also percolated into other areas of EXIM's  working, with
enrichment  effects.   This  occurs when  a  young,  learning  organisation
interacts with an institution like WS that is rich in cross country
experiences.
14.       Grantee companies moved up the value chain.  Increased investment
in expansion, diversification or plart upgradation and modernisation
occurred in many grantee companies consequent to the export success.
Companies  also  moved up from low end market segment to higher  end    and
more profitable segments in exports progressively. EXIM learnt that in
order to sustain the export success, a cordinated approach to address the
needs of firms on supply side, demand side and productivity was necessary.
This became possible under ENF-II (3058-IN) programme which had both loan
and grant components.



- 15 -                     Pace 1 of 2
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK OF -ARODA' S PERSPECTTVN
1.0    GENERAL
1.1    Loan Amount (US $ M)      :   70.00
1.2    Allocation to 909         :    First come first served
1.3    Effective Date            :   September 1986
1.4    Period of scheme               December 1989
(extended to December '91)
1.5'   Purpose                   s   To  assist industries  to
improve export competi-
tiveness / import substi-
tution.
1.6    Type of Industry covered :   All manufacturing industry
1.7    Size of loan per project :   Min. * US $ 50,000/-
Max. s US * 10,00,000/-
1.8    Free Limit                s    $ 2,50,000/-
2.0    BOB's Performance as on  s   No. of sub-         Amount
30.6.92                        projects        (US $ Million)
2.1    Total approved            :       69              22.94
Of which :
Free limit                        38               5.50
Over free limit                   31              17.337
2.2    Average Loan per subproject   US $ 3,32,536/-
3.0.0 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS s
3.1.0 ASSISTANCE :
3.1.1  No. of Industry Groups supported s 9
3.1.2  No. of companies assisted          : 60
3.1.3  Average size of loan (US S M)    s 0.34
3.1.4  Average size of subproject         : 0.8
(in terms of investment in
plant and machinery (US $ M)
3.2.0 LOAN AMOUNT :
3.2.1  Amount committed (US $ M)          a 22.00
3.2.2  Amount Disbursed (US $ M)          : 22.00



Page 2 of 2
- 16-
3.3.0 LOCATION OF PROJECTS :
3.3.1  Backward area                      X 55X
3.3.2  Others                             t 45%
3.4.0  BENEFITS : (Upto March '92)
3.4.1  Foreign Exchange                    (Rs. Million)
Earnings                             470.0
Savings                              537.00
3.4.2 Export Earnings from :
G-7 countries                        420.00
Developing countries                  35.00
3.5.0  PROJECTED (Next 3 years)
3.5.1  Earnings/Savings                     1350.00
Projects Funded                       65
Projects Implemented                  65
Average Financial Return (%)          14%
3.6.0  TURNOVER TO INVESTMENT               (Rs. Million)
3.6.1  FE Earnings/Savings upto 31.3.92        1007.00
Estimated (3 years)                    1350.00
Total                                  2357.00
3.6.2  INVESTMENTS from
a) Loan 2629                            440.00
b) Additional Rupee Term Loan by BOB   170.00
c) Promoters                            304.00
914.00
3.6.3  Turnover to total Investment Ratio    2.57 times



Page 1 of 1
- 17 -
PROJECT REVIEW FRO  MLPJN~AB NATIONAL BANK' S PERSPE=TIV
C~~L01a3la1 Milm                                      #4-4fl Ref:
punjab Antionac  bonk                                     Wr4; Date: 14-11-92
Jim 4mm = tW / A Goveflm of bndao Unertthing
CREDIT AOMNo DIVISION
(POLICY SECTION)
HO : NEW DELHI
BRIEF CESCRIPTION OF IMPLEMENTATION RECORD ON UNITS ASSISTEO BY
WORLD O.K WOE.R INDUSTRIAL EXPORT (JE.GG. MOD) PROECT-LN 2629ZIN
The assistance of the world Bank has been of immense help to our rfank*
The equity base of the bank has further wicoened due to readily available
foreign exchange, which is otherwise scarcely available in our country.
The World Bank project mace the circumstances highly conoucive to the
Bank to serve the cause of-inoustrial cevelopmant of the country without
bothering for availability of the scarce foreign exchange finances. The
availability of refinance by bank also maoe the assessment quicker because
the bank cic not have to think of the resource crunch. Besices the project
envisages that the Govt. of Incia woulo bear foreign exchange risk, on
repayment of IaRO loan.
With the installation of machinery the export earnings of the assisted
units increased manifolo. There has been an increase in inoustril.
proouction witn enrictnent of the quality of procuct.
The World Bank assistance has opened up new vistas to the finances units
in t t area of installation of new upto date machinery, as per international
standards, expansion of more areas of export and proliferation of more 100%
Export oriented units.
It has been observed that by and large the units fi)anced have been able-to
cutr down on labour expenses, capacity ubilisation of financed machinery
and greater emphasis on quality product Sn order to enter the highly
competitive export market.
The areas of activity of the financed units are leather products,, leather
tanning, Hosiery & Garments items, autoparts, manufacture of video magnetic
tapes, jwellery & Diamonds fabricaticti etc. The units have been able to
achieve their projected production, sales and profits parameters tith opening
up of new areas of cesicning and cost effective parameters to meet out
compelling boundary conditions automatically imposed by global a conomic
trends.



Paae 1 of 3
- 18 -
PROJECT R-VZW FROM CA:. DANK' S PERSPECTIVE
SUMtMtARY
Canara  Bank could identify majority of its  clients  in
small and medium scale sectors. These sectors are
potential for manufacturing qualitative products at
comparatively cheaper prices( This will be possible due
to low cost of production).
Under the Scheme, Canara Bank could extend assistance
to 86 projects, which.comprises 32 units in Small  Scale
Sector and 51 units in medium scale sector. Balance 3
units are in Large Scale Sector.
With its wide net work, Canara Bank could identify
projects from all over the country.
Sectorwise disbursements  underI_EP Scheme
SECTOR            DISBURSEMENTS          %wise    %wise
disbur-  no.
sement   of units
SMALL  SCALE   US $ 2.82  MILLLION         13        37
MEDIUM SCALE   US $ 16.25 MILLION          76        59
LARGE SCALE    US $  2.22 MILLION          11  .    4
INDUSTRYWISE DISBURSEMENTS & EXPOSURE
NATURE OF INDUSTRY    RS.IN MN   NO OF UNITS    % Wise
ENGG GOODS              101.20        29             28
ELECTRONICS              45.65        10             13
LEATHER GOODS            52.27        16             15
GARMENTS                 36.00        13             10
LATEX PRODUCTS           21.73         3              6
MISC & OTHERS           101.24        15             28



Paqae2 of 3
- 19 -
The  miscellaneous  and others include   granite  tiles,
rubber aprons, flock fibre, leather chemicals, surgical
adhesive tapes, cotton yarn, etc.
Out of 86 projects, 8 projects have fully repaid the
Term Loan availed from us. One project has not availed
the TL and another not implemented. Unavailed balances
in  these sub-loans have, been substituted.   4  projects
are under implementation.
Projects   which  have  already  been  implemented   had
achieved exports sales to the extent of 95% of total
sales of Rs.345 million as at 31.3.92.<including deemed
exports)
The   overall   performance   of   all   industries   is
satisfactory except for latex gloves projects. Due to
glut in the international market for latex gloves, these
units have either diversified or in the process of
diversifying into manufacture of condoms.  Our  exposure
to these projects is meagre (in terms of no. of units 3
- Total amount disbursed is US $ 1,367,155)
Our overall experience as bankers implementing this
scheme  (LN  2629-IN)  is  encouraging.   Assisted  sub-
projects   are  expected  to  contribute   substantially
towards country's exports in the years to come.



P-aae 3 of 3
- 20 -
The scheme has mainly helped the country In two aspects.
1.  Enabled    the   industries   to    upgrade    their
technology/products in order to compete in the
international market.
2. .Employment generation.
1.  Technolo_v ucoradation
Commercial  Banks with their widely spread net  work
of operations could identify more number of projects
in small and medium scale. But for the association
of a few Commercial Banks in implementation of this
project,  small & medium scale units would not  have
been able to derive the benefit from this Scheme.
With comparatively lower capital investments and low
overhead costs, the projects implemented under these
sectors  had   an  edge in  the  export  market   by
manufacuring products which conform to International
Standards at competitive prices. When the codntry9s
Balance of Payment position was tight, the scheme
had   helped   in   catering   to   the   needs   of
Industrialists  for. establishing new  projects   or
expanding/modernising technology which ultimately
made them to manufacture products to cater to the
needs of International market.
2.  Emolovment Generation
IEP  - LN 2629-IN, Scheme could  provide  employment
opportunities. (both directly and indirectly) in the
private sector.
Eiuturg Outlook/lessons learnt
By  giving  maJor  thrust to  exports,  the  scheme  had
helped  in creating awareness among  industrialists  for
manufacturing qualitative products in order to compete
in the International Market.
By giving fillip through grant assistance under Export
Development  Fund  (Ln 3O's-IN),  some  Exporters  could
penetrate into new markets while the new experters cculd
position their products in the international market thus
stimulating alround exports growth.



- 21 -
PART III STATISTICAL INFORNATION
1.  Related Bank Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
2A. Planned Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
2B. Actual Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
3.  Sub-loan Lending Terms   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
4.  Project Timetable  ........  ...  ...  ...  ..  ...   . 25
5.  Loan Commitments   ........  ...  ...  ...  ..  ...   . 26
6.  Loan Disbursements ........  ..           .  ...  ..  ...   . 27
7.  Selected Indicators of India's Fxport Achievement  . . . . . . . 28
8.  Selected Indicators of Sub-loan Achievements . . . . . . . . . . 29
9A. Selected Indications of EMF and PF Achievements  . . . . . . . . 30
9B. Activities Funded By Grant Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
IOA. Performance of Implementing Agencies - 1987  . . . . . . . . . . 31
lOB. Performance of Implementing Agencies - 1992  . . . . . . . . . . 31
11.  Use of Bank Resources  ......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  .  . 32
12.  Mission Data   ..........  ...  ....  ...  ...  .  . 33
13.  Status of Compliance with Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
14.  List of ICICI Sub-loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
15.  List of Commercial Bank Sub-loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
16.  List of EXIM EMF Grants  ......  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  . 44
17. List of ICICI PF Grants  ....................                  . 48



-22-
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan           Title                Purpose           Year of   Status
No                        -                       j Approval  .|
Previous Prolects
20S1-IN  14th Industrial      Increase the supply of  1981      Closed-l
.0I  ~Credit & investment  investment funding to
project             industrial projects
___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ____.  :through    ICICI   .__  __ _   .__ __
?5%low UD Proiects
3058-IN  Export Development   Increase the supply of  1989      Ongoing
and      Project              investment funding for
3059-IN                       export oriented
projects and export
promotional activities
through ICICI and
other financial
institutions
=                                                   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 23 -
TABLE 2A: PLANNED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
Local Financing
Foreign                                Private
IBRD    Commercial  ICICI    PCBs    ExIM"      Sponsors    Total
ICICI                    160       160         180       -        -         260         760
Commercial Banks          70         -          -       60        -          70         200
Productivity Fund         10         -          -        -        -          10          20
Export Marketing Fund    10          -          -        -        -          10          20
Total                    250        160        180      60        -         350       1,000
s  EXIM acted as implementing agency for the Export Marketing Fund which did not involve
it providing financing of its own.
TABLE 2B: ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
Local Financing                         1
PCBs,
Foreign              DFCs,             Private
IBRD    Commercial  ICICI    Equity EXIM        Sponsors    Total
ICICI                    155          -        11011     4801     -         2558/     1000*a
Commercial Banks          74          -         -         b/      _           bl       200b
Productivity Fund                     -         -         -       -           8          16
Export Marketing Fund      8          -         -         -       -           8          16
Total                    245                                                          1232
#  Rounded, based on an extrapolation from a random sample of 24 ICICI sub-loans.
b Rounded, based on an extrapolation from those companies reporting. The breakdown
between PCBs and private sponsors was not available.



- 24 -
TABLE 3:  SUB-LOAN LENDING TERMS
ICICI                      Commercial Banks
Interest Rate       Initial:  IBRD rate+2*              Initial:  1S%
Revised:  14%                      Revised:  14% (13.5% for
2/88                               11/88           small cots.)
Repayment Period   Up to 15 years                       3 to 10 years
Grace Period        Up to 3 years                       1 to 3 years
Commitment Fee      Up to 1% on undisb balance          Up to 1* on undisb balance
Exchange Risk       Initial:  Taken by sub-             Covered by GOI
borrower
Revised:  Covered by GOI
2/88
Repayment to GOI    Initial:  None (repayment to        None (funds become part of
IBRD)                    banks' equity.)
Revised:
2/88      10.5t minus IBRD Rate
5/88      11.0% minus IBRD Rate"
' ICICI thus retains a spread of 3* (14%-llf) to cover administrative costs.



- 25 -
TABLE 4: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                      Date Planned           Actual Date
Preparation/Pre-Appraisal Mission                           April 1984
Appraisal Mission                                            August/September 1984
Loan Negotiation                       March 19850          August/September 1985
Board Presentation                     April 19850           October 1985
Loan Signature                                               January 21, 1986
Loan Effectiveness                     Januar.y 1986b        June 23, 1986
Sub-loan Authorization Deadline        December 31, 1988"  March 30, 1992d'
Loan Closing                           December 31, 19890  June 30, 1992
Loan Completion                        December 31, 19890   October 31, 1992
a'  Date planned following the Appraisal Mission.
b Data planned in the President's Report to the Board.
Cl  Date planned in the Loan Documents.
A Although  the  official  cut-off  date,  as  revised,  was March  30,  1992  a  few
authorizations were made in April/May 1992 in order to assure maximum utilization.



TABLE&: LOAN COMMffMET
(SM., Cumulative)
Estimated at Appraisal                        Actual                          Actual as % of Estimated
---------- --s---------PF------        -------- ------------ PF-------         -------- ---s---------- -----  a-
V                                             8.Z...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
.  .   .....  
1986 June   .S.~10~~' 05~0                                                                      0     0       .      . 0.0
Dec       74    3506.8 tl$ ~                       1      10        1.0       1Z57               2.9.   0.0     00 1.
1987 June      1.0 55 0               M .    7~     ..1.       2.    ' .     08     21149             5.3.1.    24.2   1.
Dec     .100 70.0    7.          .                               ~:058    I.t 0.      .'"17.'3:   &O   5.    15.1   Is15.
198June     16'      0        8     7.3  248t,3  I tO                      0.    504~        1       88 6.2:  1 1.0   2.
Dec~16.0                    .3              A$$71.8 0'88            2.5 >7.M24 2.4   660 28.9   2.
9.                  ~~~76.4  .. 99.'A               9.    0.     90 9.    0.
199  June                                                ....<'  0,    72.3     .< 1.    5.  0.0133 9.    1.    0.
Dec.                                    i2,0   7.2~~1~0        12.  '~i.        10.6 1103    9.0 12.0  104.
1992 June    6'~                                               8.5   900 1.2  26.           x0       1.1 10012014.73
1991 June~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                            , ., 



TABLE 6: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
($M. Cumulative)
Estimated at Appraisal                     Actual                          Actual as % of Estimated
EXIM. ICICI             .             IM   tOl.                            E)IM  ICICI
ICICI   PCB's  EMF   PF   Total      ICJCI   PCB's  EMF f PF   Total       ClC    PCB's  EMF   PF   Total
1986 June     2.0   2.5   0.5   0.0   5.0
Dec    14.5   10.0   2.5   1.0  28.0           4.1                        4.1       28.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   14.6
1987 June    40.5   30.0   4.5   2.6  77.6          7.8                 0.1   7,9        19.3   0.0   0.0   3.8  10.2
Dec     74.0   50.0   6.5   4.4  134.9        15.2                 0.3  15.5       20.5   0.0   0.0   6.8   11.5
1988 June   li9.0  70.0   8.5   6.4  203.9         19.0                 0.3  19.3        16.0   0.0   0.0   4.7   9.5
Dec    141.0  70.0  10.0   8.4  229.4         26.4   1.9   1.3   0.3  29.9          18.7   2.7   13.0   3.6  13.0
1989 June   160.0  70.0  10.0   10.0  250.0        59.6   8.8   3.3   0.6  72.3          37.3  12.6  33.0   6.0  28.9
Dec                                           66.9   13.3   3.9   0.6  84.7         41.8   19.0  39.0   6.0   33.9
1990 June                                          95.5  26.4   5.4   1.6  128.9         59.7  37.7  54.0   16.0  51.6
Dec                                          107.3  37.7   5.6   2.0  152.6         67.1   53.9  56.0  20.0  61.0
1991 June                                         130.6  60.5   6.8   3.3  201.2         81.6  86.4   63.0  33.0  80.5
Dec                                          136.7  63.6   7.5   3.8  211.6        85.4  90.9  75.0   38.0  84,6
1992 June                                         151.4  70.0   7.7   4.7  233.8         94.6  100.0  77.0  47.0  93.5
Dec                                          154.8  74.4  .8.1    7.5  244.8        96.8  106.3   81.0  75.0  97.9
Note: These figures are taken from the World Bank's loan Dept. and may differ from those of the implementing agencies



- 28 -
TX=  7:Z SE=CTED INDICATOR'S OF INDIA'S BXPORT GROWTH
(US$ in constant 1981 prices)
Average
Annual Growth
Year Ending   Year Ending   Year Ending    in Real Terms
Mar. 31. 82   Mar. 31. 87   Mar. 31, 92    82-87   87-:92
($M)          ($M)           ($M)         (%)      (%)
Total Exports                8522           10029          14915        3.3      8.3
Manufactured Goods         5240            6654          10607        4.9      9.8
of which Engineering    1048              907           1504       -2.9    10.6
Non-manufactured Goods    3278             3375           4367        0.6      5.3
Sources:  Ministry of Commerce and Reserve Bank of India
Note:     Deflated using export unit value deflators, except for 91-92 for which
a deflator was not available and a straight 4% discount factor was used.



- 29 -
TIEL_ S:  SWLCTUD XIDICISORS OF SMB-LOIN AC_IEV2EIITS
iCICI    B0O    CANARA      SBX       PNB
Amount Cmmitted  $ a) a'            160      20       21       30         5
Amount Disbursed ($ m) b            155      22       19       29         5
No. of Loans                       144       65       86      124        20
No. of Companies                   123       60       84      120        18
Average size of Loons ($ m)           1.0     0.34     0 .23    0.25      0.26
Av. Sales of Companies (Re a)      1150      16.8     69.7
Average Fin. Rate of
Return (%) d                               22.4     39.8               20
No. with L.T.
Arrears/Reschedulings I              19       2        2        2%
No. of Full Cancellations            26       9        9         0        S
Average Time overrun (months)        10       6        6
% to Engineering Firms              48    1 8         26
Amount authorized for commitment by the World Bank   This may differ
somewhat from the amount indicated by the implementing agencies due to the
use of different exchange rates.
uJ    Disbursements  for  individual  PCBs  are  estimates  since  sub-project
disbursement are not individually tracked by the World Bank and PCB
provided figures are reported in Rupees.
Based only on the companies which reported this.
L.T. Arrears are arrears over 1 year.



- 30 -
TABLE 9A: SELECTED INDICATORS OF GRANT ACHIEVEMENTS
EXIM BANK                   ICICI
EMF                        PF
Amount Committed t$ m)                      10                        12
Amount disbursed ($ m)                       8.1                       7.5
No. of Grants                              207                       152
No. of Companies                           180                       112
Av. Size of Commitments ($)             48,000                    76,000
Av. Size of Grants Disbursed t$)        39,000                    49,000
|Av. Sales of Companies (Rs m)              261                       205
_Av. Incremental Export/Grants               60                   _  37
|AV. Ann. Exp. Growth in Co.                68                       48
_No. of Cancellations                        12                         / 0
|Average Disbursement Time                   15                       18
L (months)                        (excl. ex-post funding)
Av. Cost Underrun (undiab bal.)
($)                                    9,000                    27,000
e to Engineering Firms                      71                       61
I Ten grants were fully undisbursed but had not been formally cancelled.
TABLE 9B: ACTIVITIES FUNDED BY GRANT PROGRAMS
(% of Total)
EXIM BANK               ICICI
Consulting/Training/Know-How               21                     38
Business Promotional Travel                23                     13
Product Certification/Adaption             31                     10
Attending Trade Fairs                       8                      6
Staff Training                              2                     10
Production Equipment/Sampling               _                     18
Advertising                                10                      4
Establishing Overseas Offices               4                    _
Travel to India Buyers                      1                      1
Total                                     100                    100



- 31 -
TABLE 10As PERFORMANCB OF XMPL3MEMETNG AGENCIS: 1987
(Rs. Billions)
l________________________    ICICI  EXIM     BOB    CANARA    SBI      PNB
Total Credit Outstanding             7.2     37.4    46.6 _           44.0
of wh Term Loans                   6.2     11.2       _ _           11.8
of wh Export Oriented            6.2      0.8                      1.9
Net Worth                            2.5      1.6     2.4              1.9
Net Profit                 _____    0.2       0.2      0.5             0.3
Net Profit/Net Worth (%)             8.5     13.6    18.6  __ _  13.0
DSCR                         1.3a'   1.2
Debt/Equity Ratio           low      3.4
lNet Worth/Assets Ratio               19.7              2.5             1.9
Loan documentation requires this to remain above 1.1.
I Loan documentation requires this to remain below 12.
TABLE 10B: PERFORMANCE OF IMPLEUMNTING AGENCIES: 1992
(Rs. Billions)
i ________________________   ICICI   EXIM     BOB   CANARA    SBI      PNB
Total Credit Outstanding             16.2    78.3   85.4              83.5
of wh Term Loans                   14.4    25.9   23.5              27.3
of wh Export Oriented            14.4     2.3    3.Os/             6.2
Net Worth                             4.4     4.9    7.8               4.3
Net Profit                            0.4    1.0    1.6                1.1
Net Profit/Net Worth (e)              9.2    19.2   20.1              25.7
DSCR                                  1.3           ,
Debt/Equity Ratio                     3.6
Net Worth/Asset Ratio                18.0             4.7              2.3
' Extrapolated from the statistic that 12.7% of total credit is export
oriented.



TABLE 11:  USE OF BANK RESOURCES
(in Staff-Weeks)
Stages of Project
Cycle              FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY8B  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93          Total
Through Appraisal            6.2  54.8   8.7                                                           69.7
Appraisal to Board                       68.0   5.3                                                    73.3
Approval
4.4  18.5  19.9   9.4  11.3   7.0  12.0  14.7         107.2
Supervision
Total                        6.2  54.8  76.7   9.6  18.5  19.9   9.4  11.3   7.0  12.0  14.7          250.2
t



TABLE 12: MISSION DATA
Stage of Project      Non,;/    No. of         Speciali-         Days      Over-
Cycle              Yr       Parti-        zation of          in        all                                   Main Issues
cipants    Participants a/    Field    Rating
Preparation                 5/84        5       O.E.E.C.C             22
Appraisalt-ain              8/84        5       O,E,E,C,C             20
APPraisal-Followt up        1/85        3       O,D.E                  4
Supervision 1               2/86        2       O,E                   17         1
2              10/86        3      O,E,C                 14         1       *   Achieving effectiveness.
3               2/87        2      0,0                   11         1       -   Refining Operationat Procedures.
4               8/87        3      O,O,C                 11         2       -   Determining causes for slow disbursements.
5               6/88        5      O,O,E,E,C             17         2       -   oOI to take exchange risk on ICICI sub-loans.
*   Scope to be broadened to provide for more non-engineering sub-
loans.
6 b/           11/88        3      D,E,C                 23         2       -   interest rate of commercial banks' sub-loan to be reduced from 15%
to 14X/13.5%
7 b/           1/90         2      O,E                    9         1       -   Appraising follow-up Exwort Develoanent Project.
8 b/            2/91        3      O,E,C                 16          1      -  Monitoring commitments/disbursements
9 b/            7/91        1      0                     13         2       -   Extending of ctosing date.
10 b/            1/92        1      0                     13         2       -   Extending of closing date.
11 b/            7/92        2      O,F                   16         2       -   PCR data preparation.  Overcommitment of pcb sub-loans.
12 b/           12/9         1      F                     13         1       -   Discussion of draft PCR.
a/  (Sr.) Operations officer - 0;  (Sr.) Economist - E;  Consultant - C;  Financial Analyst - F;  (Dep.) Div. Chiefs - D
b/ Csoibined with appraisal and supervision of follow-up Export Develooment Proiect



- 34 -
TABLE 13: STATUS OF COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS
Agreement                                                               l
Section               Description of Covenant              Status
Project:  Loan No. 2629-IN
2.03 of P.A             ICICI to provide quarterly and
bi-annual project progress
reports of Productivity Fund.        In compliance
4.01 of P.A             ICICI to provide annual audited
accounts of Productivity Fund.       In compliance
2.02 of L.A             Participating Commercial Banks to
provide detailed sub-loan
applications to the World Bank
for approval.                        In compliance
Schedule 4A of L.A.     Participating Commercial Bank to    In compliance
provide quarterly and bi-annual      often with some
project progress reports and         delay
annual audited project accounts.
Schedule 4B of L.A.    EXIM to provide quarterly and bi-
annual project progress reports
and annual project accounts.         In compliance
Project:  Loan No. 2630-In
2.03 of L.A.            ICICI to provide detailed sub-
loan applications to the World       In compliance
Bank for approval.
4.02 of L.A             ICICI to provide annual report
and audited accounts.                In compliance
4.04 of L.A             ICICI to maintain a debt to
equity ratio of not more than
12:1 and a DSCR of at least
1.1:1.                               In compliance



- 3s -
TABLE 14: ICICI SUB-LOANS
Initial                           Final
Authorized             Cancel-   Authorized       Amount
No.      Company Name              Amount    Additline      atlons   Amount         Oisbursed
(USS)      (US$)      (US)       (US)            (US$)
AA 1.01   Hlindustan Allum. Corp        350,000         0          0      350,000              0
AA 1.02   Mahindra and Mahindra      10.931,811         0          0    10.93t,811     10,201t084
88    1   Kirloskar Warner Swasey       470,081         0          0      470,081         367,971
a8    2   Electronics Circuits         078,092    138,317          0      814,409         750.705
88    3   Lakshml Machine Works        652.030          0          0      052,930         625,125
8B    4    Ktrloskar Commine Ltd      1.960,000         0          0     1.9e0,000      1,638,88o
88    5   BPL Systems & Projects        68",862         0          0      6ss,e2          676,029
BB    6   Crompten Greaves, Ltd.        133,602         0          0       133,682        169.65.
8B    7   Roto Pumps & Hydraulic Ltd.   306.625    30,s5s          0      337,224         303.29L
S8    8   Bharat Gears                  500.000         0          0      S00,000         534,305
B8   9   FPinoex Cables Ltd.         3J187,600          0          0     3.117,690      2.789.831
88   10   Patheja Forgings & Auto Parts    51,000o      0      156,927    517,073         498.073
SB   11    Kiockner Windsor India Ltd.  504.000         0          0      504.000         844,190
B8  12   TVS Electronies M. Ltd.       871,282    851.600          0     1.522.862      1,166.657
88   13   WS Industries India Ltd.      863.422         0          0      863,422         54s,a28
88   14   Amfrge IndustrIes Ltd.      1,22s,41e    68.000          0     1,297,41       1,2s8.110
BB   1S   Sajaj Auto Ltd.                24s.3n         0     13,619      235,768         235,758
Be   16   Micropack Ltd.                913,65-         0      3.767      s00.8a8         s00s.0s
88   17   Electronic ConsorL Pvt. Ltd.    1,258,461     0     s9,074     1,105,57       1,106.587
B8   18   Z.F. Steedng Gears            6z.s50          0      7t,85       64,942          s4.942
SB   19   Digia DevIces Ltd.            724,823         0          0      724,823         747,580
8B   20  BSria Erickson (Tools) Ltd.    39,150          0     68.760      3020.36t        320,381
B8   21   Vnkas Genera Carbon           37-s000         0          0      375,000         382.643
98   22   OEN Connectors Ltd.           428,430         0          0      428,430         440.002
88  23   Sharat Gears Ltd.              530,000         0     26.371      6o3,623         503.623
sB   24   Ferro Alloys Corp. Ltd.     3,700,000         0    442,740     3,257.20       3,257,260
SS   25   Tata Engineering & Locmctv   5,053,020        0    118t,71     4,934,304      4.34.304
8B   26   Gabriel India Ltd.          1,846.154         0    822.700     1,023,464        097.039
88   27   Himachal Advanced Circuits   576.712          0          0      S7,71t1         544,681
88   28   Yokagawa Keonics Ltd.         24137tY         0          0      241.7`1         259.164
88   29   Shangrilia Latex industries   694,00*    24s.067         0      843.907         843,967
88   30   Modl Champion Ltd.            502,3550    592.365                     0              0
88   31    Raliis india Ltd.          t.251.046         0   1.51,940                           0
88   32   Tube Investments India      t.70s,407         0    171,094     1,25.L313      1.625,313
88   33    idecon Appliances Ltd.     1,383,3s          0    299,000     1,064,038      1,084,301
BS  34   Modi Oliveti Ltd.              481,46          0    481,450            a              0
88   38   Gujarat Cycles Ltd.           249,33          0     47,931      201.32         201.302
88   36   Andhra Pradesh Power Tools   1,028,450        0   1,025,460           0              0
SB   37   Maruti Koastu Cygndrs PNt.    480,769         0     77.021      403.748         403.748
88   38   Tata Honeywell Pvt            26s,a54         0          0      208.8s4         207,944
88   39   Ganesh Anhydride              69t,343         0          0      691,343         7s50s56
BB   40   Automobile Corp. of GOA Ltd.   1.122005       0          0     1,122,00              0
88   41   Mak Eectronics P. Ltd.        1000    100,600                         0              0
8S   42   Gharda Chemica PvL  Ltd.      329,400         0    320,400            0              0
88   43   Kilobytes India Ltd.          453,000         0    158,818      300,182:        300,182
B8   44   MahendraEng.&Chem.Prod .1,03                  0     92.461     1,11222..      1,112,202
88   45   Invel Transmission Ltd.       588397          0    105,247      461,550;        48,1650
BB   46   TV8 Whirpod Ltd.            1,214,884         0          0     1.214,884      1,156,007
B8   47   Mirc ElectronIs               674.406         0          0       674,485        539,374
88   48   Escort Herlon Ltd.         1t205.             0    795,000      500,340         480,560
88   49   Ashoka Leyland Ltd.         1.9549W           0    251.000     1.703,s60      1.703,445
88   60   David Brown Greaves                           0          0      504,828         601,781
8s   51   Bapl Auto                     356,484         0     33,100      323,294         317,433
88   52   Mysore Kirkwokar            I7.000            0          0     1,22,000       1,423.657
BB   53   SPL Electonics Ltd.         1,823,603         0          0     1,823.636      1,874,127
88   54   Veejay LaksMi Engg. Work Pv   616,284         0          0      615,284         e615284
88   55   Amtrnge Industrtes Ltd.       270,436         0    270,436                   0       0



-36 -
TABLE 14: ICICI SUB-LOANS
Initial                           Final
Authorized             Cancel-   Authorized       Amount
No.      Company Name              Amount    AdditIons      ations   Amount         Disbursed
(USI)      (USS)      (USS)      (USS           (US$)
88   56   BPL Sanyo Tech. Ltd.          589,000         0          0      589.000        ii8S,687
98   57   Ferro Alloys Corp.          3.757,090         0          0     3.767.090      4,048.108
85   88   Bajaj Auto                    425,690         0    137,270      281.420         288.420
38   59   Widia India                   230,000         0          0      230,000         201,474
88   6O   BPL Sanyo Uti & Appliances    1,339,458       0          0     1,339,458      1.612,686
98   61   BajaJ Auto Ltd.             3.67e,707         0          0     3,570,707      2,9t9.392
B3   62   Brakes Indla Ltd.             387,529         0      1,016      38".613         386.613
98   63   Motor Industrtes              180,000         0    180,000            0              0
88   64   Sandvik Asia                  178,70t        0    114,670        64,091          64,001
88   65   Gabriel India                 293.000         0    293,000            0              0
SB   66   Madras Hi-Tech Circuits     1,030,000        17          0     1,030.017      1,030,017
B8   67   Forbes Forbes Campbel Ltd.    326,081         0     80,936      245.71t         248,716
88  e6   India Aluminum                 107,000         0          0      107,000         107.000
iB   69   Datamatics                    85.000          0          0       85,000          83,231
tB  70   Kazem Sunaris Electr. Pvt.     69,230         0          0        09.230          69,000
a9   71   Gaira Gears                  256,797         0          0       256,797         143.710
88   72   Brass Smiths                   3,721          0        280        3.441           3,441
Be   73   Advance Technology Devices    625,000         0          0      625,000        625.000
ZB   74   Fins Un Cirouits             826,000         0           0      825,000         154,837
98   75   Forbes                      1,288,000        0           0     1,288,000      1,263,944
88  76   Baiai Auto                   1.423,293         0          0     1.423,293      1,4S2.420
a8   77   Advance Tech. Oevices         625,000         0          0      628.000              0
ea   78   Advance Tech. Devices        462.906          0          0      452,805         433.028
39   79   Ashok Leyland                 738.000        0           0      738,000              0
s8  80   Parasrampuria Synt           1.468.500        0          0      1,468,500      1,465.638
813  81   Tata Iron & Steel           3,442.000        0          0      3.,442.000       934.075
9B  81A   Sallarpur Industries       .1,809,000        0           0     1.809.000      1,809.000
d     1   Mabttal Industries         t.177,934        0      85.826     1,092.108      1.492.108
-8    2   Punjab Agro Finance         4,000,000        0    406,396      3.53,604-      3,53.604
B     3   Gujarat 8.D. Luggage          410,012        0      11.072      399.841        3S9,941
8     4   Wipro Ltd                    414,078         0          0       414,078        489,502
s     5   Enerpon Technics Co Ltd      344,348         0          0       344,348        344.348
B     6   Mafatlal Ftne SpW &Mfg      12800000         0      36,387     1,243.613      1,243,613
B     7   Garden Silk Mills            218,363     46,414         0       264.777        402,26
8     8   GuJazat Fusion Glass        1,273,203        0    391.980       681,263        881.2S3
8     9   Kaja Ceramics               1,061,211        0          0      1,061,211      1,304,376
8    10   Choksi Tube Co.             2.807,000        0      47,364     2.459.W63      2.469,636
a    11   Asian Peroxddes             2,100,000        0      14,477     2.085.523      2.085,623
8    12   Sldco Leathers Ltd.         1,100000         0    172.753       927.247        927,247
8    13   Mafatal Fine Spg & Mfg        368,811        0    130.53       238,258        238258
S    14   GagWarS Wall Ropes           608.64          0    144.866       363.688        363,688
B    15   Anant Raj Clay Products      682.77         0          0       S82.787        624,314
a    16   Amethl Textiles             3,149,760        0    258.570      2,891,190      4,141,430
8    17   NASA Continental Exporters   583,275    229,815         0                       812.7120
a    18   Kedla Agglamorated Marbles   493,74:         0      39,527      4S4.147:       454.147
8    19   Indian Hotels Co.           1,180,767    43,023         0      1.223.92       1,223,790
e    20   Multi-Arc India Pvt Ltd       610,20         0      81,570      s29,350        529,360
8    21   Hoechst India Ltd             416,32         0      62.049      384,23         354,283
a    22   Madura Coats Ltd              872.197?       C         219      871,978        871,978
B    23  Bmbay Dyeing & Mfr Co         889,389        0          0       856,289         843.087
8    24   Gokak Patel Volkart Ltd       6e3,850         0     82.541      481309          689.002
B    25   HerdllllaO2ddes&Electr.     1,107,6#         0    418.160       689,436         689.430
B    28   Gyan Leather Board Pvt        041ti7         0       2.648      643.023        643,023
B    27   Chanpdany industries Ltd      307,43t        0      43.23       284,196        264,196
a    28   Shrlshma Fine Chem. & Phar    312,78S        0    312.785            0               0
a    29   Kesoram Industrles Ltd      6,500,000   8,000.000        0    13,500,000      5,924,547
B    3o   Shilwara Synthetcs LW         351.494        0      42.424      309.070        309,070



- 37 -
TABLE 14: ICICI SUB-LOANS         .Pae 3 of 3
Initial                           Final
Authorized              Cancel-   Authorized       Amount
No.      Company Name              Amount    Additlions      ations   Amount         Disbursed
(US"       (USS       (USS)-    (US$1            (US$)
B    31   Pharma Surgical Products Ltd    321,700        0    321,700            0               0
B    32   Oriental Granites Pvt         834,302          0    834.302            0               0
B    33   Bakelite Hylam Ltd           1.20,00           0    3S6,000       814.S00        785,697
B    34   XVL India Ltd                1,122,187         0     60.569     1,052,618       1,052.018
8    35    New Era Medicare Ltd         220.183          0          0       229,183        194,408
8    36   Thirumalai Chemicals Ltd     2,751,429         0          0     2,?51,420       2.622.94s
a    37   Armour Chemicals Ltd          239,621          0     60.061      1784,56         17.560
8    38   J.K Industrial Ltd            6ee,5s3          0    6e8.503            0               0
B    39   Gokak Patel Volkart           250,021          0          0      260,021         275.938
B    40   Maharashtra Seamless Ltd     2.082.600         0   2.082.200         400               0
B    41    KlOrloskar Cumrnins Ltd     3a733912          0          0     3.733,912       4.182,680
B    42   Raymond Woolen Mills Ltd     1,086,004         0          0     1,086,094       1,100.704
B    43   Gharda Chemicals Ltd         t,813,472         0          0     1,813,472       1,676.700
B    44   Carona Ltd                   4,17t,481         0   2,316,000    1,8ss,481       1.891,851
8    45   VeeraTreatwood Ltd            427.452r         0     30.268       397,184        397,184
B    46   VXL India Ltd                1,642,1e9         0     24.26e     1,81,900        1,6179000
B    47   The Arvind Mills Ltd         1,921,046         0    875,178     1,045,86        1,045.868
B    48   Int'l Ceramics Ltd            661.011          0    101.750       550.261       5S9,201
B    49   Aro Granite Industres P. Ltd  664,45t          0          0 o     64,451         725,057
B    S0    Grapco Granite Ltd           624,585          0          0      624,58          64.773
B    61    Bombay Dyeing & Mfg Co.      420,000          0          0      420.000         441,980
B    52   Bombay Oyeing & Mfg Co.      1.360,74          0          0     1.360.974       1,354,541
8    53   CenturyTextiles & lnd. Ltd   1,43t.347         0    243,962     1,187,385       1,187.385
B    84   Serum Institute of India Ltd  963,000          0    402.52      660.4s8         560,498
B    55   IG. Petrochemical Ltd        3,000,000         0          0     3,000,000      2,735,373
8    so  .Woolworth India Ltd.      -  :878244           0          0      878,244         922.526
8    67   Mayo Latex India Ltd          264e,7s          0          0      254,705              0
B    58   Hindalco Ind                   78,627                             78,627.         78627
8    59
B    60   Borax Mortari Ltd             46e,000          0     85.751      J79249          370,249
B    e1    Tat Exports Ltd              144,240    274,437          0      418,077         366,269
S IfA   VST Industries                                   0          0                      862,59s
B    62   Mom Granite Pvt Ltd           505,200         0    s05.000          :200              0
B    63    Polar Marmo Agglomorates Lt    451t,70-       0          0      45t,7           480,6e0
B    64   Swiss Health Foods P. Ltd     307,000.         0    11s,600      191,3to         181,310
B    Gs   Bombay Dyeing              1. 1035S185         0          0     1,035,185      1,300,000
5    66   Garware Wall Ropes             81.024    136,269          0      218,193         218.193
B    67   Gokak Patel Volkat            481,054          0      4,783      476,271.        476,271
B    68   AOl Hi-Tech To. ess           107,000          0    107,000            a              0
B    Go   Grapco Granites               4s8,s80         0    489.000                            0
B    70   Arvind Mills                1t985,000          0          0     1,98s000       2,202,5BB
a    71   Chloride Industries Ltd        50.000          0     50.000   -                       0
B    72    Leela Fashions               133.97$          0    133,973            0              0
B    73   Maral Overseas               2780,308   2.839.192         o     5,619,00       610,5s400
B    74   Bombay Dyeing                1,45,040          0    572.680      8o,360          880,360
B    75    Riba Textiles                209,418          0     27.316      182,102         162.102
a    76   MRF Ltd                        701,35          0    168,700      536,658         535,658
B    77   Mafatal Fine Spg & Mgt       2262J02           0          0      262,102         222,500
B    78    Kotharul ndustrial Corp.     778528           0          0     :77852           50,461
B    79    LeatherTrends             * :6t,831           0     61,931            0              0
B    80   Grapco Graphit               1.59,000          0          0     1.66,000,      1,794,017
B    81   Madhamn Marbles              1,oed0,00         0          0  :. .06e000          006,681
B    82    Flex Foods                   840,000          0          0      840,000-        884,310
B    83   Indian Card Clothing           -S000           0        632        4,3eB           4,368
.8    84   Indeutch Scholte     2     2000               0      22,000     ;                     0
B    85   Datamatics                   141,000           0          0      '141,000         94,142
TOTAL                     173,516.304  12.905,350  22004811   164,22,945S    151,410770
al Less unpecified canueatioms equals total authorizatIos of $160.1 mllio
b\ re sum of Inidual figures for disbursement (from ICICI) differs from fiuul MIRD diursement figmre of $154. m
due to exchnge rate cbhags.



- 38 -
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 15: PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANK SUB-LOANS
Initial               Final
Implem.    Authorl2ed    Canel-  Authorized
No.       Name of Project              Bank        Loan Amt      ation    Loan Amt
(SM       (M)         (Sf
B-2.01    Asoo (India) Ltd.            B 0 Baroda     237,018               23,018
B-2.02    Atas Automotive Components    Pot Bar0da    13,316    '38,316t
B-2.03    Bright Brothers              B of Baroda    227.814               227,814.
B-2.04    Fluid Air (India) Ltd.       Bot Saroda     253.78S               2S3,78
9-2.05    SAI Labels (P) Ltd.          B0e Satoda     153.97' 162.576
9-2.06    Super Tex Labels             B of Baroda    130,105               130.108
8-2.07    VIra Traders                 B of aroda   ' 8,420                  88.420
B-2.08    India Diamond Products       B Of Baroda     S4,000      6,200     77.800
9-2.09    Sundek India (P) Ltd.        8 of Saroda    118.552    118,562          0
B-2.10    Kansal Knitwear              8 of Baroda    t131.37     89,334     42.63
B-2.11    Nanav Ati Diamond Ind. Lid.  Bet Sadoda      -80,844                O,844
B-2.12    Navairam Agro Mach. Ltd.     B of8aroda s   7se20
9-2.13    BalaJ Dished Ends Ltd.       B of Baroda     85,000
9-4.14    Austing Engineering Co.      8 of 8aroda     24 Ui
8-2.15    Sanghvi and Sons             8 of 8aroda     7t,429
8-2.16    PadhukaShoes(P) Ltd.         8otlaSoda      100,00                100,00
9-2.17    RoslhI Leather               B of Baroda    8iS000                 80
9-2.18    Algamation Repoo Ltd.        9 of Baroda  -158,000       5,555     5.445
8-2.19    Te4hno Leather Produts       a ot Baroda     90,00Q '0.00
8-2.20    Addison Co. Ltd.             8 of Baroda    340,975               340,7
9-2.21    Radhika iinings Pvt Ld.      B ofBaroda    '3-21.750    321,750  .
9-2.22    Synthetic Mouiders Ltd.      B of Baroda    275,00               27.0
9-2.23    Sabina Woollen Mills Ltd.    aOtf Baroda   ' 234,600             ;    0
9-2.24    Uniftro lnternational Ltd.   S of Baroda    20.2,500
9-2.26    BhlW Hussain                 B of Siroda   .22,500            ,. *12.500
8-2.26    Saravanabhava Mills P. Ltd.  8 of Baroda     53,000                   0
8-2.27    Soivay Be Animal Health Ltd.  B of Baroda    .38,0031o000
B-2.28    GuratDyestutf                aot Baroda     1698,000    198,000     .  0
B-2.29    Dimexon                      B o Baroda     120.000           Z  120,00
8-2.30    Rainkant and Sons            BoBf aroda   .49.000    149.000          0
B-2.31    PRenzTalbros Ltd.            Bof Baroda     106,000               160
9-2.32    Sahil Fabrics                B of Baroda    151.800               151,80
B-2.33    Menu High Tech               B of Baroda    230.400'              230400
B-2.34    Vimoni Optics                B of Baroda     70.',;              '70.00 
9-2.35    Texport TextIles             B of Baroda    400.000              400
A-2.01    India Nippon Eiectricais        of Baroda   480,00
A-2.02    CNC Machining Coente           Of Baroda    53306      533.060
A4-Z03    Hi-Tech Ancillaries Ltd.     BofBaroda      420,000    290.000 ,,,,000
A-2.04    Eiectrn India Ltd.          B of Baroda   0DOO
A-2.0S    Hauita Looks Ltd.           B of Baroda     279,0W0               *  *
A-2.06    Harita Locks Ltd.           8 of Baroda      5,                 . 367,000
A-2.07    Jalex Connector Systems Ltd.    B of Baroda  500,000,   82,442     ,
A-lOS    Kirosiar systems Ltd.        B of Baroda     284', 183             *1-3
A-QLO     Pearl Polymer PvL Ltd.      8 of Baroda    '34,154            , 04.154
A-LIO    Menon Pistons Ltd.           B of saroda     212.000                ,
A-2.L1    Paam Agro P. Ld.            B of Baroda  1U1.0800297    185.655    *1,4
A-L12     RelFn Talbros Pv. Ltd.       B of soda  -'300,67 m;300
A-2.13    Yercaud Granites Ltd.       B of Baroda     354,255    105,670
A-2.14    Jaii ausha Industries Ltd.  B of Baroda     440.123               44,123
A-2.15    Aro Granites IndustrIesi Ltd.  B of Baroda    1.18,000       : 1,185,0O0
A-2.16    Rama Vision Ltd.            B of Saroda    10,000    493,615    755,385
A-L17    SrividyaGrantteTie Exp.      BotBaroda    1,000,000               1,000,000
A-2.18    Sundek India Ltd.           8 of Baroda     266,000               286,000
A-2.19    Ohres Bharath Ltd.          B of Baroda     260,000               260.000
A-2.20    Premier Granites Ltd.       8 of 8aroda     720,000               720,000
A-2.21    Jalsw  Granties Ltd.        B o tBaroda     590,000               590,000
A-2.22    Pacific Granties Ltd.       B of Baroda     775.000               776.000



- 39 -
Pace 2 of 6
TABLE 1C: PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANK SUB-LOANS
Initial               Final
Implem.    Authorized    Cancel-  Authorized
No.       Name of Project               Bank        Loan Amt      ation    Loan Amt
($M)       (SM)       (SM)
A-2.23    Yuil Measure India Ltd.      B of Baroda    8256960    825,960          0
A-2.24    NBM Granites P. Ltd.         B of Baroda    477,000    477,000          0
A-2.25    Bcot New Era Technologies   B ot Batoda    807,000                807.000
A-2.26    Inland Dataforms             B of Baroda    355670                365,570
A-2.7    Mohan Leather                 B ot Baroda    571,000                571,000
A-2.28    Pearl Polymers               B of Baroda    725,000                725,000
A-2.29    Leela Fashions               B of Baroda     350,000    350.000         0
A-2.30    ODrilcos India Ltd.          B of Baroda    275,000    275,000          0
A-2.31    Seasons Texdles Ltd.            do Baroda   430.000    436.000          0
A-2.32    Phoenix Overseas             B of Baroda    625.600                626,600
A-2.33    Precision Electronics        8 of Baroda    699,821    699,821          0
A-2.34    Jai Kaushal Industries Ltd   B of Saroda    346,200                346,200
A-2.35    Addison Jewery               S of Baroda    283.000                283,000
A-2.36    Grapco Granites              B of Baroda    1,000.000            1.000,000
A-2.37    National Leather             B of Baroda    721,000                721.000
A-2.38    Rishiroop Leather               of Baroda    1,000,000           1,000,000
A-2.39    Gujarat Poly-Avx Eiectr.     S of Baroda    276,52f    275.525          0
A-3.01    Rewdale Precision Tools Ltd.  Canara B.     300,000     20,780    279.220
A-3.02    Easy Track India Ltd.        Canara B.      500,000    500,000          0
A-3.03    Advance Technology Devices   Canara S.      500,000    418,600      81,500
A-3.04    Precision Equipments         Canara B.      423,000    123,000    300,000
A-3.05    Fuller KOP Ltd.              Canara B.      390,000                390.000
A-3.06    Multi Arc (India) Ltd.       Canara 8.      312,000      3,000    309,000
A-3.07    Sieflex Auto. & Robotics Co.  Canara S.     43,600    200,300    268,200
A-3.08    Precision Rubber Ind. Ltd.   Canara B.      323,000    269,937      53.03
A-3.09    Delco Precitone Jewellers.   Canara S.      625,000    626,000      :   0
A-3.10    Flat Product Equipment Ltd.  Canara S.      458,908                468,908
A-3.11    S.K. Senjan Chettiar & Sons  Canara B       303,333     78,967    226,386
A-3.12    Shangrila Latex Ind. Ltd.    Canara B.     1,202,855     4,058   1,198,797
A-3.13    Frontilne Latex Products     Canara B.      515,000                615,000
A-3.14    Universal Gloves Pvt Ltd.    Canara S.      256,300                256,300
A-3.15    Alpha Flock (India) Ltd.     Canaua B.      287,861      1.647    286,214
A-3.10    Doorvani Cables P. Ltd.      Canara B.      678,125    177,231    50.894
A-3.17    Saket India Ltd.             Canara B.     1,000,000             1,000,000
A-3.18    Akar Tools Pvt. Ltd.         Canara B.      303,030                303,030
A-3.19    Grapco Granites              Canara S.      642,000                642.000
A-320     Rama Vtison Ltd.             Canara B.      847,625    152,450    695,175
A-3.21    M S Shoes East Ltd.          Canara B.      877,600                877.500
A-3.22    Modi-Olivetti                Canaa B.       350,000    350,000          0
A-3.23    Kesar Marble & Granite Ltd.  Canara 8.       661.000    561,000         0
A-3.24    Rajasthan Pednnl Ltd.        Canwa 8.       483,000                483.000
A-3.25    Luxor Pen Company            Canara B.      340,000    135,784    204,216
A-3.26    Super Byteron System Ltd.    Canara B.      345,000    229,500    115,500
A-3.27    Phoenix Electric Pvt. Ltd.   CanaraB.       ee6.60,0               860oo0
A-3.28    Slibcon Valley Technology    Canara S.      605,000     78,319    526.681
A-3.29    Muti Arc Pvt. Ltd.           Canara B.      671,420    350,000    221,429
A-3.30    Sumeet Research & Holdings   Canaua B.      400,000    275,000    125,000
A-3.31    Odrilcos India Ltd.          Canara S.      275,000                276,000
A-3.32    Seasons Textiles Ltd.        Canaa B.       436,000                436,000
A-3.33    Ramildas Chemicals           Canaa S.       309,200                399,200
A-3.34    Peal Shoes                   Canara S.      304,160                304,160
A-3.36    Rameo Super Leather          Canaa B.       256.717                256.717
A-3.30    Vardhman Spinning Gen. Mills   Canara S.   1,000,000             1,000,000
B-3.01    Gears & Transmlisdons        Canam S.        80,000                 80,000
-3.02    Alpump P. Ltd.                Cantsa B.       63,420                 63.420
B-3.03    Auto Lamps Ltd.              Canara 8.       90,000      4,000      86,000



- 40 -
Pacre 3 of 6
TABLE 15: PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANK SUB-LOANS
Initial               Final
Implem.    Authorized    Cancel-  Authorized
No.       Name of Project               Bank        Loan Amt      ation    Loan Amt
($M)       (SMI)     (SM)
B-3.04    Gupta Machine Tools Ltd.     Canara B.       130.000     7,600    122,400
B-3.05    Matrix Electronics Pvt. Ltd.  Canara B.      93,000     93,000          0
B-3.06    Ultra Tek Oevices Pvt. Ltd.  Canara B.       116,10i    102.600     *a,300
B-3.07    Vlswam India Steels          Canara 8.        76,460     8,259      71.201
8-3.08    Ultrafilter (India) Ltd.     Canara B.      215.000    132,692      82,308
B-3.09    Gujarat Vacuum Coaters Ltd.  Canara B.       205,000     79,898    125,102
B-3.10    Lathia Rubber Maufact. Co.   Canara B.      219,94       17.021    202.925
9-3.11    Meko Instruments Pvt. Ltd.   Canara B.       61,000                 51,000
B-3.12    Enginemates Heat Tranfer     Cansar B.       183,000     38,663    147,437
B-3.13    Merlno Leathers Pvt. Ltd.    Canara B.       107,000    25.148      81,854
8-3.14    KR. Collers Ltd.             Canara B.       77,000      19,822     57,178
B-3.15    Silver Shoes Pvt. Ltd.       Canara 8.       126,922    32,068      94.8S4
B-3.16    Sanghavl Tips                Canara B.       133,633               133,S33
8-317    Ashwini Eng. Industries       Canara B.       79,923      13,299     66,624
-3.18    Minda Sitch Auto Ud.          Canara B.      225,597                225,597
9-3.19    GMT Metrolog Pvt. Ltd.       Canara B.       86,326     88,326          0
8-3.20    Chandarl Exports Pvt. Ltd.   Canara B.       153,431    37,579    115,862
83.21     Admiral Shoes                Canara 8.      250,000     24,184    225,816
8-3.22    Universal Radiators Ltd.     Canara B.      235,626                235,628
9-3.23    Wadhwa Brothers Engineering    Canara B.     91,375                 91,375
9-3.24    Mathur & Co.                 Canara 8.       76,419                75.419
8-3.25    Shinbu Inports & Exports     Canara 8.      214,625    214,625          0
8=3.26    Autolec Industties Ld.       Canatra B.     280,500                200,500
8-3.27    Davendra Exports Pvt. Ltd.   Canara S.       142,000    22,495    119,505
8-3.28    Gomukl Charma Kendra         Canara B.      228000       10,981    217.019
s-3.29    Ind Inst of Cond. Monitoring  Canara 8.      62e200     82,200          0
8-.30    Sourthem Industrials          Canara B.       114,000               114,000
8-3.31    Gokaldas Images              Canara S.       110,000     7,233    102,767
83.32    Next Fashion Creators         Canara B.       59,68e      2,586      57.100
3-3.33    Mlnar Enterprises            Canara 9.       55,000                 55.000
94.a24    Model Footwas PvL Ltd.       Canara B.       55,000                55,000
B-3.35    Venus Engg. Industries       Canara B.       73,000                73,000
8-3.36    Fotward Leather Co.          Canara S.       90,000      8,404      81,50s
8-3.37    GaJa Shoes                   Canara S.       97,050      17,531    79,518
B-3.38    Toshl Auto Ind. Pvt. Ltd.    Canara S.       60,000                60.0o0
8-3.39    Asma Exports                 Canata S.       61,5w0                 51,500
B-3.40    Maya Garments                Canara B.       60,000     38,883      21.117
9-3.41    viral Overseas               Canars S.       83.050      13,535    09,515
8-3.42    Vaish Industries             Canara B.       54,400                 54,400
8-3.43    Beiersdorf                   Canara 8.      240,000      57,504    182,496
B-3.44    Tacjo                        Canara B.       53,800                 53,800
B-3.45    Standard Garments House      Canaua B.       110,000    85,800      24200
B-3.48    Golla Instruments P. Ltd.    Canara 8.       57,100                S7.100
B-3.47    Sushruta Eloma               Canara B.       58,000                 68,000
B-3.48    High Images                  Canara S.       224,190               224,190
8-3.49    Shrlram Mobices              Canars B.      288.000                286,000
8-3.50    Torrey Auto Industres        Canara S.       104,000    104,000         0
B-3.51    Gorawara Eletronics          Canara 8.      220.718                220,718
8-3.52    Incoway                      CanaraB.        81,250                81250
B-3.53    Madras Shoes Accessories     Canara 8.        89,000              059.000
8-3.54    Ousthalar App Exports        Canara B.       110,775               1to,775
B-3.55    Alfab Apparel                Canara S.       107,000               107,000
B-3.59    Edel Weiss                   Canara B.      203,240                293,240
9-3.57    Indian Connecton             Canara B.       151,420               161,420
B-3.58    Gokuldas Images              Canara B.       117,848               117,848
Precision Electronics       Canara B.       400,000               400.000



- 41 -
Paae- 4 Qf 6f
TABLE 15: PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANK SUB-LOANS
Initial              Final
Implem.    Authorized    Cancel-  Authorized
No.       Name of Project              Bank        Loan Ant      ation    Loan Amt
(SM)      (SM)        (S
A-4.01    Shangrila Latex Ind. Ltd.   P.Nl.B.         594,000    594,000         0
A-4.02    Srlyans Knitwear            P.N.B.          26e.000    108,910    156.190
A-4.03    Aminson Ltd.                P.N.B.          355,430    259,714     95,718
A-4.04    White House Process         P.N.B.          754,290               754,290
A-4.0S    Lberty Enterprise           P.N.S.          320,000               320,000
A-4.06    Shankar Rao Mohiti S.S.G.   P.N.B.        1,142.850    142,857     999.903
A-4.07    Sural Diamonds              P.N.S.          571.500     37,486    534.014
A-4.08    Nova lectro Magnetics       P.N.B.          635,000               696,000
8-4.01    Super House Ltd.            P.N.8.           85,S86     85,966         0
8-4.02    Shoes Ltd.                  P.N.B.           74,305                74,305
5-4.03    Patheja Forging & Auto Parts  P.N.B.        193,000    W6,286    126,714
8-4.04    Auroknit Textiles Pvt. Ltd.  P.N.B.         262,000    262,000         0
B-4.05    Sara Serices & Eng. Ltd.    P.N.B.           80,830     80,630         0
8-4.06    LWS Knitware                P N.B.           77,603                77.603
8-4.07    Mirza Tanners                P.N.B.         120,500               120,500
8-4.08    Lady London Exporter        P.N.B.          105,828    105,828         0
8-4.09    Centwrin Hosiery Mills      P.N.8.          135,000               135.000
B-4.10    Aminsons Ltd.               P.N.8.           58.000                58,000
B-4.11    SmartsPivt.Ud.              P.N.B.          111,000               111,000
9-4.12    Jailowal Leathers Pvt. Ltd.  P.N.B.          86,000                86,000
B-4.13    Mlrza Tanners Pvt. Ltd.     P.N.B.          180,000               189,000
8-4.14    Super Garments Pvt. Ltd.    P.N.8.           39,000                39.000
B-4.15    M.A.. Exports               P.N.8.          133,000               133,000
8-4.16    M.S.H. Intemational         P.N.B.           83,000                83,000
B-4.17    Rockmnan Cycle Industries   P.N.B.          461,000               481,000
84.18    Roger Exports                 P.N.B.          50.000                    0
A-8.01    Indrad Auto Components Ltd.    S.B.I.       384,616               384,e16
A-=.02    Shanti Gears Ltd.           S.B.I.          400,000               400,000
A-S.03    M.S. Chawla &Co.            8.B.1.          329.231               329,231
A=5.04    Glowtronics Ltd.            S.B.I.          402,260               40220
A-5.05    Aicro Pack Ltd.            S.B.I.          530,000               530,000
A-6.06    Kanorla Alkalis & Plastics  S.B.I.          275,000               275,000
A-5.07    Electronic Circuits Ltd.    8.B.I.          276.923               276,923
A-.08    Simplex Engg. & Foundry Ltd.    S.B.I.       363.000               363.000
A-5.09    Banco Aluminium Ltd.        8.B.I.          590,000               500,000
A-5.10    Amphetronix Ltd.            8.B.I.          465.923               48S 923
A8.11    Florind Shoes Ld.            S.B.I.          662,768               662.768
A-5.12    Farida Classic Shoe Ltd.    S.B.I.          341,750               341,750
A-5.13    Shafeeq Shameel &Co.        S8..1.          321,000               321,000
A-5.14    Simplex Castings Pvt. Ltd.  S.B.I.        1,000,000             1,000,000
A-5.15    Stovec Industries Ltd.      S.B.I.          511.724               511,724
A s-.16    Amphetronix Ltd.           8.B.I.          674.470               674,470
A-5.17    Wonder Granites Ltd.        8.B.I.          382,300               352,300
As5.18    Grapco Granites Ltd.        S.B.I.          670,000               670,000
A-5.19    Bakhtewa Singh SBlakrishnan    8B.I.        460.400               460,400
A-5.20    Unaks MIcroelectronlcs       8.B.I.         480,000               400.000
A-G1    8PL Electronics Ltd.          S.B.I.        1,000.000             4,000,000
A-5.22    India Infusion Ltd.          8.B.i.         438,481               3398,41
A-5.23    Unlco Leather                S.B.I.         352,900               352,900
A-5.24    Madhu Minerals Trading Co.  S.B.I.          630,000               530.000
A-G.26    Jihing Engineering          S.B.I.          273.000               273,000
As.26    Amman GranItes               S.B.I.          415,800             :416800
A-..27    Unlject Needies             8.B.1.          264,000               284,000
A-528    Lakhanpal Ltd.               S.B.I.          27.00W                279,000
A-529    Punch Uoyd Pt Ltd.           8.B.I.          262,000               262.000
A-5.30    Asia Tobacco Co.            S.B.I.          258,000               265.000



- 42 -
TABLE 16: PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANK SUB-LOANS
Initial               Finea
Implem.    Authorized    Cancel-  Authorized
No.       Name of Projet               Bank        Loan Amt      aton    Loan Amt
(S)        I(SM)      ()
A-5.31    London Rubber               8.B.I.         33110W0                33,00
A-6.32    Uberty Qranltes             S.B.I.        1,Q00.000             1,000.000
A-5.33    Oham Texile Miles            8.19..         512,000                8,oo000
A-5.34    Charminar Granites          S.B.I.        1,000,000             1.000,000
A-5.35    Motoola Blue Star Pvt. Ltd.  S.8.1.        460,000                45000
A-5.36    Hl-0 Electronics            8.B.I.         $8U.000                848,000
A-5.37    Nsttur Techn. Training Fndtn    S.B.I.     082,000                "2,000
A-5.38    Baby Marine Fishees         S.B.I.          *69000                5o
A-5.38    Cosoms Watch lndusry        SB.I.          385,S000               38.000
A-5.40    Interraft Sourth Epos       8B.1.          280*00                J2OA.O
A-6.41    Hartron Networs Ltd.        SB.I.           am-Om                 370,000
A-6.42    Keonics Penta SemiConductors   8S.9..      450,000                460,00
B-6.01    Mloropack Ltd.              SB.I.           225,009               2290
8-5.02    Haryana Auto Cading Ltd.   S..I.           108,000               108.000Q
B-8.03    Roadmaster Steel Strips Ltd.  8.B.I.        16,231                160231
8-5.04    Vibromech Engineers P. Ld.  8B.I.           7t.306                 7108
6-.08    A.S. Controls Ltd.           8.B.I.          28462                 29842
86-.06    Sarawati Engineering Ltd.   S.B.I.        - 024                     *
98.07    Sadan Tool Room Pvt Ltd.     SB.I.           764                   76*4
8-508     ATL India Ltd.              S.B.I.        -146,000Q               40.00
9-8.09    Southern Pine & Products    8.9.1.          134.462               138,462
9-6.10    India Radlators Lid.        SB.I.           7V.001                 70
9.4.11    Beekay Engg. Corp. BhIlai   S.B.I.       .  2.009                20*,000
9S-.12    Prmall Wallace Ltd.811*                                         211,331
8-8.13    Pet industria Consumer      SB.I.           184050                139,000
B-8.14    Indian Navigation Co.       S.I.            111.000 B11.00
9-6.18    United Shoe Co.             S.B.I.       ;     0                 *32,0t
8-8.16    Nivo Controls Pt. Ltd.      8B.I.            00*00                 60*00
B-5.17    Analkar Shoes Co. Pvt. Ltd.  8.8.1.         214*4                 214,00
84.18    Hyderabad Dies               S.8.1.           5656                    ,
94.19    Cassy Leather Co.            8.B.I.          114.51*              -1451
84.20    Slvaprakash                  8.BI.       ;;                        166,850
8-5.21    Esee EngIneers              S.B.I.          215,38o               215.380
0-6.22    8. Kobashl Automdtivs       S.8.1.          18423             : 843
B-8.23    Kobashi Machine Tools Ltd.  8.8.1. I0,0                           163150
8-8.24    Steenivas ' Co. Ltd.        S.B.I.          72,07a                 72071
84.28     Hlndustan Marbles P. Ltd.   S.8.1.         20.585               ;20.615
8S4.26    Sewn HilExport Ltd.         S.8.1.      : 2 :                     227*52
84.27    Keonlos Magnavison Computer  S.B.I.      :: 1630                   186.620
84.28    Romar Fashions               8.B.I.          S20                    3240
846.20    Star International          S.B.I.          14100                 t43.100
84.30    ShoelIne                     8.B.I.          47,2                   67.772
84.31    Prav Eeotro Spark P. Ltd.    8.B.I.          1                     179,300,
64.32    Alphageo India P. Ltd.       S8.1.           100,000               100,000
B-6.33    Hindustan Marbles            8.8.1.         t22.00Q               1220
B-5.36    B.N.T. Selectionp           8.B.1..                     72,
8-.38    Shaanshl Farm Care Ltd.      8.BJ.                                    ,
8-5.37    sevlaCioults                8...            1                      5
B4.38     Knit Exports                8.8.1.          1* 
B4.39    ShaatBattry Mtg.             8.8.1.     .                             20
84.40    Eten Chrome Tannmng Corp.   &8.51.            Za12
B-.41    super Tannemry . L.8.                   *a;                         61.0. e
8-5.42    Anbatur Cloting Co. Ltd.    8.81.        6- *:                   :3.80
B-6.43    Candor Watch Cases           8.B.I.                               U 147*
84.44    Hyrodyn Pivate Lid.          8.81. 1.                              186*00
8-6.45    84.8. Knittn Corp.          8J.1.         ' :00                  51000



- 43 -
Page 6 of 6
TABLE 15: PARTICIPATING COMMERCIAL BANK SUB-LOANS
Initial               Final
Implem.    Authorized    Cancel-  Authorized
No.'      Name of Projet                Bank       Loan Amt       atUon    Loan Amt
(SM)       (SM)       (SM)
84.47    Diner Hosiery Mule Pvt        8..1.           81,000                 81.000
B45.4a    Prlngal Knitweur             8.E.I.          82,300                82.300
84.49    Nagee Hosiery Exports Ltd.    8.B.I.         187.000                157,000
B14.0     Ptel Exports                 SB.I.          143,300                143,300
84.51     Sager Springs Pvt. Ltd.      8.B.I.          71.500                 71,500
8-5.2    ATL India Ltd.                S.0.1.         182.000                182,000
B".53    Rolcon Engineedng Co. Ltd.    s.8.1.         138,S00               138.500
4.64    Rabla Leather lndusbes         8.0.1.         164.600               164,600
54.55    Turbo Energy Ltd.             8.B.I.         152,000                152.000
84.W      Punjab Wads PtL Ltd.         S.5..          150.000                150.000
8-.57    DocAn Desinge India Ltd.      S.B.I.      : 27;000                 227,000
845       Torrent-Medi Systems ltd.    S.8.1.          78.000                7,0000
B3.       Nall Oarion Granite Ltd.     8.8.1.          58,000                56.00
04.60     B.P. Timber Products P. Ltd.  &B.I.         1481000                181.000
8-5.61    Procedon Campaid Moulding    S8.1.       -     .000                 53.000
8-6.2    Toyama EbetonIcs              8.8.l       ...000                    54.000
5-5463    Namasthe Leather Garments    8B.I.       '  8.00                   182,000
84.e4    Naser Ball Glows Pvt Ltd.     8..I. 1S0500
8".65    Arind Pvt Ltd.                &B.I.      ;               145,000
84.66    NMZ Shoes P. Ltd.             8.8.1.           r.                   107,000
-6.67    RA Spinning Mule PvL         S8..1.           64,00                 64,00
5,-5.6    M.SAM. Md. Ibrahim PNL       8.8.1.           0 .io,o .000  .0.000
845.6     Manral Jewers Ltd.           8..I.        : 15000                t75,000
84.70    Jogcta Wolilen Mils Pet       8 B.I.         100.000                100.000
84.71    Sportslng Knitwe              8.8.1.                               133.300
5-572  ilghtech PlaSeos                8B.I.    -      -138.000             138,000
34.73    Sagar Polypack Pet Lid.       8.8.1I.                              244.000
4.74    Anand Sulag Pet Ltd.           &8.1.          248.000               249,000
84.75    Advance Technology Deis       S8..1.         1,000                 180000
34.76     Gupta Garments               8.8.1.         21500                 215.000
84.77    Kantnihi Chotala and Co.      8.8.1.          373000
8-5.79    RGPExportmrs                  B.I.       :10000                   110.000
W.80    Rubber Products                8B.I.           600 e0o000
84.81    Prem Printing Press           8.B.I.          80,000                80o,0o
84.82     Poonsy Footwears Pvt.        &B.I.: 247.000                       247,00
8-5.83    Ambassador Trading & lmy.    8.B.I.        12,0                   120,000
84.54    Turboteh          &.B.I.                                           130,000
92.081,778  13,476,432  78.556,34.



- 44 -
Pa"e I of 4
TABLE 16: EXIM BANK EMF GRANTS
Authorized   Undlab Sal   Time to
Total   IBRD        (Cost       final
No.        Company Name                    sector      Type   Sales  Grant Amt   Underrun)   Disbursement
(Rps M)   (US$)     (USS        (Mnths)
TA-7.01     Irloeer Brother Ltd.          Engines     EXP               S0,000                  31
TA-7.02    Kar Mobiles Ltd.                Auto parts   EXP              17,000                   4
TA-7.03    Thermax Private Ltd.            Chemicalc   NEW     -         5e,000     7.222        29
TA-t.04    8 & S ConsuLtants Pvt. Ltd.     Software    NEW               14,080                   3
TA-7.05    Eicher Gooderath Ltd.           Auto parts   NEW       3      50,000     11,435       43
TA-7.05    Inoss Consultants Pvt. Ltd.     Software    EXP       55      35,615        57        24
TA-T.07    Sundaram Abex Ltd.              Auto parts   EXP      173     24.595    39.763         2
TA-7.08    Enalelds India Ltd.             Vehicles    NEW      S13    111685       48.667        9
TA-7.09    Advent Computer Serices Ltd.    Software    DIV        S      17.875      4.053        6
TA-7.10    Bakal Steels Ltd.                                          CANCELED
TA-7.11    Fine Mobiles Parts Pvt. Ltd.    Auto parts   NEW      13      25,000     16.035       tt
TA-?.12    Ingersd Rand India Ltd.         Engines     EXP      1249     41.8f5                  13
TA-T.13    Bharat Gears Ltd.               Auto parts   EXP     594      43,950     2.e93        16
TA-7.14    Slvanandha Steels Ltd.          Castings    NEW       137     38.527     11.199       25
TA-7.16    Future Software Pvt. Ltd.       Software    NEW        2      31,260     5.508        48
TA-7.18    General Optics (Asia) Ltd.      Mach Tools  NEW       14      25.000     e,468        22
TA-T.17    Wheele India Ltd.               Auto parts  *EXP      156     8,2`19    44.396        13
TA-7.18    Sundaram Clayton Ltd.           Auto parts   NEW     529    103,7t9    70.108         45
TA-7.19    United Wheels P. Ltd.           Bicycles    EXP               57.500    37.680        16
TA-7.20    Samco Metals and Alloys Ltd.    Castings    NEW       51      29.802       420        34
TA-7.21    Tabros Auto Components Ltd.     Auto parts   NEW     202      33,825    22,385        11
TA-7.22    Prcsison Tranematic Devices     Auto parts   NEW               8.250                  22
TA-T.23    Tata Eng. & Locomotive Co.      Software    NEW       25    275,000     10,819        12
TA-7.24    Widia India Ltd.                Mach Tools  OlV      793    101.257    31.576         51
TA-7.5    Tata&Consultancy Sevices         Software    DNV     1031      50.697     1,380        34
TA-UO      Worthington Pump India Ltd.     Pumps       NEW      211      45,971    18,164        22
TA-JTn      (lurlosk Pneumaic Co. Ltd.     Gears       EXP      750      50,000    18,897        19
TA-T.28    Premier Instruments & Controls  Auto parts   NEW              33,771                  -3
TA-7.29    Data Software Research Co.      Software    NEW       27      32.450    23,965         7
TA-7.30    Spa Software Pvt. Ltd.          Software    NEW        1      20,000       864        27
TA-T.31    TSG Consultants P. Ltd.         Software    NEW               49,842    31.823        i5
TA-7.32    lOrloskar Oil Engines           Engines     EXP              115,533                  27
TA-? 33    Lucas Tv Ltd.                                              CANCELED
TA-7.34    Thermax Prvate Ltd.             Software    NEW       68, 9a,000        10.547        20
TA-7.3S    Tube inv. Cycles of India       Bicycles    DIV     1400      40,000     1,900        33
TA-7.?1    Avon Cycles Ltd.                Bicycles    DIV      924    121.500                   46
TA-7Ti     Mysore lrlokar Ltd.             Mach Tools  CIV      680    209.01e    67,360          6
TA-7.38    Reed Relays & EQectr. (India)   Switches    EXP       40      46,834    39.254         3
TA-7.39    United Eng. Works               Auto Parts   NEW              28.275                  1S
TA-?.40    Indo-Schattle Auto Parts Ltd.   Auto pants   DIV       7      33.250     1,345        42
TA-7.41    Usha Ismal Ltd.                 Hand Tools  NEW       63      4S.800    21.908         8
TA-7.42    Era 2ectronbs India Ltd.        Software    NEW        1      10.440     3,390        -1
TA-7.43    Needle Inds. Pt Ltd.            Kn.Needies  EXP      145    100,000    34,827         19
TA-7.44    Eastman Inds.                   Bicycles    DIV     2070    177,000    60,84         27
TA-7.45    Kelrwal Iron and Steel Works    Forgings    EXP       98      97,500    15,030        44
TA-T.46    Brakes India Ltd.               Auto parts   EXP    1173    190,758    36,933         25
TA-7.47    Ocm Ud.                         Software    NEW      719    125,000                   45
TA-7.48    Ergo Software Systems Ltd.      Software    NEW        8      63,000     9.153        12
TA-TA.4    IndlanOrgenlo Chemicals Ltd.    Software    NEW               62.963                   4
TA-7.5     Unifero Intl Ltd.               Castings                      il,798
TA-t.51    VldyutMetallcs Ltd.             Bladee      DIV      245    223.750      1.475          9,
TA-TAt     ApplIed Computer Science Orgn.    Software    NEW             17,378
TA-7.53    Kasbah Systems Software         Software    NEW        1       3,948     6,125       -1O
TA-7T4    Surd Computers P. Ltd.           Software    NEW        4   .33,333       2,090        38
TA-TM5     Autolite L ltd.                 Auto parts   EXP      72      50,000     4,576        II
TA-7.T    EUfoge Ltd.                      Forgings    NJEW     107       8,160                  13
TA-t7A    Interfit India Ltd.                                         CANCELED
TA-T.A     Vibremech Engineers P. Ltd.     Auto pats   NEW       27      22,8601                 3
TA-7.59    Sst4s                           Castings    NEW       137     50,000     15.502       12



- 45 -
Paue 2 of 4
TABLE 1.O EXIM SANK EMF GRANTS
Authorized   Undlab Sal   Time to
Total   ISRO        (Cost        final
No.         Company Name                    sectot      Tyne   Sale   Grant Amt   Underrun)  Disbursement
(Rpe Ml   (US)       (USS)       (Mnths)
TA-Y.eo    Stanford Business Software       Software    NEW         1      1,250        980       -11
TA-7.61    Tata Engineering & Locomotive Co.  Vehicles    NEW            t75lo0      60,451         3
TA-7.e2    Bhana Gears Ltd.                 Auto parts   EXP             105,000                    4
TA-7.l3    Klloskar Oroa                    Engines     EXP              103.750    30,490         42
TA-7.64    East India Hotels Ltd.           Software    NEW        1    116,3        52,448       42
TA-7.65    Indcham Ltd.                     Software    EXP      200      61,881     25,663        38
TA-7.68    Malni Precision Products         Mach Toole  EXP       21      67.86       a,786         e
TA-7.67    Lg Balakriahnan                  Auto parts   EXP     372      s3.s6o      2,270        34
TA-7.68    Best and Cronpton                Pumps       EXP       132     03,e82     52.500        22
TA-7.60    Software Reearch Group           Software    NEW        2   - 10.549       5.732         2
TA-7.70    Wipro lnormatlon Tech Ltd.       C.Hafdware  NEW      I636     41,866     41,688        10
TA-7.71    Autolso Industdre P. Ltd.        Auto parts   EXP      148     43.88B      6,336        34
TA-7.72    STP Ltd.                         Software    NEW      410      27.0        2.089        -2
TA-7.73    Ventura Data System P. Ltd.      Softwae    NEW         3       5.208      5.247       -4
TA-7.74     Elvee Exporta                   Mach Tools  NEW        2      42.073      1,679        1 2
TA-7.75    SPA Computers Ltd.               Softwae               25  CANCELED
TA-7.76    Technocrat Industies             Drum Pants  DIV      108      44.750      2,022         5
TA-7.77    Baker Mercer I Pvt. Ltd.         Mach Tools  NEW       38      21.250      3.076        -3
TA-7.78    Mascon Techn. Senrces Ltd.       Software    NEW       21       i,088      2,337       -a
TA-7.79    Kasbah Systems Software          Software    NEW              -.000                   -t1
TX-7.80    Krlsh Brown Welding P. Ltd.      Welding    'NEW        3      2800,       7.817        27
TA-7.81    Chika Ltd.                                                  CANCELED
TA-7.82    Sundram Fasteners Ltd.           Auto pats   NEW      1079   n00.;          742         24
TA-7.83    Sundaram Abex Ltd.               Auto parts   EXP              82,833                   5
TA-7.84     Ki(roskarCummins Ltd.           Engines     EXP'    2713    138,375      27.436         3
TA-7.85    Trinity Forge P. Ltd.            Forgings    NEW       78    :490.700      1,481       23
TA-7.80    Trident Intl Engineers PvL       Mach Tools 'NEW                A2S53       603         x
TA-7.87    Masonellan indbi Ltd.            Valves      NEW       91      13.208      3.109        -t
TA-7.8B    Proces orSyteme Inda Pv.         Sotware   :NEW        10    '30.629-   20,584          13
TA-7.89    Wlpro Systems Ltd.               Software    EXP       60    5,000                     39
TA-7.90    Bhuvaneshwari Corporation        Machinery    EW           0' 905          4.756       -1
TA-7.91     Op. Software Ltd.               Softwae    :NEW        1     8X250      25.617       18
TA-7.92    HCL Ltd.                         Softwar    NEW              138.4'58     2,432       -S
TA-7.93    Nimarchal Engineering Pvt.      Mach Tools  NEW                 0OO                    2Z
TA-7.84    Kody Computers Ltd.              Sofwre      NEW                  616        34       -10
TA-7.95    Blue Star Ltd.                   software    EXP       14      60,000'    8.463        23
TA-7.9      Ventura Data Sytems Pvt         Software    NEW              '                        -4
TA-7.97    Sterdlng Electronics Pvt.        Hardware   NEW                60.000
TA-7.98    VeejayLakshmiEng.Work Pvt        Machinery  NiEW      11e       6.278                  20
TA-7.99    Indian Card Claothing Co.       Ind. Cloth   NEW      200   . 150,000,     3.050         a
TA-8.00     Sri Raamakrishna Steel Industrial    Castings    EXP  300   '`':a3.334    9,518         1
TA-8.01     Nagpur AUoy Casdngs Ltd.        Forgings    NEW       148    A48750       3,217        7
TA-8.02     Permanent Magnets Ltd.          Magnets    EXP.      163     tQo,a00     26,728        36
TA-8.03    Sharat Frit Wmaer Pvt Ltd.       Mach Tools  DIV,     2!4 '79.93          14.518       34
TA8.04      Kar Mobiles Ltd.                Auto parts   EXP     140      5000       25,517       tt
TA-8.0S    Premier lnstuments&Controls      Auto parts   NEW     372      16.575     17,544       28
TA-S.06    Tata Engineering & Locomotve Co.  Software    NEW:i         : 09-                        0
TA-8.07     Frontier information Technologies    Softwtre    aEW   8  :,;o00          1,015       21
TA48.08    Meera & Celko Pumps Pvt Ltd.     Pumps       NEW       17   .,817                       tt
TA-8.09    Abo PlatI                       Auto paft   NEW       16       4t95        666       .-
TA-4.10    88 Compuwares Pav Ltd.           Softwre       W         1                  404   .-8
TA-8.11     8.8. Mirada Ud.                 Mach tools  NEW                3.875                  -10
TA-a.12    Auto ignition P. Ltd.            Auto part   EXP       27 'f'     542      1.134        2
TA-1.13     Sahney Krwood P. Ltd.           Auto parts   NW       72                   . .0  8,143  -17.
TA-8.14     Hindudan Tools & Forgings Ltd.  Forgings    4EW       37       46;500.   22.371       33
TA-8.15     Predon Tools & Castings Ltd.    Forgings   4IEW       36  .  27,088       3,233         5
TA-8.16    syscon                           Softe    NEW ^         -146 -t 
TA-4.17     Makings Agro Products Pvt Ltd.  Machinery                      OtV f5.0                -2
TA-8.18    Ceekay Oukiin Ltd.               Auto parts   NEW     134      49,000      6,284 



- 46 -
Paqe 3Qf 4
TABLE 18: EXaM BANK EMF GRANTS
Authorized   Undiab Bal   Time to
TotaW   IRO        (Cost        flnal
No.        Company Nasne                    sector      Type   Wes  Grant Amt   Underrun)  Ohibursement
(Rps M)   (USS       (USS)       (Mnths)
TA-8.t9    Mascot ( Tools & Forgings        Forginge    DIV       45      47,183                  23
TA-8.20    Capital Industries               Valves      NEW               14,792       617          3
TA-S 21    Integra Micro Systems Ltd.       Software    NEW        4      10,008.     8.478       -e
TA-4.22    Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.         Vehicles    NEW              200,300                  29
TA-8.23    Tata EngineerIng & Locomotive Co.                           CANCELED
TA-8.24    HCL  Ud.                         Sotwae       Ev              27,0                      5
TA-4.25    Intemational Software India Ud.  Software                   CANCELED
TA-8.26    Reed Relays & Elect. India Ltd.  Switches    EXP               44,142                   17
TA-S.27    Best &Crompton Eng. Ltd.         Caings    NEW        149      17.86e      3.910         9
TA-8.28    Weicast Steels Ltd.              Castings    NEW       78      21.263      7,363         2
TA-8.29    Steelcast Bhavnagar P. Ltd.      Forgings    NEW       14      30,4B7      8.512        6
TA-8.30    Paranjape Autocst Pvt Ltd.       Forgings    EXi       38      12.98         44        20
TA-8.31    Fotune Decision $syems Ltd.      Software    NEW                4,787      ,577        -6
TA-a.32    Softek Pvt Ud                    Software    NEW       15      40,8S2      7,913       28
TA-8.33    Fouress Eng. Pvt. Ltd.           Valves     UiXP      207      18,179                    0
TA-8.34    Baker Mercer India P. Ud.        Mach tools  NEW               19,417                  -3
TA-a.36    Inalsa Ltd.                      Machines   DIV                 8.224                  -9
TA-8.38    Compro Services () P. Ltd.       Software    EXP        1       6,834       5o         -2
TA-8.37    Lumax Industries Ltd.            Auto rarts   NEW               6,e667                   6
TA-8.38    Hero Cycles P. Ltd.              Bicycles    DI#     2244    236.100    68.548         24
TA-8.39    Lumax Industies Ltd.             Auto parts   NEW     289.   77833        19.240       15
TA-A4.40    Owes. Electronics Ltd.          Capacitors  NEW               22700
TA-8.41    W.S. Industries Ltd.            Insulators   DIV              114,517     87.321       .19
TA-8.42    Madras Gauge Room Equipment Pvt Mach tools  NEW                10,4s7                  23
TA-8.43    Precision Transmatic Devices Pvt.   Autm parts   NEW    8       8.427      1.326       I8
TA-t.44    Cutfast Abrasive Tools Ltd.     Mach Tools  NEW        78    '26,848        206         I
TA-8.45   .Khimllne Pumps Ltd.              Pumps      NEW        94       3          4.151       23
TA-8.4S    iKshore Pumps Ltd.               Pumps      NEW        52   .21.333:    1.86           -l
TA-8.4?     lectronics Sales& Services      Mach Tools  DtV      114    4a,ss7        3.711        1
TA-t.48    Ahmodnagar Forgings Ltd.         Forgings    NEW      236       9.400       947 '4
TA-8.49    Geometric Tools Pvt Ltd.         Hand Tools  OWV       13    .17,5W .
TA-8.50    Macmet India PvL Ltd.            Softtwae    NEW      230  : 3,750            0         5
TA-8.51    Inasa Ltd.                      Kn Mach   N1EW        356      27.58      13,363        3
TA-8.52    United Engineering Works         Auto parts   NEW      12    '23.867       3,124        8
TA-8.53    S& S Consultants PvL Ltd.        Software     W         9      14,710      2.211        7
TA-8.54    Sealol Hindustan Ltd.            Oil Ssal    NEW      175      49.700                  22
TA-8.55    Indian Seamless Meta Tubes Ltd.   Tubes      NEW      761      50.000      1.400        t5
TA-8.6    ton Exchange Indla Ltd.           Chemicas  'NEW       557      60,000       817         5
TA-8.67    Quadricon Pvti Ltd.                                         CANCELED
TA-8.58    Fortune eision Suystems Ud.      Software   :DIVf           3-      7                  21
TA-8.59    Heynen India Ltd.                Hand Tools  NEW               t6,867      1,000       4
TA-8.e0    Sonalkar Tool Works Pvt.         Hand Tools  NEW       13       3.500        32        -7
TA-.81     Sperr Equipment Ltd.             Engines    #EW        81       3.000                  -8
TA-8.62    Unisesen Tech. Pvt. Ltd.                                    CANCELED
TA-8.63    WADCO Tools                      Hand Tools  NEW       33      43,87'       172        14
TA-8.84    Kumar Malleables (P) Ltd.        Castings    EX        17      13.068    13.205
TAdJ.5    Devwndra Expons P. Ltd.           Auto parts   EXP      16                   lo4 2.108
TA-8.86    Industrial Jewels P. Ltd.        eel Pts   NEW         48      20.840      5.824      . 17
TA-8A7    8.S. Miranda Ltd.                 MachTools  NEW       160      20,542      2.030    :   i
TA-8.68    Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd.       Vehicles    lEW         1: 4593           7,042     : . 16
TA-8.e9    MICON                            Softwafe    NEW           ;11t.l          4.208      -3
TA-8.70    Ring Gea  India Ltd.             Auto paets    EW      48      32,80 2,890              1
TA-8.71    Audco India Ltd.                 Vales      NEW       441      73338      .M S.08       11
TA-8.72    Vllpro Infrmnaton Tech. Ltd.     Hadware   146W            ; 2.08                    .8
TA-8.73    Super Circle Gaskets Ltd.        Auto parts   -            CANC
TA-8.74    Stel Strips Wheels Ltd.          Auto parts    :           CANCD
TA-8.75    Start Softare Whee  Ltd.         Software    tj               ,13,488       J00        -9 
TA8.76    Mlkratech                        Tools                           8.25C      3343         0
TA-8.77    Citicorp Overseas Softward Ltd.  Stwae        E       107      50.oo0      4.813       -7



- 47 -
Paae 4 of 4
TABLE 16: EXIM BANK EMF GRANTS
Authoried   Undieb Sa    Time to
Total   IBRD        (Cost        final
No.         Company Name                    sector      Type   Sales  Grant Amt   Underrun)  Disbursement
(RpsM)   (U"         (US"       (Mnths)
TA-8.78    OIEJN Connewtors. Ltd.           Connsctors  EXP       100     10,000       336         e
TA-8.70    Usha Marftin Ind. Ltd.           Wire Ropes  DIV     2go       47.3        5,2e0        14
TA-8.80    Eohlay folrgings Ltd.            Forgings    EXP       68      48,000     17.337        13
TA-1.81    Compto Servioes . P. Ltd.        Software    NEW               21,881                   S
TA-8.82    PMP Auto Industries. Ld.         Auto parts   NEW      100     44,082      1,233       .12
TA-.83    Chowgule Matrix Hobs Ltd.         Mach Tools  NEW       23      12.33      1t882       '7
TA-884    Janatics                          Cylinders   NEW        13     -S.00        354        -0,
TA-8G6     Fenner                           Belting     NEW               -3753       3,753
TA-8.86    Bharat Faor                      Forgings    NEW     2322 W    10*60      34,U      :
TA-8.67    Crompton Greaves                 Motos       OIV     6617?   l88,370       3.110        7
TA-G.88    Jemna Auto                       Auto past   DIV      289      59,050     13,483        2
TA-8.89    Seelcast Ltd.                    Castings    EXP               16,11                   -2
TA-GO      Technotbur                       Tools       NEW        11     2*00   .. Go-
TA-8.91    Coromandel Pradorite PtL Ltd.    Chemicais   NZEW       S       8,70       8,570
TA-.92    Ceskey Dzidn                      Auto parts  NiEW               4                        5
TA49S      'hicorn Biotek                   Seeds       NEW        1      270           8t          8
TA-8.94    Tt Ltd.                          Cookers    NEW               19t.250     51.563        S."
TA-8.95    Clutch Auto Ltd.                 Auto past   NEW      203      S6S180       371         3
TA-8416    Motor Industries Co. Ltd.                                   ;CANCEL
TA-8.97    Tltagarh Ste  Ltd.               Forgings    NEW      200    .t.          20207    :
TA-SG      Omnitrode Aditya Electodes       Welding     EXP        8      2600         237         2
TA-8G0     Dewas Tools Pvt. Ltd.            Hand Tools  NEW       32      IUO         680s8        0
TA-0.00    Mekings Agro Products P. Ltd.    Machinery   DIV       20      39-59       9.528         1
TA-9.01    P.S. Power Controls              Switches    NEW       35      8.845                   -3
TA-9.02    Lamina Suspension Products Ltd.   Auto parts   NEW    159  *;Ka0            289 9
TA-9.03    liGtoskar ODi Engines            Engines  iEXP         -       2, 907    25.907
TA-4.04    Nipha Exports                    Porgtgs    DiV.       66 . 2.31          14.168
TA.05     P.S. Electricais Ltd.            Swches    NEW          4      3615       27.132     .
TA9.06    India Pistons                     Auto patts   OIV        6                  121        -3.
TA-,.07    Eicher Goodearth Ltd.            Forgings    NEW        8   K 107.j2       3.112   :
TA-9.08    Jamna Auto Ind. Ltd.             Auto parte   DIV              93.00                    1
TA9.09    Bharat Idnustties                 Auto pasts   NEW      12       eA200        46   ;
TA-0.10    Cortica Manuf. (India) Ltd.      Auto parts   NEW       16      4,000       190   a 2
TA-0.11    MorugappaMorganite               Fibers      EWE4 3S           2           3,078         1'
TA-9.12     US Inf. & Consulting Swnbcs     Software    NEW       28      I5,000
TA-9.13    Inca Hammock Manut. & tcp. Lid.   Codc       DIV.                           183
TA-6.14     Suwyovonics Ltd.                Bauted"s    DIV        4       2,600      2,0
TA-e.15    MHad Computers                   Software    NEW          I           1,500 1,500
TA-0.1O     HOL AIrcraft Satedres Ltd.      Balteries    E..      27                    27 '
TA-9.17     HanungToys                      Toys       -NeW        7         5         670 >        I
TA-9.18    Brlhan Maharashtra Steel Inrd.   Drum parts  WXP       23      10,90S        22          0
TA-9.19    Shari nformation Tech. Systens   Sobfwe    NEW          7                   117          1
TOTAL                                                      10.022.03t  1.909,031



- 48 -
Page 1 of 3
TABLE 17: ICICI PRODUCTMTY FUND GRANTS
InMtal                  Final
Authorized   Cancel-    Authorized
No.         Company Name                    Amount      ations     Amount
(US                    (USQ
TA-6.01     Permanent Magnets Ltd.            44,150                 44,150
TA-6.02    Crompton Greaves Ltd.              11,140                 11,140
TA-8.03    General Optics (Asia) Ltd.         28,000                 28,900
TA-6.04    Widia (India) Ltd.                 71,640                 78.640
TA.-605    Menon Pistons Ltd.                 25,730                 25,730
TA-8.06    Bajaj Auto Ltd.                   160,000                160.000
TA-6.07     Eastem Peripherals Ltd.          110,485                110.485
TA-8.08    Ws Insulators of India Ltd.       158,175                158.175
TA-8.09     Sm Industrial Marketing Ltd.     156,200                155,200
TA-6.10     Anabond Pvt. Ltd.                 30,000                 30,000
TA-6.1     GP Electronics                     44,000                 44.000
TA-6.12     Spa Software Pvt. Ltd.            17,790                 17,790
TA-6.13    Gujarat Narmada Auto Ltd.          48,136                 46,136
TA-8.14     Ergodyne Private Ltd.             73,160                 73160
TA-8.15     Sundram Abex Ltd.                142,000                142,000
TA-6.16    Brakes India Ltd.                 157,000                157,000
TA-6.17     Devendra Exports Pvt. Ltd.        75,400                 75.4S0
TA-8.18    S.R. Accessories Pvt. Ltd.         39,50Q                 38,500
TA-6.19    Crompton Greaves Ltd.              25,519                 25,S10
TA-6.20    Data Software Research Co.         61,800                 61,800
TA-6.21     GMT Metrology Pvt. Ltd.           78,600                 78,600
TA-6.22     Rank Suspension Pvt. Ltd.         78,600                 78.000
TA-S.23     Mahindra Sintered Prod. Ltd.      81,770                 81,770
TA-8.24     Kiran X-Ray Screens Ltd.          74,524                 74,524
TA-0.25    Compton Greaves Ltd.               96,164                 96164
TA-6.26     Kulkami Engineering Assoc.        96,00q                 00,000
TA-6.27    Vidyut Metallice Ltd.             293,077                293.077
TA-6.28     L G Salakrlshnan & Bros Ltd.     218,S15                218.615
TA-8.29     Veejay Lakshmi Engg Works        200,000                200,000
TA-l.30    Mascot (India) Tools & Forgings    67,857                 67,86?
TA-8 31    lOran X-Ray Screens Ltd.           21,429                 21,420
TA-e.32     G.P. Electronics Ltd.             26,786                 26,78
TA-6.33     Micro Pack Ltd.                   75,000                 75,000
TA-8.34     Saizer Electronics Ltd.           52,143                 52,143
TA-6.35     Frontier Inform. Technologies.    37,077                 37,077
TA-6.36    Thermax Private Ltd.               S4,236                 54,286
TA-8.37     Mahindra Sintered Products        74,164                 74,154
TA-8.38     Perfect Cercle Victor Ltd.       100,000                100.000
TA-6.39     Vibromech Engineers Pvt. Ltd.     30,000                 30,000
TA-8.40     Sahney lOrkwood Pvt. Ltd.        100,000                100,800
TA-S.41    Armour Chemicals Pvt. Ltd.         94,643                 943
TA-6.42    bhilwara Synthetics Ltd.          214,286                214,286
TA-6.43     Roto Pumps & Hydraulics          121,429                121,429
TA-6.44     Bharat Gears Ltd.                 53,850                 63,860
TA-6.46     Automobile Corp. Of GOA Ltd.     180,80                 180.8Q0
TA-6.40     Ellora Eng. Co. Ltd.             389,000                39,000
TA-6.47     Madras Industrial Uning Ltd.      49,200                 49,2
TA-8.48     Bharat Gears Ltd.                100,000                100,000
TA-8.49     Applied Electronics Ltd.          96,33                  98
TA-6.60    Tata Eng. & Locomotive Co.         64,133                  4,133
TA-8.51     Indian Card Clothing Go.          72,000                 72O000
TA-6.52     Hlmatsingka Selde Ltd.            93,300                 93.300
TA0-653     SaJ Froude Test Plant             72,414                 72.4t4
TA-8.54     Kate Consultants                  51,667                 5,6607
TA-8.65    Information Management             13,2S                  13,266
TA-6.86    Crompton Greaves Ltd.            1t0,000                 1oo0,00
TA-8.t7     Purolator India                   84,300                 4,300
TA-8.68     Gabriel India                     95,000                 95,000



- 49 -
Page 2 of 3
TABLE 17: ICICI PRODUCTIVITY FUND GRANTS
Initial                Final
Authorized   Cancel-    Authorized
No.         Company Name                    Amount     ations     Amount
(UJS$)                  s
TA-G.5s    Rewdale Precision Tools           75,200                 75,200
TA-6.eo    Anuma Precision                   27,700                 27,700
TA-6.61    Ajay Metachem Pvt. Ltd.           48,660                 4s,660
TA-6.62    Hindustan Lever Ltd.              32,660                 32,660
TA-6.63    Yokogawa Keonics                  67,605                 67.o05
TA-6.64    Textool Company, Ltd.            100,000                100,000
TA-e.6s    Cipla Ltd.                       113,375                113,375
TA-8.66    ZF Steering Gears (India)         21,700                 21,700
TA-6.67    Sundaram Fasteners Ltd.          142.490                142.490
TA-6.68    Lupin Laboratories Ltd.          184.485                184,485
TA-6.69    Himatsingka Seide Ltd.           278.497                278.497
TA-6.70    Auto Ignition Pvt. Ltd. -         61,t155                 1.155
TA-6.71    Autolec Industries Ltd.           21,552                 21,552
TA-8.72    Autolite (India) Ltd.             31.080                 31,080
TA-6.73    Mekins Agro Products              21.097                 21,097
TA-6.74    Technocraft Industries            26,122                 26,122
TA-6.75    Hindustan Motors Ltd.            307,314                307,314
TA-6.7e    Sundaram Abex Ltd.                87,609                 67,609
TA-e.77    Sudarshan Chemicals Ind.         134,254                134254.
TA-6.78    Precision Tools & Castings        68.347                 es 347
TA-C.79    Applied Electronics Ltd.         150,584                150,584
TA-e.80    Gahara Bevel Gears Ltd.          113,583                113,583
TA-8.81    Bharat Gears Ltd.                 67,610                 67,610
TA-4.82    South Indian Refractories         30,730                 30,730
TA-6.83    Hlndustan Lever Ltd.              32,880                 32,880
TA-6.84    Management Software Tech.         18,440                 18.440
TA-6.85     Kar Mobiles Ltd.                 67,810                 67,610
TA-6.86    Ta!bros Automotive Components     58,820                 58.820
TA-6.87    Tata Eng. & Locomotivo Co.        22,089                 22.089
TA-6.88    G.P. Electronics LTd.             26,850                 25,650
TA-6.89    Information Management            13.240                 13,240
TA-8.90    Autolec Indusres Ltd.             19,710                 19,710
TA-8.91    Prav Electrospark Pvt. Ltd.       58,820                 58,820
TA-6.92    Cosomo Ferrite Ltd.               92,180                 92,180
TA-6.93    Century Textile Inds. Ltd.        34,410                 34A10
TA-6.94    Technova Graphic Systems           6,590                  8,5S0
TA-6.95    Tatho Engineering Works           23,000                 23,000
TA-6.96    GodreJ and Boyce MFG. Co.         18,240                 18,240
TA-4.97    Indian Card Clothing Co. Ltd.     34,710                 34,710
TA-.98     Baja; Auto Ltd.                  260,000                260,000
TA-6.99    Malwa Vanaspati & Chemical Co.    86,000                 88,000
TA-7.00    Shah Granite Pvt. Ltd.            12,000                 12.000
TA-7.01    Armour Chemicals                 230,000                230,000
TA-7.02    TELCO                            100,000                100,000
TA-7.03    SAMTEL                           160,000                160,000
TA-7.04     Bannari Amman Sugar              70,000                 70,000
TA-7.05    Eiectronica                      102,000                102,000
TA-7.06    CEL                              110,000                110,000
TA-7.07    Tata Iron and Steel Co.          277.800                277,800
TA-7.08     Standard Organics Ud.            87,800                 87,600
TA-7.09    Hindustan Levers                 166,700                168,700
TA-7.10    Indian Gum Industries Ltd.        83,300                 83,300
TA-7.11    GaJra Bevel Geas Ltd.             70,900                 70,900
TA-7.12    Hindustan Lever Ltd.             357,895                357,895
TA-7.13    Cosino Films Ud.                  07,370                 67,370
TA-7.14    Bharat Starch and Chemicals       47,370                 47,370
TA-7.16     Harish Textiles Ltd.             92.10                  92,106
TA-7.16    Sundaram Abex Ltd.                36,842                 38,842



- so -
Paae 3 of 3
TABLE t7: ICIOl PRODUCTIVITY FUND GRANTS
Initial                Final
Authorized   Cancel-    Authorized
No.         Company Name                   Amount      atons      Amount
(US$)                 (US$)
TA-7.17    Sri Ramakrlshna Steels Ind.       36,475                 36.476
TA-7.18    Otis Elevator Ltd.                37,475                 37,475
TA-7.19    Brass Smiths                      21,055                 21,056
TA-7.20    Polyolefins Industries Ltd.       12,210                 12,210
TA-7.21    Mascon Computer Services Ltd.      5,420                  5,420
TA-7.22    Data Software Research            30,000                 30,000
TA-7.23    Electronic Systems Pvt. Ltd.      23,000                 23.000
TA-7.24    Intemational Computers India      23,000                 23,000
TA-7.25    Mekins Agro Products Pvt. Ltd.    61,259                 81,269
TA-7.28    Pane Agro Pvt. Ltd.               98,809                 9S,809
TA-7.27    Parle Beverages Ltd.              17,379                 17,379
TA-7.28    Mafatlal Industfies Ltd.         202,770                202.770
TA-7.29    Mafatlal Fine Spg. & Mfg. Ltd.    36,438                 38,438
TA-7.30    Sunderam Fastners Ltd.             7,400                  7,400
TA-7.31    Intec Systems Pvt. Ltd.           36,185                 38.185
TA-7.32    Electomics Circuits Ltd.          14,650                 14,650
TA-7.33    Technova Graphic System           25,550                 25.60
TA-7.34    National Leather Cloth            52,364                 52,354
TA-7.36    Kancor Flavours and Extracts      59,460                 59,460
TA-7.36    Spark Engineering Pvt. Ltd.       14,857                 14,857
TA-7.37    Veera Treatwood Ltd.              16,216                 16,216
TA-7.38    Information Management India       8,A2                  8,662
TA-7.39    Arvind Mills Ltd.                151,350           .    161,360
TA-7.40    United Phosphorus Ltd.           126,315                126,315
TA-7.41    Heuristix System Pvt. Ltd.         8,160                  8,160
TA-7.42    Shah Granites Pvt. Ltd.           24,000                 24,000
TA-7.43    Metropolitan Tradly Corp          21,876                 21,875
TA-7.44    Gujarat Glass Ltd.                24,000                 24.000
TA-7.45    United Ink & Vanish Co. Ltd.      13,500                 13,500
TA-7.46    Intec Polymers Pvt. Ltd.           8,750                  8,750
TA-7.47    Eurotex Industries & Exports      32,500                 32,500
TA-7.48    Anupan Machine Tools Pvt. Ltd.    48,5Y0                 48,55
TA-7.49    Secals Ltd.                       86,500                 886,00
TA-7.50    Hindustan Mortors Ltd.           192,100                192,100
TA-7.61    Harish Textiles Ltd.              20,000                 20,000
TA-7.52    Talbros Automotive Co. Ltd.       75,000                 75,000
TA-7.53    Auto Ignition                     18,000                 18,000
TA-7.54    S & S Power Switch Gear           32,750                 32,750
TA-7.55    CEAT                              47,570                 47.670
TA-7.56    Indian Card Clothing              41,415                 41,415
Total                         12.185.037             12,186,037



