Report No 1256a-TH
Thailand                                                                    FILE COPY
Appraisal of the
National Agricultural Extension Project
March 10, 1977
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =   Baht(%) 20.375
$ 1.00        =   US$0.04908
US$1 million  =   9 20.375 million
g 1 million   =   US$49.08 thousand
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 meter (m)               =      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)         =       0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)            =      2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)          =       2.2 pounds
1 cubic centimeter (cc)  =       0.061 cubic inches
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC        -    Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
CSC         -    Civil Service Commission
DAE         -    Department of Agricultural Extension
DEO         -    District Extension Officer.
DREO        -    Deputy Regional Extension Officer
EA          -    Extension Agent
HYV         -    High Yielding Variety
MOAC        -    Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOF         -    Marketing Organization of Farmers
NESDB       -    National Economic and Social Development Board
LS          -    Lump Sum
O&M         -    Operation and Maintenance
PEO         -    Provincial Extension Officer
PTO         -    Provincial Training Officer
PWD         -    Public Works Department
REO         -    Regional Extension Officer
RID         -    Royal Irrigation Department
RTG         -    Royal Thai Government
RTO         -    Regional Training Officer
SMS         -    Subject Matter Specialist
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .........................i -.i.i
I.  INT'RODUCTION .......                               ............. 1
II.  BACKGROUND ..................  1
General .................. 1
The Agricultural Sector   .         ................................  2
Agricultural Extension at Present .......................  3
Extension Components in Bank Projects   .....              ..............  5
Project Formulation   .....................................  6
III.    THE PROJECT   ....8..............                                             8
General Description ................................. 8
Organization of Agricultural Extension Services   ...              ......  8
Staffing   ...........         .....................................  9
Extension Methodology   ...................................  9
Fellowships and Overseas Training   ....................... 10
Regional Training Centers   ............................... 10
Extension Centers and Housing   ........................... 11
Vehicles and Equipment   .................................. 11
Design and Construction   ................................. 12
Implementation Schedule   ................................. 12
Cost Estimates   .......................................... 13
Financing   ..........          ..................................... 14
Procurement   ............................................. 15
Disbursements   ........................................... 15
Accounts and Audit   ...................................... 16
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   ................................ 16
District Extension Services   ............................. 16
Coordination with Other Agencies                ................... 17
Staffing   ..........         ...................................... 18
Staff Training   ................................                        20
Annual Extension Programs   .....................                        21
Consultants   ............................................. 21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. E.B. Boerema (Bank) and D. Benor (Consultant) and a postappraisal
mission consisting of Messrs. E.B. Boerema (Bank), D. Benor and J.W. Robins
(Consultants). Mr. J. Goldberg assisted in the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . .  24
ANNEXES
1.   Provincial Distribution of Project Beneficiaries
2.   The Existing Agricultural Extension Service
3.   Agriculture in Project Provinces
4.   Organization and Management of Agricultural Extension
Services under the Project
5.   Consulting Services
6.   Project Works
7.   Staff Training
8.   Cost Estimates
9.   Equipment Lists
10.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
11.   Schedule of Events
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 16178
Organization, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives No. 15659
Headquarters Organization of Department of Agriculture Extension
No. 16179
Project Organization No. 16180
MAP
National Agricultural Extension Project, IBRD No. 12068



THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Although Thailand has long been a major exporter of rice, and
recently has become an important exporter of maize, cassava products
(tapioca), and kenaf fiber, Thai agriculture is still characterized by
unimproved technology and consequent low yields and farm incomes. Pro-
duction increases in the past have derived largely from expansion of the
cultivated area of new land. The area of unused land with agricultural
potential is now rather limited, however, particularly in view of the
country's rapid rate of population growth. Future increases in agricul-
tural production required to supply Thailand's domestic needs and to
maintain her position in world export markets will have to be based on
increasing the productivity of millions of farmers, many of whom now
live in poverty despite the fact that they operate comparatively large
farms by Asian standards. The most direct method to achieve this goal
is through the development of a numerically strong, well organized and
equipped, highly trained and mobile extension service which could bring
currently existing agricultural techniques suitable for smallholder agri-
culture to the millions of Thai farmers who have never been exposed to it,
To support this goal, the Royal Thai Government (RTG) has requested Bank
assistance in financing the National Agricultural Extension Project, which
as a first phase effort would establish national standards of extension in
33 of Thailand's 71 provinces.
ii.       The project would provide for the establishment of an intensified
and expanded extension service for most agricultural crops under the Depart-
ment of Agricultural Extension (DAE). It would include the appointment of
additional staff and the introduction or expansion of sound extension
methodology with emphasis on regular farm visits and continuous training for
extension workers. The project would also include construction of Regional
Training Centers, Provincial and District Extension Centers and houses for
Extension Agents, procurement of vehicles to support field operations, and
equipment for training, field experimentation and demonstration. Consul-
tants wou:Ld be engaged to assist DAE with project execution and a fellowship
program would be included to assist in upgrading staff.
iii.      The agricultural extension methodology to be employed in the
present project has been developed jointly by the RTG and the Bank, evolving
gradually through extension components in three Bank-financed irrigation
projects (Credits 379-TH and 461-TH and Loan 1149-TH) and the recently ini-
tiated Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH). This project
moves beyond the latter by replacing progressive farmers ("Farmer Foremen")



- ii -
working on a part-time basis for token wages with trained professional
full-time Extension Agents as the regular points of contact between the
DAE extension service and the farming community. Extension Agents would
serve about 1,000 farm families, and would be supervised by District and
Provincial Extension Officers and technically assisted by Subject Matter
Specialists. Field extension work would initially concentrate on a few of
the major yield improving practices of the major crops in each area.
iv.      Total project cost is estimated at US$56.5 million (B 1,151 million)
of which US$22 million, or about 39%, would be in foreign exchange. The Loan
would finance the foreign exchange component as well as US$6 million or 17%
of local costs of the project. Local currency financing is justified in view
of the need for substantial Bank participation in this difficult project, the
need for assistance during the start-up period when substantial increases in
budgetary allocations are required, and the need for a project of sufficient
size to encompass the major food and export crop producing areas. RTG would
provide the remaining B 5&8. million (US$28.5 million), which would cover the
incremental operating costs (B 546 million) of DAE extension services at
headquarters level and in the 33 project provinces during project implementa-
tion and 15% of construction costs. Vehicles and equipment costing about
US$7.2 mi¢lion and construction contracts for Regional Training Centers
(about US$330,000 each) and other centers which may be conveniently grouped
would be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for construction of provincial and
district centers and houses, which would be dispersed throughout the project
provinces, would be grouped in packages as large as practical and tendered on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised)locally in accordance with
Government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. A local engineering firm
with expertise in architecture would be employedto assist with the prepara-
tion of plans and tender documents and supervisitn of construction of all
training and extension centers.  About 280 man-months of consultan- services
in the fields of agricultural extension and project monitoring (US$1.7
million) would be required to assist DAE in planning, implementing and
monitoring the project, while a further 500 man-months of local consultant
services would be required for design work, construction supervision and
procurement. Contingencies amount to US$13.9 million, of which US$11.4
million are for anticipated price increases.
v.        DAE headquarters organization would be strengthened to ensure
smoother and more effective operation. The Director General would be
assisted by two Deputies responsible for technical and extension services
respectively and a Senior Administrative Officer who would head administra-
tive services. The administrative and technical line of command would flow
from head office through the Regional and Provincial Extension Officers to
the District Extension Officer who would supervise the Extension Agents
stationed in the subdistricts. The Director General of DAE would have
overall responsibility for project implementation, while the day-to-day
direction of extension implementation in the provinces would rest with the
Chief of the Extension Division under the Deputy Director General, Exten-
sion Services.



- iii -
vi.       The project would reach about 2.8 million farm families, (out of
4.6 million in the country) who farm 4.3 million ha of rice and about 2.4
million ha of other food, oil, fiber and vegetable crops in the 33 project
provinces. All farmers would benefit from direct or indirect contact with
extension workers, who would convey practical and profitable advice for their
farm enterprises. Total project costs would amount to about US$20 per farm
family and incremental annual operating costs, following project completion,
would amount to about US$4 per farm family or US$1.60 per ha of cultivated
land.
vii.      Because of the nature of the project it is not possible to quantify
the benefits with precision. However, even under the most modest assumptions
with respect to increases in yield, project benefits would be high. Although
it is difficult to evaluate the impact of the project on income distribution,
the very poor farmers stand to benefit most from the project since the exist-
ing gap between their yields and those attainable with simple improvements in
technique are greater than is the case for the better educated and more afflu-
ent farmers.
viii.     The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank Loan of US$28 mil-
lion with a 20-year maturity, including a grace period of 4-1/2 years. The
Borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Thailand has requested Bank assistance in finan-
cing the first phase of a National Agricultural Extension Project, following
the encouraging introduction of an improved agricultural extension service
in Bank-supported irrigation projects (Credit 379-TH, Credit 461-TH and Loan
1149-TH). In recent years, the Government has been concerned about the effec-
tiveness of extension services in transmitting known technology to farmers and
has recognized the need for a more efficient extension service. The proposed
project would expand and further improve the extension services provided by
the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) through an increase in trained,
mobile extension and supervisory staff and the introduction of sound exten-
sion methodology. Farmer groups would have regular contact with extension
agents, trained to give timely instruction on the best farming practices.
Initially the extension agents would focus on only a few critical yield and
income-improving practices on one or two of the major economic crops.
Gradually they would cover all practices for all crops.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Thailand in November-December 1975 to preappraise a research project and
appraise 1the National Agricultural Extension Project. The mission was composed
of Messrs. E.B. Boerema (Bank), D. Benor, P. Judd and R. Obordo (Consultants).
Messrs. Judd and Obordo worked on research aspects, which led to recommenda-
tions for organizational changes in the Department of Agriculture and the
identification of a possible future research project. The National Agricul-
tural Extension Project was prepared by a special project preparation team in
DAE, in c:Lose cooperation with the Bank's Regional Mission in Bangkok. A
postappraisal mission comprising Messrs. E.B. Boerema (Bank), D. Benor, and
J.W. Robins (Consultants) visited Bangkok in May 1976 for further discussion
with Government on project organization and execution. Mr. J. Goldberg
assisted in preparing the report.
II.   BACKGROUND
General
2
2.01      Thailand's territory extends over 514,000 km .  In 1974 about 35%
of the total area was classified as agricultural land and over 40% as forest.
The population is estimated at 43.4 million in mid-1976, with a growth rate
declining from 3.0% in 1970 to 2.8% since 1973.  The Thai economy grew at



-2-
an average rate of 6% from 1972 to 1975. Per capita GDP in 1975 was around
US$350. Details on the economic situation are presented in the Bank's latest
economic report./l
2.02      Until 1970 the bulk of Thailand's economic development was con-
centrated in the Bangkok-Thon Buri metropolitan area and the Chao Phya Plain
north of Bangkok; the outer regions were relatively neglected. To restore
a better degree of regional balance, one of the goals of Thailand's Third
National Economic and Social Development Plan (1972-76) has been to "raise
the income and living standard of the rural people in various regions." To
help achieve this goal, in the last five years considerable effort and
resources have been invested in regional planning for the northeast, the
north and the south, resulting in various programs and projects aimed at
decreasing regional income disparities.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Between 1971 and 1975 agricultural production grew by an estimated
19% while the agricultural terms of trade improved. As a result, agricul-
ture's share of GDP rose from 31% to 37%, reversing a steady decline that had
continued almost unbroken for a decade. Agriculture also accounts for 78% of
the labor force and more than 60% of total exports. Allowing for population
growth, the real per capita income of the 75% of the population dependent
primarily upon agriculture rose by 30-35% over the last four years.
2.04      Since the mid-1960s the growth in agricultural production has come
from both expansion of the cultivated area and improvement in yields.  The
performance of different crops has varied considerably, however, with sugar
and rubber yields increasing significantly, rice and maize yields growing
slowly, and cassava and kenaf yields declining. Thailand's fertilizer
consumption is among the lowest in Asia, with its use largely confined to
paddy (particularly the dry season crop), sugarcane and rubber replanting.
Crop diversification in response to price incentives has continued at a high
rate, causing the proportion of cropped area under rice, the staple food and
largest single export earner, to decline from 71% to 63%. Crops such as
maize, cassava, sugarcane, kenaf and rubber not only increased export earn-
ings, but also improved the level and stability of farm incomes in areas not
well suited for rice.
2.05      There are at present about 4.6 million farm families on the 18
million ha of agricultural land. About 62% of all farms are fully owner-
operated, 32% partially owned and partially rented, and 6% fully rented.
Average farm size is about 3.9 ha. Because of the diversity of cropping
patterns and growing conditions average farm size varies considerably
throughout the Kingdom, ranging from 1.4 ha in mountainous Lampang province
in the north to more than 6 ha in Prachin Buri in the flat flood plains of
the Central Region.
/1   THAILAND:  Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic Situation and
Prospects of Thailand, October 29, 1976 (World Bank Report No. 1280a-TH).



- 3 -
2.06      For the Kingdom, the farm size distribution in 1974 was as
follows:
Size of Farm               Percent of Farms       Percent of Area
(ha)                         (%)                   (%)
less than  1.0                       8                     1
1.0 - 2.4                      22                     7
2.5 - 4.9                      30                    21
5.0 - 7.1                      18                    21
7.2 - 9.6                      10                    16
more than  9.6                      12                    34
100                   100
Agricultural Extension at Present
2.07      The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC), consists
of nine major departments, one of which is the Department of Agricultural
Extension (Chart No. 15659). The DAE is charged with the execution of
extension services for most agricultural crops to the 4.6 million Thai farm
families. Within MOAC the Departments of Livestock Development, Fisheries,
Land Development and Cooperative Promotion provide these services for animal
husbandry and pasture and forage production, aquaculture, land development
and the agricultural cooperatives, respectively. The Tobacco Monopoly
operates an efficient extension service for tobacco growers, the Rubber
Replanting Aid Fund provides an extension service to smallholders until the
second year of tapping in rubber replanting schemes, and some sugar factories
provide minimal extension service to farmers growing cane on contract. In
some districts there is a certain amount of overlapping in the extension
services being provided by the different organizations. Steps would be
introduced under the project to coordinate these activities in the future
(para 4.07).
2.08      The DAE is headed by a Director General, who is assisted by two
deputies. The Department is divided at the headquarters level into nine
divisions with extension, technical and administrative responsibilities.
Until recently the divisions were not grouped functionally, and the Deputy
Directors General were not allocated formal responsibility over specific
divisions. Consequently the headquarters divisions lack proper guidance
and direction. In the field DAE was until recently loosely organized
into six geographic regions subdivided by the boundaries of the political
jurisdictions, including 71 provinces (changwats) and 620 districts (amphurs)
(Annex 1).  Here too lines of command were not clearly drawn.  The Regional
Extension Officer (REO) had no direct supervisory responsibilities over the
Provincial Extension Officers (PEOs) in his region, who report directly to
the Director General or occasionally through a Deputy Director General at
headquarters. The organization has been strengthened as part of the Project
(para. 4.01). The PEOs supervise District Extension Officers (DEOs) who in
turn are responsible for field activities (para. 2.10). Provincial administra-
tors occasionally become involved in extension matters, since major decisions
on agricultural extension policy and financing are cleared with the Governor
at the provincial level and the District Administrator (Nai Amphur) at the
district level. Extension budgets are prepared by DAE and funds are made
available to the PEOs through the Governors at four-monthly intervals.



- 4 -
2.09      The Regional Extension Officer is responsible for certain specia-
lized services administered from the regional headquarters. His staff
consists of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) who train and backstop
provincial staff, and plant protection staff who handle pest eradication
programs. The concentration of most available SMSs at regional headquarters
deprives provincial services of adequate training and technical support on
a continuous basis. Details of the organization of existing provincial
extension services and special project extension services are provided in
Annex 2.
2.10      In each provincial office there are about ten extension and adminis-
trative personnel and only one SMS, while there are usually one DEO and two
Extension Agents (EAs) in each district. Within the 33 project provinces
there are 332 districts with 396 DEOs and 624 EAs, or a total of 1,020
extension personnel of all grades to serve 2.8 million farm families giving
a district extension staff-farmer ratio of 1:2,700. Due to the administra-
tive and regulatory tasks of extension personnel the effective ratio becomes
about 1:4,400. A few EAs in each province devote all their time to providing
home economics courses for women.
2.11      Extension personnel usually come from urban areas and are
mostly inexperienced, inadequately trained, and lack confidence in
dealing with farmers. There is no system of regular visits to farmer
groups and there is no provision for regular staff training. Only a
limited number of demonstration trials are laid out and extension staff
members are excessively involved with regulatory and administrative
duties. (Annex 2)
2.12      Agricultural research is mostly carried out by the Department
of Agricultural Techniques, but universities, Regional Agricultural Centers,
the Tobacco Monopoly and a few other organizations also conduct basic and
applied research. There are well over 100 research stations and experi-
mental farms, widely distributed over the major agro-economic regions of
Thailand. Much of the research work is controlled and planned by staff
based in Bangkok but executed by research workers in the field who usually
receive inadequate support services. This has led to an overcentralized
research effort which does not always meet the demands of farmers in a
specific locality. Although agricultural research needs focus and strength-
ening, there are many local and overseas research results immediately
applicable to the majority of farms. There is little or no formal liasion
between extension and research in most provinces. Because extension staff
members are not always informed about the latest research findings appli-
cable to their areas of responsibility, outdated techniques have been
recommended to farmers.
2J13      About half of Thailand's farmers borrow from noninstitu-
tional sources, such as relatives, friends, merchants and money lenders
a varying, but usually high, jaterest rates. Main sources of institu-
ticnal credit are the Eank for Pariculture and Agricultural Ceoperatives
(BAAC), six types of ccoperatives s-upervised by the Department of Cooper-
ative Promotion, Farmers' Associations9 sugar factories, tobacco curing



-5-
barns and several commercial banks. BAAC has extended loans to about 10%
of all farm families and indications are that institutional credit currently
reaches about 15% of the mostly richer farmers.
2.14      Availablity of high quality seed or planting material is poor, but
is gradually improving through the joint efforts of the Department of
Agricultural Techniques (production of foundation seed), the Department of
Agricultural Extension (through its Seed Multiplication Division), and the
Marketing Organization for Farmers (MOF) which plans to operate a revolving
fund for the purchase and distribution of seed with the assistance of
extension personnel.  About 90% of all fertilizers used in Thailand are
imported.  An average of about 13 kg/ha (average of all fertilizers
available) over all agricultural land was used in 1974. About half of
the available agro-chemicals are now formulated locally. Retail sales
averaged about US$4.00 per farm family in 1974. Fertilizers and agro-
chemicals are mainly purchased from local traders, but cooperatives and
farmers' associations are becoming increasingly important as suppliers
of inputs. Overall usage of quality seed and inputs is very low.
2.15      An acute shortage of SMSs exists at the field level; only one
SMS is stationed in the province and on average there is one SMS per
province at the regional headquarters (para. 2.09). This very small pool
of SMSs is unable to provide adequate technical support to the district
extension personnel, particularly in view of their lack of access to
vehicles. The SMSs also rarely have sufficient time to mount training
programs or to establish the regular contact with research personnel
required to keep them informed of new developments. The shortage of
SMS staff is not due to a lack of trained Thai manpower, but rather to
a lack of funds for DAE staffing.
2.16      Extension personnel are inadequately accommodated in the pro-
vincial and district offices, where they all usually occupy a single office.
This office also serves as a storage for seeds, pesticides, spray equip-
ment, etc. Staff members are not sufficiently mobile to pay regular visits
to farmers, farmer groups or other agricultural organizations, and they
lack imp:Lements and agricultural equipment for field demonstrations and
audio-visual aids for group meetings.
2.17      The total professional staff complement of DAE is 2,365 in six salary
grades. Less than half of these officers have direct contact with farmers.
The tota:L extension budget of DAE has increased from US$7.9 million in the
1974 Thai fiscal year to US$11.9 million in 1975 and to US$12.5 million in 1976.
In the 1976 fiscal year this amounted to about US$2.70 per farm family and
about US$0.70 per ha of cultivated land (18 million ha). Although budgetary
allocations have been increasing in recent years, inadequate funding is still
a contributory factor to the specific shortcomings described above.
Extension Components in Bank Projects
2.18      The presence of an effective extension service which can be relied
on to reach the farmers in a regular fashion with timely advice is a pre-
condition for sustained agricultural development, and is thus requireS if



irrigation and drainage works, rural roads, and other agricultural infra-
structure are to yield their full potential benefits. In the absence of such
a national service, the three most recent Bank-financed irrigation projects
(Credits 379-TH and 461-TH, and Loan 1149-TH), as well as the Northeast Rural
Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH) included extension components to ensure
improved extension services within delimited project areas. These projects
made use of enterprising and knowledgeable farmers serving in the role of
Farmer Foremen, responsible for liaison between the professional extension
service and the masses of project area farmers.  The farmer foremen were
selected by senior project extension personnel, and were paid a small cash
wage for their part-time participation. In the three irrigation projects,
foremen were supervised by Extension Agents (EAs) at a ratio of about 6:1,
and the information they received from EAs was in turn passed on to ten
leading farmers in their village at fortnightly or weekly meetings. These
leading farmers were then expected to communicate with about 20 of their
neighbors. As this system was organized on a project basis, the EAs
reported directly to the Project Extension Officer. The system was pro-
grammed to reach 32,000 farm families (0.7% of Thailand's farm population)
under the three projects at full development.
2.19      The system outlined above has led to noticeable improvements in
extension work, largely through focussing attention on the importance of
an organized extension effort which reaches the majority of farmers.
Nevertheless, during the past two years some problems have arisen which
have indicated that dependence on farmer foremen on a continuous basis is
impractical. In particular, the progressive farmers who have been selected
as foremen usually cultivate farms of above average size, and thus have
not been available for full working days during busy times in the cropping
season when they are required on their own farms. After a careful review
of several alternatives, including various solutions to the problems
associated with the use of farmer foremen, the Government has decided not to
expand the system of farmer foremen to the rest of the country. Instead it
has chosen to improve the extension service through the employment of voca-
tional school graduates who would be engaged as full-time civil servants and
stationed in the villages. The extension agents would continue to use pro-
gressive farmers as their main contact with other farmers in the area.
Project Formulation
2.2C      The present project has developed from a perception shared by the
Government and the Bank that the increases in agricultural production
necessary for Thailand to feed itself while continuing to expand agricultural
exoorts must come largely from improved yields. While some new land is still
available, it is generally inferior to presently cultivated land in terms of
fertility and irrigability as well as location. In particular, most of the
land suitable for rice, the major food and export crop, is already in use,
and future production increases must come from higher output per ha. It was
further determined (Annex 3) that substantial increases in productivity
could be achieved for most presently cultivated crops in the various regions
of Thailand through an improved extension service alone, even without
increases in the use of purchased inputs or the production of new research
results. The gap between the present practices of the majority of Thai
farme-rs and known technology suitable for smallholder agriculture can be



-7 -
substantially reduced by an efficient and disciplined national extension
service organized to deliver that technology to the small farmers. However,
the importance of adaptive research, providing extension personnel with
further technology for obtaining improved yields and greater farm incomes is
acknowledged. The Bank is continuing a dialogue with RTG to determine how it
can best assist with further improvements in their research capability.
The present project would strengthen the DAE in terms of organization,
staffing, facilities and equipment to perform that task.
2.21      As the first phase of a national program the present project would
improve extension services in 33 of Thailand's 71 provinces, selected on the
basis of agricultural importance and administrative efficiency. The Govern-
ment intends to extend the proposed system to the rest of the country as
experience is gained under the present project and as implementation capacity
in the remaining provinces is improved. Although the number of provinces
included in the first phase of program is relatively large, it is still
within DAE's implementation capabilities. The following factors were instru-
mental in determining the size of the project: the momentum gained in
initiating the program in the four Northeast provinces; strong pressure from
the Provincial Governors to expand the program rapidly throughout all of
Thailand; the fact that both the extension and engineering consultants would
be engaged well in advance of the start of the project; and certain economies
of scale associated with a project of this type.
2.22      The 33 provinces selected for inclusion in this project are distri-
buted among the six extension regions of the country, and include about 2.8
million farm families or 60% of the national total. Through the DAE, the
project would eventually reach producers of most of the country's major field
crops. Where improved extension services have already been provided through
ongoing irrigation projects (para. 2.18), project extension services would be
maintained on present lines until the new extension service is established in
the project province, at which point the organization of the project services
would be changed to conform to the new national standard of one full-time
trained Extension Agent per 1,000 farm families. Project extension services
would then be completely integrated into the provincial and national programs.
The implermentation of the extension component of the Northeast Rural Develop-
ment Project, which involves four of the thirty-three provinces included in
this project (NIap No. 12068), would be accelerated to conform to the new
national program (Para. 3.14), and would adopt the agreed extension methodology
to be implemented on a national level. At full project development a fully
professional extension service of consistently high standards would therefore
be operating in most of the important agricultural areas of Thailand, and
would be reaching a majority of the nation's small farmers on a dependable
and regular basis.
2.23      The Department of Agricultural Extension and the Royal Thai Govern-
ment have clearly indicated their readiness to undertake this important
project.  They have already agreed to organizational reforms within DAE, to
appoint fulltime Extension Agents at the subdistrict level and to accelerate
implementation of the extension component in the NERD project. Furthermore,



-8-
budgetary allocations, staff appointments, procurement of equipment, construc-
tion of facilities and the engagement of consultants for the extension
program under the NERD project are in an advanced stage and will be completed
in 1977. Since the NERD program is patterned on the present project, its
implementation should provide the project with a good head start.
III. THE PROJECT
General Description
3.01      The proposed National Agricultural Extension Project would expand
and strengthen existing DAE extension services in 33 of Thailand's 71 pro-
vinces (Annex 1). The project would provide for:
(a) strengthening the headquarters organization of DAE and establishing
clear lines of command and coordination from the national level to
the districts;
(b) an increase in the number of extension staff;
(c) introduction of sound extension methodology with emphasis on
continuous training and regular farm visits;
(d) a program of local training for all extension workers along with a
limited number of fellowships and overseas training tours;
(e) construction of three new Regional Training Centers, 29 Provincial
Extension Centers, 285 District Extension Centers and about 600
houses for EAs;
(f) procurement of vehicles, equipment and furniture;
(g)  employment of agricultural and engineering consulting firms, an
individual consultant for project monitoring and short-term
specialist services totalling about 30 man-months; and
(h) project monitoring.
Organization of Agricultural Extension Services
3.02      The Director General of DAE would continue to be responsible for
planning, executing and evaluating extension services at the national level.
To improve DAE organizational structure at headquarters level, the two Deputy
Directors General have been allocated clear functional responsibility over
the headquarters extension and technical divisions, and a Senior Administra-
tive Officer has been appointed to supervise the headquarters administrative
divisions. At the same time, organizational links between headquarters and
field offices were strengthened by involving the Regional Extension Officers
directly in the chain of command (para. 2.08), and by allocating to them
supervisory responsibilities for the provincial extension services in their
respective regions.



3.03      The day-to-day direction and guidance of extension implementation
in the project provinces would rest with the Chief of the Extension Divis-
ion of DAE, who would be responsible to the Deputy Director General in
charge of extension services (Chart No. 16179). The construction and
procurement components of the project would be implemented by the Finance
Division under the Senior Administrative Officer.
Staffing
3.04      The project would include an expansion of DAE staff at various
levels and grades which would ensure that the agency has sufficient manpower
to fulfill its extension responsibilities by project completion (para. 4.10).
Achieving this goal would require appointment of over 2,800 new staff over
the implementation period, including 2,500 additional Extension Agents. The
result of this staffing program would be to increase the effective ratio of
EAs to farm families from 1:4,400 (para. 2.10) to 1:1,000. For each new
position, only the first two years' salary and allowances have been capital-
ized in total project costs (para. 3.17).
Extension Methodology
3.05      Implementation of the project would firstly be geared to the trans-
mission of simple improvements in low cost agricultural management practices
to the 2.8 million target farm families. Extension advice would concentrate
on the production of rice, cassava, maize, kenaf, and mung beans, although in
each region emphasis would initially be placed on one or two major crops.
Advice would cover the entire production cycle, including selecting appro-
priate seed varieties and seed sources, obtaining institutional credit at
reasonable interest rates, maintaining a correct, weed free plant stand,
selecting appropriate fertilizers and pesticides and applying them correctly,
and preliminary processing of output (i.e. chipping cassava or retting kenaf)
to a reasonable standard of quality to ensure marketability. M4ost of these
basic technical parameters are known in the majority of locations in Thailand,
although they have yet to be communicated to the farmers effectively. The
recommendations wouild be further refined to account for local variations
through demonstration and experimental trials in the course of project imple-
mentation. Some examples of recommendations for different crops in different
areas are presented in Annex 3.
3.06      Each Extension Agent would be responsible for about 10 villages,
ranging in practice between 7 and 15, or a total of about 1,000 farmers. In
each village he would select together with village authorities about 10
"contact farmers"; farmers who are respected by their neighbors and who are
receptive to improvements in agricultural technique, but are not necessarily
large, rich landholders. The EA would work mainly with the contact farmers
during his scheduled weekly or biweekly visits, in the course of which he
would demonstrate to them the practices which should be followed before the
next scheduled visit. After each visit, each contact farmer would be
responsib:Le for imparting the recommendations to about 10 neighbors or
relatives, whom he generally socializes with on a daily basis and often works
with cooperatively. The EA would also visit individual farmers outside the
contact farmer group, when time and circumstances permit, to ensure that



- 10 -
recommendations are being transmitted, understood, and followed to the
extent possible. The most important single objective would be to motivate
the contact farmers to adopt the new techniques, as their fields would
then become visual demonstrations of the efficiency of those techniques.
3.07      Every fortnight EAs and DEOs would attend a one-day technical
instruction session at the District Extension Center which would be conducted
by Subject Matter Specialists and other experts when required and available.
The sessions would mainly provide the practical information to be imparted to
the farmers in the next two weeks. During the first part of the day there
would be a lecture, followed by field work when participants would go through
all steps of the recommended techniques, and finally group discussions (Annex
7). During the next two weeks, the EA would convey this information to the
farmer groups, and the contact farmer would lay out a demonstration plot with
the assistance of the EA. Although all farmers would be invited to be present
during the EA's visit, the contact farmers would be expected to attend and to
pass on the substance of the instruction they receive to between eight and
twelve of their neighbors. EAs and DEOs would also attend seasonal instruc-
tion sessions to plan approaches for improving the subsequent cropping cycle.
3.08      The focussing of extension effort on a few critical practices
relating to the major local crops, and on aspects where the probability of
quick results is greatest - such as increasing the plant density of rice and
reducing the density for maize, or controlling insect attack on cotton would
prevent the effort being diffused too thinly and would improve the chances of
holding the interest and enthusiasm of both the farmers and the extension
workers.
Fellowships and Overseas Training
3.09      To improve the quality of extension staff, particularly the SMSs,
PEOs, and DEOs, an augmented fellowship and training program would be pro-
vided under the project.  The Government currently awards 30 undergraduate
scholarships annually to outstanding DAE staff. The project would supplement
this program with 50 postgraduate fellowships, including 40 to Thai Universi-
ties and 10 abroad. Recipients would be obligated to remain in the Government
service for twice the duration of their fellowships in accordance with
present regulations. A further 100 short-term study tours to Asian countries
such as the Philippines, India and Taiwan would be provided for outstanding
extension workers to observe innovative and successful farm practices and
extension work.
Regional Training Centers
3.10      Three new Regional Training Centers would be constructed under the
project at the regional headquarters of Songkhla (Southern Region), Rayong
(Eastern Region), and Nakhon Pathom (Western Region), to provide facilities
for medium-term training courses for extension field staff. Each Center
would include complete living quarters and classroom facilities for 60
students, an administration office, offices for Iecturers, store rooms, work-
shops and staff housing (totalling about 3,000 m in area for each Center),
as well as necessary furniture and equipment (Annex 6). Existing training



- 11 -
facilities in the Northeastern, Northern, and Central Regions would be
upgraded under the next phase of the extension program to similar size, to
enable them to function as Regional Training Centers for their respective
regions. These Centers, supplemented by the university system for specific
technical course requirements would, upon completion, provide adequate
training facilities for DAE staff in the project provinces. The Centers
would also be used to train contact farmers, special groups of seed growers,
leaders of iarmers' associations, etc., on an occasional basis.
Extension Centers and Housing
3.11      Twenty-nine Provincial Extension Centers and 285 District Extension
Centers would be constructed under the project. Each Provincial Extension
Center would contain about 300 m of floor space and would provide office
accommodation for about 20 provincial extension staff, a meeting hall, and
storage facilities for training and demons ration material.  District
Extension Centers would provide about 80 m of area, including office space
for about four district staff, a meeting room, and storage space for exten-
sion field equipment. In addition 600 low-cost houses (70 m in area) would
be constructed for EAs in remote areas, where housing is difficult to obtain.
All project buildings would be constructed to standardized designs similar
to those being utilized in the Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan
1198T-TH), which will provide 4 Provincial Extension Centers, 47 District
Extension Centers, and 30 staff houses in four Northeastern provinces.
Before decisions for new construction are made, a thorough review of existing
facilities would take place and where possible existing facilities would be
used, suitably repaired or altered. At project completion, each of the 33
project provinces and each of the 332 districts in those provinces would be
served by adequate extension facilities.
Vehicles and Equipment
3.12      Each of the 2,900 EAs in the project provinces would be provided
with small (100 cc) motorcycles to provide the mobility required to meet
their schedule of field visits (para. 3.06). Regional, Provincial and Dis-
trict Extension Offices would be provided with a total of about 760 vehicles,
including 600 light pick-up trucks for areas reasonably well served by roads,
110 four-wheel drive vehicles for more remote areas and 33 mini-buses to trans-
port personnel to training sessions, field days, etc. These vehicles would
be used for transporting training personnel and materials, and experiment and
demonstration equipment, inputs, and materials. Eight audio-visual units
which are long wheel-base four-wheel drive vehicles specially outfitted /1
for film presentation in remote villages, and 10 sedans for headquarters
staff and consultants, would also be included in the project. Government
workshops, which are available in most of the districts, supplemented by
private workshops where necessary, would be used for maintenance and repair
/I The equipment package and arrangement proposed for these units are based
on a design developed by UNDP, proven effective under field conditions
in Thailand.



- 12 -
of all project vehicles and equipment. RTG would make motorcycles, financed
under the project, available to DAE Extension Agents and other eligible staff
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Basic office and training furni-
ture and equipment would be provided for the Regional Training Centers and
Provincial and District Extension Centers to be constructed under the project,
and for existing Centers where they are lacking (Annex 9). The utilization
of and the need for video tape recorders and other audio-visual aids for
staff training purposes would be reviewed annually by Bank supervision
missions. This would ensure that equipment is used and maintained in a
satisfactory manner.
Design and Construction
3.13      A local engineering firm with expertise in architecture would be
employed in the site preparation and design of the Centers and houses, prep-
aration of tender documents and contracts, and supervision of construction of
the Centers. Project buildings would be constructed to existing Government
standard designs to the extent possible. Construction of houses for EAs in
the districts (para. 3.11) would be supervised by DAE.  The engineering firm
would also advise and assist DAE in the tendering and procurement of vehicles
and equipment (para. 3,12). Terms of reference for these consultants are
listed in Annex 5 and details on design and construction and supervision
procedures are presented in Annex 6. Sufficient suitable Government land is
available and an assurance was obtained that the Government would make this
land available to the project in a timely manner for each of the Center and
house sites.
Implementation Schedule
3.14      Project implementation would be phased over a five-year period,
with construction and procurement activities and staff appointments concen-
trated in the first four years. In the fifth year, the field extension
methodology and training programs would be phased up to full operating
levels in all project provinces under the supervision of agricultural
extension consultants (para. 4.17). The scheduling of the agricultural
extension component of the Northeast Rural Development Project would be
accelerated to complete construction of Provincial and District Extension
Centers and staff housing in Roi Et, Sisaket, Ubon Ratchathani and
Yasothon provinces in 1977 (Map 12068). Equipment, furniture, vehicles,
and extensions to those facilities would be provided under the present
project to maintain recently determined national standards, immediately
following completion of construction. In 1978, all facilities in the five
southern project provinces would be constructed, along with those in the
provinces affected by the Chao Phya Irrigation Projects, including five
provinces in the Central Region and one in the Western Region. In 1979 the
three remaining western provinces and seven northern provinces would be
completed. The construction program would be completed in 1980 in three
eastern provinces and five additional northeastern provinces. Two new
Regional Training Centers would be completed in 1978 and one in 1980 (Chart
No. 16178). Procurement of vehicles, equipment, and furniture would be
phased with staff appointments and with completion of construction.



- 13 -
3.15      Complete extension services for the entire province, including
staff appointments, initial staff training (Annex 7), the construction and
procurement program, and regular in-service staff training and farm visits
would commence in the year of inclusion in the project (para. 3.14). This
would ensure uniformity of service throughout the province from the year of
inclusion onwards. New staff would be appointed and trained in advance of
commissioning new extension centers. To ensure that adequate planning and
coordination of the various elements required for successful initiation of
extension activities accompanies the construction program, DAE would
prepare detailed annual implementation schedules. These would be forwarded
to the Bank for review before the end of each Thai fiscal year as part of
the normal progress reports.
Cost Estimates
3.16      Total project costs are estimated at US$56.5 million, of which
US$22.0 million or 39% is in foreign exchange. Estimates for construction
are based on recent construction costs of similar works in the project
provinces. Construction design and supervision costs are estimated at about
8% of construction costs. Cost estimates for vehicles, equipment and furni-
ture are based on recent price quotations. Incremental operating costs,
including two years' salaries for new staff positions and operating and
maintenance costs of project buildings and equipment are included in project
costs. Salaries are based on those current in the 1976 Thai fiscal year,
including appropriate housing, transport and subsistence allowances. All
prices are expressed at January 1977 levels. Because of the large number and
the wide geographical spread of centers and houses to be built and the uncer-
tainty of exact requirements for centers under the project, and the different
types of extension, training, and experimental equipment required for the
various agricultural enterprises in the provinces, physical contingencies of
20% are in,zluded for civil works, furniture and equipment. Expected price
increases due to inflation amount to about 20% of total project costs and
assume the following annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
Category                         1977-79        1980-82
Civil Works and Incremental Operating
Costs (excluding salaries)                 12             10
Equipment and Services                        8              7
SaLaries                                      5              5
3.17      Details of project costs, including the build-up of incremental
operating costs, are presented in Annex 8 and summarized below:



- 14 -
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   FE
-----(Baht million)---  ----(US$ million)----   (%)
Civil works                  110.4    73.6   184.0   5.4        3.6     9.0    40
Vehicles and equipment        20.2   164.2   184.4   0.9        8.1     9.0    90
Training and consultants    21.4    41.2    62.6   1.1          2.0     3.1    65
Incremental operating
costs                     388.1    49.9   438.0  19.1        2.4    21.5    11
Base cost estimate           540.1   328.9   869.0  26.5    16.1    42.6    38
Physical contingencies        22.4    27.9    50.3   1.1        1.4     2.5    55
Expected price increases   140.4    91.5   231.9   6.9         4.5    11.4    39
Total project cost           702.9   448.3 1,151.2  34.5    22.0    56.5    39
3.18      The estimated operating costs of the extension service in the 33
project provinces (at constant January 1977 price levels) for pre- and post-
project situations are shown below:
Preproject  Postproject  Incremental
------ ------(US$   '000)
Staff                                     3,000         10,700          7,700
Annual operating costs                    2,200          4,200          2,000
Replacement of capital investment           500          1,500          1,000
TOTAL           5,700         16,400         10,700
Annual operating costs here include the operation and maintenance of buildings,
vehicles, and equipment, cost of supplies and materials, and general head-
quarters overhead.
3.19      DAE's overall budget allocation for the 1977 Thai fiscal year
is US$19.7 million, as compared with US$12.5 million in FY76. About US$2.3
million of the FY77 budgetary allocation would be used to implement the
extension program in the four Northeast provinces under Loan 1198-T-TH.
Financing
3.20      The proposed Bank loan of US$28 million would cover about 50% of
total project costs, including the full foreign exchange costs (US$22 million)
and about 17% of the local costs of the project. Local currency financing is
justified in view of the difficulty of the project and the consequent need
for meaningful Bank involvement in the various elements of the project, and
because of the requirement for a project of sufficient size to encompass the
major agricultural areas, which in the absence of Bank assistance would not
be possible because of RTG budgetary constraints. RTG would provide the



- 15 -
remaining B 581 million (US$28.5 million).   In addition, the United States
Agency for International Development (AID) has committed a loan of US$3.0
million to assist the staff training activities of DAE (para. 4.15).
Procurement
3.21      Civil works contracts for the three Regional Training Centers (about
US$330,000 each), possibly grouped together with other Provincial and District
Extension Centers in suitable bid packages (totalling about US$500,000 each)
would be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts suitable for international competitive
bidding would total about US$2.0 million. It is expected that local contrac-
tors will be the successful bidders on all civil works contracts. Contracts
for construction of the 29 provincial extension centers (less than $50,000
each), and about 285 district extension centers (about US$9,000 each) and 600
houses (about US$5,000 each), with a total cost of about US$7.0 million would
not be suitable for international competitive bidding because individual
buildings are small and sites are spread out, both geographically and tempor-
ally. These contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. There is adequate competition among local contractors for works of
this kind and size. Assurances were obtained that all civil works would be
grouped tc' the extent practicable into contract packages worth the equivalent
of US$250,000 or more, to permit efficient execution and supervision.
3.22      DAE would be responsible for the procurement of vehicles and equip-
ment under the project. Standard items to be purchased in volume, including
about US$5.7 million worth of vehicles and US$1.5 million of equipment, would
be grouped in large contract packages (averaging about US$300,000) and
procured following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A preference margin limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. To permit
flexibility in procurement of off-the-shelf items, all such items costing
less than US$10,000 each but not exceeding US$250,000 in total would be
procured on the basis of prudent shopping, including a minimum of three price
quotations if possible. Specialized items to be purchased in small quanti-
ties, including such items as seeds, fertilizers, agro-chemicals, darkroom
equipment, drawing sets, kitchen and cafeteria equipment, and equipment for
field experiments and home economics, worth a total of about US$1.0 million,
and furniture worth a total of about US$0.8 million, would be purchased
following local competitive bidding procedures. A complete equipment list is
presented in Annex 9.
Disbursements
3.23      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment and against the ex-factory price
for equipment and materials manufactured locally, and at the rate of 65% of
total expenditures for imported equipment procured locally. For consulting
services, overseas training and fellowships, disbursements would be at 100%
.of total cost. Disbursements for civil works would be at 85% of total
expenditures, submitted by DAE after certification by the consulting firm.



- 16 -
It is expected that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1982.
An estimated schedule of expenditure and a semiannual disbursement schedule
are given in Annex 10.
Accounts and Audit
3.24      Assurances were obtained that DAE would maintain a central project
account covering all project expenditures at headquarters and provincial
levels and that auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be employed to audit
accounts annually. Audited financial statements together with the auditor's
comments would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each
financial year.
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The project would be implemented by the Department of Agricultural
Extension in the Ministry of Agriculture (para. 2.07). To ensure an effi-
cient internal organization at headquarters level capable of administering the
project, the nine divisions of DAE have recently been grouped into administra-
tive, technical, and extension services, with three divisions in each service
(Chart 16179). Administrative links between the field level and headquarters
have been strengthened by bringing the Regional Extension Officer into the
chain of command. The REOs would supervise the Provincial Extension Officers,
with the chain of command continuing as at present through the District
Extension Officers and the Extension Agents. This arrangement (Chart 16180),
would ensure that at each level officers would deal with a manageable number
of subordinates whom they know well.
District Extension Services
4.02      Field level extension services would be organized and directed from
the District Extension Center by the DEO who would be assisted by a Deputy
DEO if there are nine or more subdistricts in the district. Up to eight EAs
would be supervised by the DEO or Deputy DEO. Each EA would be responsible
for extension activities in about 10 villages, or about 1,000 farmers (para.
3.06). EAs would work through contact farmers. All EAs would be agricultural
generalists, trained in all farming subjects which are important in their
respective subdistricts. The DEO and Deputy DEO would spend about 75% of
their time in the field on their assigned districts, supervising and guiding
EAs on a regular basis. The rest of their time would be devoted to adminis-
trative duties and training programs.
4.03      SMSs from the province would function as trainers of all district
extension personnel and they would support them in their field work. The
field of specialization of SMSs would depend on the agricultural enterprises
in the district. They would plan demonstrations and experimental work in



-17 -
cooperation with local research staff and the PEOs, DEOs and EAs. SMSs
would spend about one-third of their time training EAs and others, another
third on research activities including contact with research staff and
institutions, and the remainder in the districts, assisting EAs, visiting
farmers' fields and demonstration plots, and generally keeping in touch
with the farm situation.
4.04      Field extension personnel would be relieved from most of the mis-
cellaneous statistical and regulatory duties they are now expected to per-
form. As far as possible, statistical and regulatory duties of field staff
would be limited to:
(a) collecting land-use and crop production statistics on
the basis of sample harvests and farm interviews with
village headmen; and
(b) recommending suitable seed growers and inspection of
seed crops.
Other regulatory duties would be carried out by provincial administrative
staff.
Coordination with Other Agencies
4.05      National Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Extension.  As has
been the case for several other externally financed projects, the Government
has established a National Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Extension
to coordinate the project implementation and extension activities of DAE with
related programs administered by other agencies affecting the supply of
inputs and irrigation water, the provision of credit, produce marketing and
land development. The Coordinating Committee is chaired by the Under Secre-
tary of State for Agriculture and includes representatives of concerned RTG
agencies, including the Ministries of Finance, Interior, and Commerce, the
Budget Bureau, the National Economic and Social Development Board, the Civil
Service Commission, the Marketing Organization of Farmers (MOF), the Ba-nk for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC), the Royal Irrigation
Department (RID) and the Departments of Agricultural Technology, Livestock
Development, and Land Development in the MOAC. The Director General of DAE
would present an annual extension work program (para. 4.16) to familiarize
participating agencies with extension activities, which would lead to an
exchange of views and improved coordination, particularly in regard to
budgetary appropriations and establishment of staff positions. The Committee
met in July and August 1976 and endorsed the project parameters outlined in
this report.
4.06      Provincial Agricultural Extension Coordinating Committee.   At
the provincial level formal coordination would be achieved through the
establishment of a Provincial Agricultural Extension Coordinating
Committee in each of the project provinces. These provincial coordinating
committees would be established before the province is brought into the
Project and it would coordinate the activities of the provincial agricul-
tural extension service with those of other agriculture-related organiza-
tions in the provinces. Similar coordinating committees have already
been established in Bank-financed agricultural projects and are working well.



- 18 -
The coordinating committee would meet prior to each cropping season under the
chairmanship of the Governor. Members would be drawn from the important
agriculture-related organizations in the province such as BAAC, MOF, RID and
other MOAC departments, cooperatives, and trade organizations. Meetings
would provide relevant information on all agricultural activities in the
province and would ensure a common understanding of each organization's
activities leading to greater cooperation between agencies.
4.07      Technical Advisory Panel.  In each of the project provinces a Tech-
nical Advisory Panel would be formed before the province is brought into the
Project. Members would be drawn from research, extension and other related
institutions in the province. They would meet when results from research,
extension trials and demonstrations are available after the cropping season.
The Advisory Panel would evaluate the experimental results and the overall
crop performance in the area and prepare a package of recommendations for the
extension service for the following season. The recommendations would be
forwarded to the REO and, when necessary, to MOAC for endorsement. When a
need for further research has been established, a recommendation for action
would be forwarded to the relevant research institution. The Directors
General of Livestock Development and Fisheries have agreed to participate
actively in joint extension activities in areas where extension responsibil-
ities overlap, and in particular would provide SMSs from their departments
to train and backstop DAE Extension Agents working with families who have
mixed farm enterprises.
4.08      Extension groups in irrigated areas would be organized in
tertiary canal units, conforming to the Water Users Association Groups
formed by RID. This grouping would allow close coordination between RID
and extension personnel and would encourage higher standards of maintenance
of irrigation and drainage canals. To foster closer cooperation and
become familiar with others involved with farming activities in irrigated
areas (RID, cooperatives, BAAC, etc.), staff of those agencies would be
invited to participate in relevant fortnightly technical instruction
sessions of EAs (para. 3.07).
Staffing
4.09      Existing, future and incremental staff requirements in the 33 pro-
vinces are shown in the following table:



- 19 -
Staff Complement
Designation                      Present    Required   Incremental
Head Office Staff (professional grades)         160          186           26
Regional Extension Officers                       6            6            -
Deputy Regional Extension Officers                -           12           12
Regional Training Officers                        6            6            -
Provincial Extension Officers                    33           33            -
Assistant Provincial Extension Officers          43           59           16
Subject Matter Specialists                       56          266/a        210
Provincial Training Officers                      -           33           33
Assistant Provincial Training Officers            -           66           66
District Extension Officers                     396          486           90
Extension Agents                                625        3,125        2,500
/a Includes 30 specialists in Home Economics.
Training officers at the regional and provincial levels would function as
administrative officers responsible for organizing technical instruction
sessions (para. 3.07) and training programs (paras. 4.11-4.14) for staff
members at various levels. In addition to the above staff complement about
1,100 support staff, such as accountants, secretaries, clerks, typists,
drivers and janitors are required in the regions, provinces and districts.
The phasing of staff build-up is presented in Annex 4. Assurances were
obtained that the Civil Service Commission would authorize the required staff
positions in line with the implementation of extension services in the
project provinces. All staff positions required for the accelerated NERD
extension program in the 1977 Thai fiscal year have already been authorized
and adequate funds for their employment are available (para. 3.19).
4.10      Adequate staff candidates are available from a long waiting list
of applicants for all extension positions and from graduates of universities
and vocational schools. In 1974 universities in Thailand provided a total of
99 Masters and 816 Bachelor degrees in agriculture-related subjects. In
addition to these, a considerable number of overseas trained graduates are
expected to return in the next few years. This level of qualification would
be suitable for the REOs, PEOs and SMSs to be recruited under the project.
Vocational schools with a five-year course provide about 850 graduates per
annum, and those with a three-year course about 1,600. These graduates would
qualify for positions as EAs. Many vocational schools are located in rural
areas, and where possible DAE would attract candidates for EA positions from
persons with a rural background and they would be placed in a locality
suitable t:o their background. Training Officers would be generalists, and
would usually be college graduates in nontechnical subjects.



- 20 -
Staff Training
4.11      On appointment, all staff assigned to the project would undergo a
two to eight week preservice orientation course in one of the Regional
Training Centers, or at any other available and suitable training facility.
Lecturers would be provided from the regular staff of the Training Centers
and guest lecturers would be drawn from MOAC, universities and other
suitable institutions when required. Operations of DAE and its relation-
ship with other departments and organizations would be explained and the
extension methodology would be taught in detail.
4.12      Each EA and DEO would undergo about two weeks of annual inservice
training either in one of the Regional Training Centers or in the Provincial
Extension Centers. Courses for EAs would stress the practical agricultural
problems faced by farmers in the region and technically simple solutions to
those problems. DEOs would spend more time on administrative problems and
practices. The course material for all medium-term training sessions would
be summarized in illustrated handbooks and all necessary training aids,
such as video-tape recorders, overhead projectors, movie projectors and
cassette tape recorders, would be used to convey the subject material
clearly to course participants. Where possible trainees would participate
in demonstrations to gain a full appreciation of the work involved.
4.13      Subject Matter Specialists would firstly attend an orientation
course, which would be followed by several more technical courses. Partic-
ular attention would be placed on the methods of presenting subject matter
in easily digestible fortnightly sessions to EAs. Course participants
would be divided into groups by specialization for technical training
programs. The first technical training course would be of about one
month's duration. One or two preseason short-term courses would be con-
ducted to review seasonal recommendations and to decide upon a uniform
approach to transfer recommendations via EAs to farmers. Medium-term
courses would be conducted in the Regional Training Centers by technical
experts from MOAC, other government agencies and universities. Short-
term courses would be held in Provincial Extension Centers, at research
establishments or in other available facilities.
4.14      Provincial Training Officers and their assistants would draw up
regular training rosters, select and engage lecturers, and ensure that
appropriate training aids would be available. They would further ensure
that other interested personnel such as officers from RID, the Land Devel-
opment Department, the Livestock Development Department, sugar extension
officers from sugarmills, and tobacco extension officers would be invited
to training sessions of common interest.
4.15      The US Agency for International Development (AID) has committed
a loan of US$3.0 million to provide technical assistance and materials in
support of the DAE training program. The AID loan would finance the em-
ployment of consultants who would assist DAE in preparing curricula, hand-
books, manuals, and films to be used in training courses. The loan would
also finance the printing of the required course materials, and part of the
incremental operating costs of the Regional Training Centers.



- 21 -
Annual Extension Programs
4.16      Annual agricultural production targets are set by the Minister
of Agriculture and Cooperatives. On the basis of these targets the
Director General of DAE, his deputies and technical advisors would prepare
the main extension targets for the service, taking into account the recom-
mendations of the Provincial Technical Advisory Panels (para. 4.07). Par-
ticular attention would be paid to guidelines from the Minister. Each
province would draft an annual provincial work plan using the recommenda-
tions from the Technical Advisory Panel and taking account of the main
national extension targets. The provincial work plan would then be con-
sidered by the REO and his SMSs. All regions would present their annual
work programs to head office in Bangkok where these would be discussed in a
meeting with the REOs and receive final approval of the Director General of
DAE before each cropping season. During program implementation progress
would be reviewed from time to time by the REO and the Chief of the Extension
Division. Extension consultants would assist with the preparation and
execution of the annual programs (para. 4.17).
Consultants
4.17      Agricultural Extension.  To assist with project implementation
DAE would engage an agricultural consulting firm which would provide a team
leader experienced in agricultural extension to assist in overall project
implementation at DAE headquarters and four additional experts to serve as
advisors to REOs. A total of 240 man-months of services would be provided
under this project. The team leader would assist the Deputy Director General
for Extension Services at the national level with the organization and
implementation of extension services in all project provinces. His services
would be required through 1981. The four other extension consultants would
assist REOs with all aspects of planning, organizing and implementing exten-
sion services in the regions, and would be stationed in their assigned
regions. One consultant would be required by June 1977, for the Northeastern
region, for a period of about 4-1/2 years. A further two consultants would
be requiried in October 1977 and the last consultant would be engaged by
October 11978. Draft terms of reference are presented in Annex 5. An assur-
ance was obtained that a firm of consultants would be engaged to provide the
services of five extension specialists on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
4.18      To assist DAE with specific crop husbandry problems and with
specialized staff training programs, 20 man-months of short-term consultant
services would be provided. Consultants would participate in extensive
lecture and demonstration tours in areas where their special services are
required.
4.19      Civil Works.  A local engineering firm would be engaged to assist
DAE in survey, design, contracting, and supervision of construction of
project civil works (para. 3.13). As the Northeast Rural Development Project
also provides for a local engineering firm to design and supervise the DAE
buildings included in that project, DAE intends to engage the same engineer-
ing firm for both projects to promote efficiency and speed of implementation.



- 22 -
Assurances were obtained that DAE would employ an engineering firm to design
and supervise construction of project buildings, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
4.20      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Project effectiveness would be gauged
from the results of a project monitoring program to be carried out by the
Policy and Planning Division of the Land Development Department or one of the
universities with the assistance of a consultant. Evaluation of the project
- including such aspects as the appropriate ratios of EAs to farm families
and DEO to EAs, frequency of EAs visits with the contact farmers and the
effectiveness of the extension methodology used - would be carried out contin-
uously by DAE through the Planning and Evaluation Section in the Secretariat.
The rate of adoption of new techniques and their effect on crop yields and
farm income would be determined from annual surveys to be carried out in
project provinces. The number of farmer interviews would rise from about
1,000 in year one to about 8,000 in year four, or a total of about 28,000
interviews in five years. The Policy and Planning Division or the university
would employ survey teams consisting of a supervisor, a team leader, about
nine enumerators and a driver. Each team would conduct about 1,000 interviews
per annum. The number of survey teams would increase from one in year one
(1977) to seven in years four and five. Surveys would be conducted between
mid-April and mid-June each year. Data would be analyzed by computer and
annual reports would be submitted to DAE and the Bank. The consultant would
assist the Division or university with the preparation and testing of ques-
tionnaires and the analysis and interpretation of data. The consultant's
services would be required for about three months per year for the duration
of the project. An assurance was obtained that DAE would arrange for project
monitoring along procedures agreed with the Bank, and would engage an expert
to assist in project monitoring on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      The project would reach nearly 2.8 million farm families, culti-
vating some 4.3 million ha of rice (54% of Thailand's total), and about
2.4 million ha of other food, oil, fiber and vegetable crops. Yields of most
crops are low and considerable increases could be achieved if farmers would
use available knowledge and inputs. All farmers would stand to benefit from
direct or indirect contact with extension workers, who would convey the most
practical and profitable advice for their crop production enterprise. Total
project costs would be about US$20 per farm family and incremental annual
operating costs, following project completion, would amount to about US$4 per
farm family or US$1.60 per ha.
5.02      Because of the nature of the project it is not possible to quantify
the benefits with precision. However, a hypothetical rate of return calcula-
tion is indicative of the order of magnitude of the benefits to be generated
by the project. In order to realize a 20% economic rate of return, the



- 23 -
incremental net value of production due to the project would have to amount
to about US$15 million per year by the seventh year of project development,
assuming a gradual build up of project benefits from 20% in year three to
100% in year seven. Translating these benefits into increased production,
they represent an average annual increase in paddy output of about 30 kg/ha
over the without-project case, if we assume that all benefits are to be
derived from paddy growing alone./I With a national average yield of
1.85 ton/ha compared to a potential 2.2 ton/ha using present knowledge and
limited inputs on rainfed paddy (Annex 1), an increase of 30 kg/ha should be
relatively easy to obtain. Even greater yields would be obtained if required
inputs were available and used. Considering the fact that many farmers grow
two paddy crops per year in irrigated areas, upland crops on nonpaddy soils
or secondary crops following the main rice crop, the potential benefit from
improved extension activities is considerably greater than that assumed for
paddy alone.
5.03      Although it is difficult to evaluate precisely how the project
benefits would be distributed between the very poor and less poor farmers,
the former stand to gain greater relative benefits from the project. In the
past, extension services have been provided mainly on request, and typically
the better educated and more affluent farmers with better contacts and
capital to invest in inputs have availed themselves of these services to a
much greater extent than have the masses of smallholders. As the project
is designed to reach all smallholders in the project provinces, no matter
how remote from provincial and district capitals, it is expected that the
gap in productivity between smallholders and better educated farmers would
be narrowed by the project.
5.04      Aside from the national economic benefits to Thailand, the project
would contribute to improving the world foodgrain situation. Thailand has
long been a major exporter of rice to the food-deficit regions of Asia, and
has recently become a major exporter of animal feed products (chiefly maize
and cassava products) to developed countries. Despite this performance, the
country has scarcely begun to make full use of its abundant land and water
resources for intensive agricultural production. In the absence of large
world food reserves or large reserves of agricultural land which could rapidly
be brought into production, a project aimed at increasing the productivity of
Thai agriculture is an important step toward improving the world food supply
outlook.
5.05      With a low investment and annual operating cost per family, which
could be easily justified even with a modest increase in yields, there are
no real risks concerning the viability of the project. Whatever risks are
associated with this project relate mainly to the rate and degree to which
extension recommendations would be adopted by farmers; these variables would
therefore come under continuous close scrutiny during project implementation
as part of the monitoring and evaluation program (para. 4.20).
/1 Benefit calculations are based on an average 1976 farmgate paddy price of
US$115 per ton and 4.3 million ha of paddy.



- 24 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following principal points:
(a) the Government would make land available to the project in a timely
manner for each of the Center and house sites (para. 3.13);
(b) civil works would be grouped to the extent possible into contract
packages worth US$250,000 or more (para. 3.21);
(c) DAE would maintain a central project account covering all expendi-
tures at headquarters and provincial levels and auditors satisfac-
tory to the Bank would be employed to audit accounts annually.
Audited financial statements together with the auditor's comments
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each
financial year (para. 3.24);
(d) the Civil Service Commission would authorize the required new staff
positions in line with the implementation of extension services in
the project provinces (para. 4.09);
(e) a firm of consultants would be engaged to provide the services of
five extension specialists on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para. 4.17);
(f)  DAE would employ an engineering firm to design and supervise con-
struction of project buildings, on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.l9); and
(g) DAE would arrange for project monitoring and evaluation to be
carried out through procedures agreed with the Bank, and would
engage an expert to assist in project monitoring on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.20).
6.02      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank Loan of US$28
million, with a 20-year maturity and grace period of 4-1/2 years. The
Borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.



ANNEX I
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Provincial Distribution of Project Beneficiaries
DAE's Region and Province        Agro-Ec.   Number    Number         Number   Approx. No.
Zone /a  Districts  Subdist.   Villages  Farm Families lb
('000)
North East
1.  Ubon Ratchathani               2           18         181         2,011          214
2.  Yasothon                       2            6          57            612          51
3.  Roi-Et                         3           13         126         1,561           98
4.  Kalasin                        3           13          67            804          91
5.  Khon Kaen                      3           14         124          1,572         159
6.  Sisaket                        4           10         137          1,395         133
7.  Buriram                        4           11          93         1,376          129
8.  Chaiyaphum                     5           11          81            843          98
9.  Nakhon Ratchasima              5           19         178         2,253          221
Subtotal                         115        1,044        12,427        1,194
North
10.  Nakhon Sawan                   6           12         109         1,009          115
11.  Uthai Thani                    6            6          55            390          31
12.  Phitsanulok                    8            8          75            684          78
13.  Phichit                        8            6          70            565          68
14.  Lampang                        9           11          81            584          91
15.  Sukhothai                      9            8          70            504          71
16.  Chiang Mai                    10           19         166          1,323         144
Subtotal                          70          626         5,059          598
Central
17.  Sara Buri                      7           11         103            898          41
18.  Lop Buri                       7            6          85            801          64
19.  Sing Buri                     11            6          41            331          24
20.  Chainat                        11           6          44            375          41
21.  Ang Thong                      11           7          67            467           31
Subtotal                          36          340         2,872          201
West
22.  Suphan Buri                    11           9          94            665          84
23.  Nakhon Pathom                  11           6          98            775          48
24.  Ratchaburi                     12           9          95            783           42
25.  Prachuab Khiri Khan            12           7          33            251          32
Subtotal                          31          320         2,474          206
East
26.  Prachin Buri                   13          11          82            802           61
27.  Chacheongsao                   13           7          86            739           41
28.  Chon Buri                      15           8          80            571           50
Subtotal                          26          248         2,112          152
South
29.  Surat Thani                    17          16         103            675           64
30.  Phatthalung                    17           4          48            435           45
31.  Songkhla                       17          10         114            891           92
32.  Nakhon Si Thammarat            17          15         133          1,012          143
33.  Pattani                        19           9         107            552           50
Subtotal                          54          505         3,565          394
Total                             332       3,083        28,509        2.745
Total Thailand      (71 Provinces)                                             4,600
/a For agricultural development planning purposes, the country has been divided
along provincial boundaries into 19 Agro-Economic Zones based on similarities
in soil type, rainfall, temperature, type of farm and principle farm income
(Annex 3).
/b National Economic Development Board: Population and Housing Census 1970,
updated to end 1976.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
The Existing Agricultural Extension Service
Organization and Staffing
1.        The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC), is charged with the execution
of extension services for most agricultural crops to the 4.6 million Thai farm
families. Within MOAC the Departments of Livestock Development, Fisheries,
Land Development and Cooperative Promotion (Chart No. 15659) provide these
services for animal husbandry and pasture, forage production, aquaculture,
land development and the agricultural cooperatives respectively. The Tobacco
Monopoly operates an efficient extension service for tobacco growers, the
Rubber Replanting Aid Fund provides extension to smallholders' estates until the
second year of tapping in rubber replanting schemes and some sugar factories
provide a rather inadequate extension service to farmers growing cane on
contract. In some areas extension services overlap considerably, e.g., the
Department of Land Development also conducts rice demonstrations on contoured
or graded areas.
2.        DAE is headed by a Director General assisted by two deputies.
There are presently nine divisions, each with a number of sections. The
divisions are: secretarial, personnel, finance, agricultural administrative
development, agricultural relations, crop promotion, plant protection, irri-
gation and seed multiplication. As the divisions do not currently report
to the Deputy Directors General, and as no senior officer supervises and
coordinates the work of the administrative divisions on a full-time basis,
considerable duplication of effort exists. The allocation of distinct super-
visory responsibilities to senior officials would make operation of the head
office much more efficient than at present.
3.        Agricultural extension services under DAE are organized through six
geographic regions in 71 provinces (changwat) and 620 districts (amphur).
Regions have from six (Eastern) to sixteen (Northeastern and Northern) pro-
vinces. There are on an average nine districts in each province (ranging from
four to nineteen). Within each district there are from seven to fifteen
subdistricts (tambon) and each subdistrict has about ten villages (muban) with
an average of about 100 farm families each.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The administrative and technical line of command is from
the Director General of DAE assisted by the two Deputy Directors General
through the Provincial Extension Officer (PEO) and then to the District
Extension Officer (DEO). The Regional Extension Officer (REO) is directly
responsible to the Director General, and is not at present in the chain of
command toD the provinces. He and his staff can provide little guidance to
provincial services due to insufficient qualified extension personnel and
lack of equipment and vehicles at regional offices. Consequently, work at
the regional level is almost solely restricted to the training of provincial
staff and the provision of plant protection services.
5.        There is one REO and from nine to eleven Subject Matter Specialists
(SMSs) in each Region. They assist with the training of provincial extension
personnel. The plant protection unit under the REO in each region (not yet
established in the Northeast) consists of one head and four graduate assis-
tants. Each unit has about 55 operators of plant protection equipment. The
REO also has a small administrative staff.
6.        PEOs and their assistants supervise the district extension
services. In each provincial office there are on an average ten extension
and administrative personnel and one SMS. A few of the lower grade exten-
sion officers assist with the collection of statistical information. Others
also assist with seed multiplication and distribution. Staff at the pro-
vincial level generally have little direct contact with farmers in the
field and are to a large extent involved in receiving farmer delegations
who want to make credit applications for their groups, or request special
privileges such as getting free seeds or planting material.
7.        PEOs and their staff operate from the Governor's central
provincial office, where they usually have one room in which a number
of desks compete for space with bags of seeds, packages and bottles
of agro-chemicals, sprayers and a rack of leaflets. DEOs are equally
poorly accommodated but in some districts there is a small storage
building in which a desk has been installed. There is a distinct need
for separate and adequate accommodation for extension personnel at
provincia,l and district levels.
8.        There is one DEO in each district and in one out of five
districts there is an assistant DEO. On an average there are less than
two Extension Agents (EAs) per district. With the DEO mainly engaged in
administrative and regulatory tasks, almost all direct farmer contact is
made by EAs, who also have some administrative tasks. The effective ratio
of EA:farmer is only about 1:4,400. Most EAs and DEOs are from an urban
background and their recommendations are often impracticable and not
always readily accepted by farmers.
9.        EAs provide most cropping statistics in conjunction with the
village headman (phuyaban) and they work on regulatory tasks with regard
to disease and plant control, seed multiplication, credit applications



ANNEX 2
Page 3
and produce marketing. They assist with the formation and operation of
farmer associations, rural youth groups and sometimes home economics
groups. These activities may require more than half of their time.
10.       Farmers are not contacted systematically and the number of
farm visits is limited due to lack of transport for extension personnel.
Farm visits are usually made following special requests by farmers who
have a specific problem. Groups of farmers are usually contacted by DEOs
and EAs only for special extension efforts, such as establishing Farmer
Associations, promoting a new rice variety, increasing the area of corn,
emergency pest control, water management problems, etc. There are not
enough field demonstrations laid out in farmers' fields from which farmers
could observe the value of planting new varieties or applying pesticides
or fertilizers.
11       The professional staff complement of DAE is 2,365 in six salary
grades. Less than half are in direct contact with farmers. The total exten-
sion budget of DAE has increased from US$7.85 million in the Thai fiscal year
1974 to US$11.87 million in 1975 and to US$12.46 million in 1976. In the 1976
fiscal year this amounted to about US$2.70 per farm family (4.6 million) and
about US$0.70 per ha of cultivated land (18.8 million ha).
12.       Extension budgets for the 33 project provinces (excluding special
projects such as Chao Phya I (Cr. 379-TH) have gradually increased from
US$1.29 million in 1974 to US$1.63 million in 1975 and US$2.17 million in
1976, indicating that the Thai Government has already made an effort to
provide increased allocations for provincial extension services. Budgets
are made available to the Provincial Extension Officer through the Governor
at four-monthly intervals.
Training and Research
13.       Training programs for DEOs and EAs are held at irregular
intervals, are not always on topical technical subjects and are often
mainly oriented towards extension methodology. The training is not directly
tailored to the farmers' most urgent needs. Extension personnel are,
therefore, insufficiently prepared to convey topical information in an
efficient manner to the farmers.
14.       There is little formal liaison between extension, research and other
related agricultural activities. An attempt has been made to formalize liaison
through the Regional Agricultural Centers, which are operated directly under
the Under Secretary of State for Agriculture (Chart 15659) at Khon Kaen in the
Northeast, Chiang Mai in the North and Chainat in the Central Region. A formal
but infrequent exchange of information takes place but the program has not
been effective, since the staff of the Agricultural Centers are mainly research
oriented and not involved in extension activities. There is no formal exchange
of information or viewpoints at the provincial and district level.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
15.       There is an acute shortage of SMSs at the provincial level.  Their
presence is urgently required to provide regular training and technical support
for EAs. Technical support consists of problem identification and advice on
specific farming practices. The few SMSs are not sufficiently mobile, have
inadequate time to keep themselves informed of new developments and research
results, and are insufficiently available for training purposes, trouble
shooting and general field observation.
16.       Due to irregular and ineffective contact between research
and extension personnel, lack of regular, topical technical training
programs and insufficient SMSs, it has not been possible to provide
EAs and DEOs with the latest information regarding crop production
techniques and managerial aspects of farming. This has led to out-
of-date or ineffective recommendations to farmers.
Extension in Irrigation Projects
17.       Through Bank supported irrigation projects (Credits 379-TH and
461-TH and Loan 1149-TH) an improved agricultural extension service was
introduced, whereby part-time farmers foremen, selected by the senior
project extension personnel from the more enterprising and knowledgeable
farmers in the area, met on a weekly or fortnightly basis with about ten
leading farmers in the village. In turn, the leading farmers were expected
to convey the information transmitted by the foremen to about 20 of their
neighbors. The ratio of foremen to farm families was about 1:200.
Foremen were supervised by EAs at a ratio of about one EA to six or seven
foremen. All EAs reported to the Project Extension Officer. Through the
irrigation projects about 32,000 farm families would have been reached
when the service was fully implemented in all projects. The service was
targeted to specific project areas and not along district or provincial
boundaries, and it would have covered only 0.7% of all farm families in
Thailand.
18.       Farmers foremen and EAs received regular fortnightly training
from the available regional and provincial SMSs, research officers from
experimental farms or research stations in the area and from other lecturers
with relevant expertise. Training was on topical subjects and highly
practical. Foremen assisted the leading farmers with establishing demon-
stratiorn plots in which new techniques were demonstrated, initially
concentrating on those subjects in which speedy improvements in yields and
farmer earnings could be obtained. This usually involved those subjects
in which the greatest gap exists between proven research results and local
farm practices. In rice areas the greatest emphasis was on planting new
high-yielding, adapted varieties, using the correct fertilizer in a timely
manner and insecticides when required.
19.       The use of part-time farmers foremen has been encouraging in conveying
improved practices and new technology to fellow farmers. The adoption rate of



ANNEX 2
Page 5
new varieties and fertilizer usage is increasing and the methodology of
extension, providing frequent farmer contact with extension workers who
use and demonstrate new technology on farmers' fields, has been accepted
by DAE. Several problems with the system have arisen which require
solution:
(a) The poorly remunerated farmers foremen were not available
for full working days during busy times in the cropping season as they
had to work on their own farms. It has therefore been necessary to
reduce the extension duties of foremen to only three or four working days
per week, including a full day training session of one day per fortnight.
This new arrangement has reduced the effectiveness of foremen considerably
since shorter or less frequent visits are made to farmer groups. It is
further envisaged that at a later stage, when the gap between known
technology and adopted practices by farmers narrows, the limited education
of foremen (only primary school or less) will be insufficient to cope
with the more advanced technology which has to be applied to gain further
increases in crop yields. This led to the conclusion that it would be
preferable to employ only full-time extension personnel on a permanent
basis.
(b) EAs, as supervisors of foremen, were appointed and trained
in project areas, but when they became effective supervisors they were
transferred to other areas. This led to constant changing of inexperienced
supervisory staff. From this experience it was concluded that permanent
supervisory staff at the district level would have advantages over temporary
project staff.
(c) Due to a lack of provincial SMSs, the project extension
services have relied on regional SMSs and specialists from the Depart-
ment of Agricultural Technology for training and advising EAs and foremen.
The services of these officers have not always been available to the
project extension service a=- it has been extremely difficult to provide
trainers on a regular basis. It has been concluded that DAE must appoint
provincial SMSs to serve as regular trainers and technical advisors for
extension perso-nnel at the district level.
20.       With the assistance of senior project personnel, close coopera-
tion between research and extension has developed in the present project
areas. Research officers from the various research stations and experi-
mental farms assist extension personnel with the planning, execution
and data collection of the many experiments and demonstrations laid out in
the farmers' fields and they lecture to EAs in the fortnightly training
sessions. This cooperation greatly assists extension personnel in formula-
ting the correct recommendations and it provides the research workers with
the opportunity to test their findings under field conditions. This close
cooperation with research needs to be continued and expanded to other
organizations.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Agriculture in Project Provinces
Physical Environment
1.        Thailand's geographic location makes the Kingdom suitable for
equatoriaL, tropical and subtropical crop growth. This climate range,
in combination with Thailand's mountains, valleys, terraces and plains,
comprises a broad agricultural production potential. Based on similar-
ities in soil type, rainfall, temperature, farm type and dominant farm
income, Thailand has been divided into 19 distinct agro-economic zones.
2.        Thailand's agriculture is mostly based on rain-fed water
supplies. The southern equatorial zone receives an abundant and regular
rainfall. Here upland crops may be grown twelve months in the year but
rice requires supplemental irrigation from December to mid-March. From
south to naorth the rainfall distribution becomes more distinctly
associated with the tropical wet and dry seasons and the amount gets
progressively less, although adequate for six to eight months crop
productiona. The rainfall pattern is closely associated with the two major
wind systems. The southwest monsoon - mid-May through September - brings
heavy rainfall to exposed western slopes, light rainfall to sheltered
lee slopes and moderate rainfall to the remaining sections. The number
of rainy days varies widely, from twenty to twenty-five days at exposed
locations to as few as three days per month in sheltered locations. The
northeast monsoon - November to mid-March - results in dry weather to all
but peninsular Thailand. Most locations experience less than three days
of rainfall per month in December through March, with peninsular locations
recording up to fifteen days. The spring intermonsoon (mid-March to
mid-May) and the autumn intermonsoon (the month of October) are periods
of rapid change in the rainfall pattern and rainy days vary from as
little as one to over twenty days per month.
3.        High temperatures are experienced throughout the year.  Maxima
reach their peak in March and April when afternoon temperatures range
from about 35 to 40 C. In the extreme northern parts and in peninsular
Thailand, afternoon maxima are 33 to 34 C. Lowest temperatures occur in
December and January when minimum temperatures average about 10 C in
extreme northwest sections and rise gradually to about 23 0C in peninsular
Thailand.
4.          Differences in daylength between winter and summer months vary
from forty-two minutes in southern Thailand (lat?tude 6 N) to two hours and
twenty six minutes in northern Thailand (20 N). Photoperiod sensitive plants
would remain vegetative in the south and, therefore, only relatively nonsensi-
tive types can be grown, while the long and short day periods with tempera-



ANNEX 3
Page 2
ture interactions in the north are suitable for growing a greater variety
of crops.
5.        Major Geographic Regions.-/ Four natural regions are delineated
by Thailand's arrangement of mountains, plains and rivers: the Northern
Region, with about 170,006 sq km which is mainly mountainous; the Central
Region of about 103,579 sq km contains the fertile and populous basin of
the Chao Phya River; the Northeast Region with about 170,226 sq km,
comprises mainly the Korat Plateau; and the Southern Region (peninsular
Thailand) with about 70,189 sq km, extends some 800 km south to Malaysia.
Crop production patterns are different in each region because of the
local soil conditions, climate and economics and, therefore, their
potentials for crop development vary.
6.        The Northern Region is made up of a series of parallel north-
south mountain ridges and deep, narrow alluvial valleys providing tropical,
subtropical and some close similarities to a temperate zone climate,
especially at the higher elevations. The soil fertility level is moderate
with some fertile and infertile areas. The elevation in the valleys
ranges from approximately 152 m to 416 m. Mount Inthanon rises 3,595 m
above sea level. The daylength varies from 13 hours, 21 minutes in June
to 10 hours, 56 minutes in December. These factors provide the potential
for certain temperate zone crops. Optimum conditions exist here for good
soybean yields, tuber development of white potatoes, bulb development of
onions, runner development of strawberries, stem elongation of spinach,
good pigmentation of tomatoes, and seed production of cruciferous and
other vegetables. Rainfall distribution follows the tropical wet-dry
monsoon pattern that delivers between 1,020 and 2,160 mm of precipitation
from April to mid-October depending on the locality.
7.        There are thick forests with valuable timber on the ridges and
slopes. Land clearing for the shifting, slash-and-burn cultivation is
converting large tracts of the highlands into subsistence farmlands.
Upland rice, maize, beans, some wheat, bananas, papayas, potatoes, chili
peppers and several other kinds of fruits and vegetables are produced in
the highlands.
8.        Rice is the main crop in valleys and flood plains during the
rainy season. Upland rice, groundnuts, soybeans, mung beans, sesame and
vegetables are the main crops on the terraces. In the southern area,
maize and cotton are also grown. In the dry season, rice, soybeans, mung
beans, groundnuts, sesame, tobacco and cool season vegetables are grown
on irrigated lands.
9.        The Central Region containing the basin of the Chao Phya River,
stretches from the foothills of the northern mountains to the Gulf of Siam.
1/ Geographic Regions are not identical to the DAE Regions (Annex 1).
The geographic Central Region includes most of the West and East of DAE.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The low gradient of the rivers from north to south makes this region a
basin that drains slowly into sluggish streams, which flood farmlands and
towns each year. Temperatures do not fluctuate much and are suitable for
tropical crops. Rainfall is lowest (750-1,000 mm) on the west side of a
north-south belt in the lee of the Bilauktaung Range. From the west side
of the Central Region, precipitation increases gradually eastwards to the
Chao Phya River system (1,000-1,250 mm), thence to the undulating plains
and foothills on the windward (west) side of the Petchaboon Mountain
(1,250 - 1,875 mm). In the extreme southeast part of the Central Region,
there is year-round precipitation (2,674-3,261 mm) similar to that in the
equatorial belt of south Thailand. The soil fertility level of most of
the area is moderate to low. An exception to this is a strip of medium
to high fertility soil extending about 400 km from just south of Sara Buri
up to Uttaradit, varying in width from 25 to 50 km. From the east
side of Nakhon Pathom province to the the west side of Chachoengsao pro-
vince thiere extends a pocket of acid sulphate soils. It is about 175 km
long (east to west) and 25 km wide. Only low-yielding rice is grown on
this soil area. The broad expanse that lies between the mountains on the
Burmese border and those on the Khmer border contains rolling foothills,
gently sloping plains, river levees and basins with transition slopes
between the levees. The basins, mainly because they cannot be adequately
drained, are restricted to rice growing. The foothills, plains, river
levees and transition slopes are now used for upland rice, paddy rice,
maize, beans, pineapple, sugarcane, cassava and vegetables.
10.       The Northeast Region comprises almost one-third of the Kingdom's
total area. It is a large plateau sloping gradually to the north and east
towards the Mekong River. It is rimmed on the west by the Petchaboon
Mountains, with peaks up to 1,220 m; on the north and east by the
Mekong River separating it from Laos; and on the south by the Phonam
Dongrak Range, a mountain chain rising up to 762 m on the Khmer
border. Temperatures are slightly higher than those for the Northern
Region. The lowest rainfall is in a dry pocket in the lee of the
Petchaboon Mountains. Precipitation increases progressively to the
perimeters on the north, east and south boundaries. Low soil fertility
and poor moisture holding capacity of the soils limit agricultural
production during the period of low rainfall. The most extensive soil
type is a sandy loam that frequently becomes waterlogged in the rainy
season and dries out to considerable depth in the dry season. The
soil fertility is moderate to low. Rainfed rice is the main crop on
this soil. The undulating plains and the river terraces provide drained
areas for diversified cropping (kenaf and cassava) during the rainy
season. Many areas would be suitable for the production of tropical
legume pastures and livestock enterprise. Generally, the soils of the
northeast are highly responsive to fertilizers, but high risks are
involved where the waterholding capacity is low. Besides rice, kenaf
and cassava, maize, sorghum, sugarcane, beans, bananas, pineapple, and
unimproved pastures are grown.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       The Southern Region extends from Chumphon province to the
Malaysian border. The width of the peninsula is in some areas less than
20 km. The region is mountainous with narrow valleys cut by turbulent
streams flowing to the coast. In the south, the peninsula is divided by
a mountain range. The climate is mainly equatorial. Rubber is the main
crop but rice, coconut and tropical fruits are also grown. Soils are
mainly sandy, often shallow and sometimes stony. They extend from the
foothills to the sea and are highly responsive to fertilizers. Valley
floors have good quality loam soils suitable for a wide range of crops.
Agricultural Production
12.       Maize, cassava products and rice are the principal export
products. Their total export value was about US$1,200 million per annum
in 1974 or almost half the country's total export earnings. Cassava
products and maize exports exceeded 2 million tons each and rice exports
were in excess of one million tons. Sugar, rubber and kenaf/jute fibres
were the other significant agricultural export products.
13.       Area and average yields of the major crops are tabulated for
each Project province in Table 1. Maize and sorghum are concentrated
in the upper half of the Central Plain. About 80% of the cassava is
located in the eastern portion of the Central Plain. Kenaf is mainly
grown in the Northeast. Rice is grown in all regions, but the surplus
for export is mainly drawn from production in the Central Plain. Sugar-
cane and cotton are located mostly in the central, western and eastern
provinces. Rubber is almost exclusively grown in the southern peninsula.
Rice
14.       About 7.3 million ha are planted to rice during the wet season
and another 240,000 ha are planted in irrigated areas during the dry
season. The national average yield is about 1.7 ton/ha, varying from
2.2 ton/ha on 1.5 million ha in the northern region to a low 1.4 ton/ha
from 3.1 million ha in the northeast. Nonglutinous varieties are grown
on 65% of the total area with glutinous varieties on the other 35%. The
latter are mainly grown in the northeast and the north and contribute
very little to the export quantity. About 1.6 million ha or about 22%
of the total rice area is irrigated and a recent Irrigation Program
Survey Mission has estimated that the benefit of wet season supplementary
irrigation is about 1 ton/ha paddy. This benefit is attributable to an
adequate supply of water and a better usage of inputs, new varieties and
the use of more modern cultural techniques. About 88% of all paddy is
transplanted with the remainder being broadcast, mainly with floating or
deepwater rice varieties in the poorly drained Chao Phya basin. Most rice
in the northeast and the north is produced on bunded land under rainfed
conditions, while a relatively small area is grown as true upland rice
without bunding.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
15.       Mechanization of soil preparation is increasing, especially
on the larger holdings in irrigated areas and in deep-water areas.
However, much of the paddy area is still cultivated by buffalo and hand
labor. Fertilizer usage is mainly restricted to areas with reliable
water supplies and where HYVs are used. The use of HYVs such as the RD
series is also restricted to reliable water supply areas. Many of the
traditional Thai varieties are highly adapted to the local climatic and
waterdepth situation.
16.       Average rice yields are low, compared with other countries in
the tropics and there is considerable scope for yield increases, although
there are fairly severe limiting climatic restrictions in many areas.
ParticulEtr attention must be placed on: the selection of the most
suitable varieties with resistance to the major diseases and pests;
correct timing of sowing, transplanting and soil preparation; use of
fertilizers, mainly nitrogen in the Central Plain and also phosphorous
and potash in other areas; weed control, mainly by hand weeding, hand
tools or low cost herbicides; control of pests, vermin and birds; improved
water management and selecting the correct cultural technique (row
transplanting or row seeding, allowing mechanical weed control). Wet
season average yields of 3 ton/ha paddy would be possible in irrigated
areas. W4ith HYVs and the correct and timely usage of fertilizers and
agro-chemicals it has been possible to produce 5 and 6 ton/ha in the wet
season. The use of direct seeding appears to have distinct promise in
the northeast when suitable varieties are used and seeding takes place
in a timely manner.
Maize
17.       The maize area has increased greatly since 1950.  Area expan-
sion was due to favorable export markets to which private enterprise
responded, the introduction of higher yielding varieties, and the develop-
ment of roads which facilitated marketing the crop. Yields have averaged
around 1,800 kg/ha kernels but considerable annual fluctations occur,
mainly due to soil moisture conditions and insect damage. Yields are
higher than those obtained with similar low input cultural practices else-
where, which is ascribed to the use of new land, a generally favorable
climate and widespread use of high yielding varieties. However, with
further improvement in crop husbandry techniques leading to a full plant-
stand and the use of fertilizers and pesticides, considerably higher
yields can be achieved.
Sorghum
18.       The sorghum area is relatively small.  The crop is grown in the
same low cash input manner as maize and higher yields could quite easily
be obtained by using better crop husbandry techniques, fertilizers,
agro-chemicals and improved varieties. An expansion in area is envisaged
and yields of 2,500 to 3,000 kg/ha would be feasible.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Cassava
19.       This crop is relatively free of pests and diseases and is
resistant to drought and excessive rainfall. Cassava cuttings are
planted from May to September and harvested from 12 to 16 months later.
The crop is highly responsive to fertilization but in practice very
little or none is used. Yields average about 14.5 ton/ha of roots.
Successive crops of cassava are often planted but after four consecutive
plantings are made, the soil is completely exhausted and needs fallowing.
With the use of fertilizers (N, P and K) and good cultural techniques,
yields of 20 to 50 ton/ha with good flour content are attainable.
Cassava roots are made into chips and flour for export. There is also an
increased usage of leaves for fodder production.
Oilseeds
20.       The major oilseed crops are groundnuts, soybeans, castor
beans and sesame. They occupy a total area of about 180,000 ha in the
project provinces. Groundnuts are grown in most provinces, soybeans are
mainly concentrated in the province of Sukhothai and in some other
northern provinces. Castor beans and sesame are mainly located in the
north. Castor beans are grown as a perennial crop. The other oilcrops
are well suited for multiple cropping and for rotational cropping with
rice on suitable soil. Use of improved varieties and fertilizers, better
soil preparation and improved weed and pest control would increase yields
of all of these crops.
Mung Beans
21.       These popular edible beans are widely grown, both on higher
soils as a monoculture or in rotation with rice or maize. Yields average
900 kg/ha. With greater care in crop cultivation, higher yields are
attainable, but substantial yield increases are only possible with the
development of higher yielding varieties of good quality seed and even
maturity.
Fibre Cros
22.       Kenaf is the main upland crop in the northeast and occupies
some 380,000 ha in the Project provinces. Its continuous cropping has
caused a serious depletion of soil fertility and declining yields which
now average about 850 kg/ha of fibre. Extension would have to focus on
maintaining soil fertility, prevention of erosion and other sound
cultural practices. Jute is grown in only small areas on wet, low lying
soils. Its fibre yield is a little lower than that of kenaf. The key
problem with kenaf and jute is associated with fibre quality. Timely
harvesting and correct retting procedures must be followed to obtain a



ANNEX 3
Page 7
good quality fibre. Further efforts must also be made to improve fibre
grading techniques. Cotton is mainly concentrated in the province of
Sukhothai where some 30,000 ha are grown with yields of about 1,100
kg/ha. The heavy costs involved in combating pests have prevented a
further increase in the cotton area. There is a clear need for insect
resistant varieties or low cost systemic insecticides that remain effective
for long periods and are not harmful to beneficial insects or the environment.
Sugarcane
23.       Smallholders and factory plantations in Chon Buri produce
almost half of Thailand's sugar output. In many other areas sugarcane
is grown mainly for the manufacture of sugar but considerable quantities
are used for chewing, fresh juice and alcohol production. Some factories
have their own extension officers but they reach few farmers. There is
considerable scope for improvement in the present average cane yield of
about 50 ton/ha. Extension personnel would recommend the most suitable
high-yielding varieties, good soil preparation, correct time and spacing
of planting, correct and timely usage of fertilizers, irrigation water
and pest control measures and a timely harvest and delivery of cane to
the factory.
Research, Inputs, Credit and Marketing
24.       Agricultural research is conducted at well over 100 research
stations and experimental farms, widely distributed over the major
agro-economic regions of Thailand. Much of the research work is planned
and controlled by staff based in Bangkok but executed by research workers
in the field who receive inadequate support services. This has led to
an overcentralized research effort which is not always tailored to the
needs of the areas for which it is intended. Although agricultural
research needs to be strengthened and clearly focused there are many
local and overseas research results immediately applicable to the majority
of farms. The gap between technology and the present standard of
farming needs to be bridged and an effective extension service would be
able to achieve this to a considerable extent when the required inputs
(seed or planting material of new varieties, fertilizers, agro-chemicals)
could be made available at a reasonable cost and farmers are able to
dispose of their products at profitable prices. Even without the use of
expensive inputs there is considerable scope for increased productivity
through improved, timely cultural techniques and by using the best
adapted high yielding varieties.
25.       In October 1974 the Market Organization for Farmers (MOF) was
established with the following main objectives: (a) to procure and
distribute fertilizers to farmers; (b) to provide a marketing channel for
the 90% of farmers who are not members of cooperatives; (c) to administer
price support programs for major crops; and (d) to stabilize wholesale
prices by setting up a central market for vegetables, fruits, meat and
rice. Under this organization some US$17.5 million was utilized in
FY75 for the distribution of 150,000 ton of fertilizers to rice and
sugarcane farmers and for the purchase of 57,000 ton paddy at the support
price.   MOF subsidized the transport cost of fertilizers from the center



ANNEX 3
Page 8
to the province.   MOF is presently understaffed and its services are
concentrated entirely in Bangkok, which renders its operations not as
effective as they should be. Extension personnel at provincial level
have assisted MOF with the distribution of inputs and the purchase of
farm produce.
Credit
26.       The main source of institutional credit is the Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC). Other sources of credit
are four or five commercial banks, about six types of Cooperatives, Farmers'
Associations, Government Sugar Factories, merchants, mill owners, money
lenders and relatives. There is an increased demand for short and medium-
term credit for the purchase of fertilizers, agro-chemicals and agri-
cultural machinery. The Government endeavors to make more credit
available to farmers, mainly through cooperatives. BAAC makes credit
available through Cooperatives and Farmers' Associations. In 1976 it
proposes to lend US$133 million to individual farmers, about US$58 million
to farmer Cooperatives and about US$4 million to Farmers' Associations.
This is about 35% more than was provided in 1975. Short-term loans
cannot exceed 60% of the volume of the produce to be raised and are
usually in the range of US$250 - 600 per client with a joint guarantor.
Credit is assessed on the credit officers' assessment of credit require-
ment, production potential and debt repayment record.
Seeds
27.       Traditionally, pure seed produced at the experiment stations
of the Department of Agriculture was passed on for multiplication to DAE,
Cooperatives, Farmers' Associations and individual farmers. Most farmers
who grew the seed took insufficient care and the seed became mixed or
contaminated with weed seeds and it often had a low germination percentage.
Rice seed production for farmers is now also conducted on a small seed
production component of the Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project
(Cr. 461-TH). Under a U.S. financed Seeds Project, which will upgrade a
seed center at Phitsanulok and establish seed centers at Khon Kaen,
Chiang Mai and Chainat, soybean, rice, mung bean, groundnut, corn and
sorghum seed will be produced, dried, graded and stored. DAE, through its
Seed Multiplication Division, is presently responsible for the operation
of the centers, but in future MOF will control operations, with DAE only
assisting with the selection of seed growers and with crop inspections.
MOF would assume all commercial aspects of seed production, storage and
distribution in 1981.
Fertilizers and Agro-chemicals
28.           In 1974 Thailand imported in excess of 90% of fertilizers.
Main local production lines are sulphate of ammonia and urea (10,000
tons), low grade compound fertilizers (110,000 tons) and organic
fertilizers (10,000 tons). One factory with a present capacity of



ANNEX 3
Page 9
100,000 tons produces mainly Ammophos (16:20) and the compound 12:18:18.
Generally, Bangkok-based merchants distribute fertilizers to the provinces
by truck, where it is sold, usually on credit at a high interest rate, to
farmers. Farmers' Cooperatives can bargain considerable discounts. There
are sufficient fertilizers available for the present demand and prices
have fallen in 1975-76. Farmers are, however, reluctant to use enough
fertilizer due to inadequate credit or an insufficient increase in yield to
cover the increased expenses. About 50% of all agro-chemicals are formulated
locally which, together with imports, are traded by provincial agents.
There are a large number of formulations and brands on the market. It is
often difficult to obtain the recommended chemicals due to inefficient
liaison between manufacturers/importers and the research and extension per-
sonnel. Particular care should be taken with the recommendation of toxic and
hazardous chemicals.
The Impact of Extension on Crop Production
29.       Extension Agents would visit the contact farmers and their groups
of neighbors on a regular fixed time basis at least once every fortnight.
During these visits they would discuss and demonstrate the best cultural
techniques and the available inputs for producing high yields. In
most instances yield increases would be achieved by using: (1) high
quality seeds or planting material of some improved adapted variety; (2)
timely, suitable cultural practices; (3) fertilizers; (4) agro-chemicals
for the control of pests, diseases and vermin; and (5) some mechanization.
Extension Agents would be able to recommend the best sources of credit
and inputs. Increased yields would lead to a greater volume of marketable
products, which would need suitable preparation before disposal and
better knowledge of marketing channels. Special lectures and demonstrations
would be given in connection with marketing of produce.
30.       Present and future yields of the main crops, using present
knowledge, limited inputs and improved production techniques with the
required inputs, are compared in Table 2. Even without extensive use of
inputs, but utilizing the best known husbandry techniques for the most
suitable varieties, increased production would be substantial.



THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Area /a and Average Yield /b of Major Crops in Project Provinces in 1974/75
Project Provinces                   Rice       Maize      Cassava Sorghum Groundnut Mungbean Soybean Castor Sesame Veget. Cotton    Kenaf   Sugarcane lubber
---- - ------------------------- - ------------ - --- Hectares --- - - - - - - - - - --
1.  Ubon Ratchathani                 436,800       8,000   1,700             2,800                                      4,000             47,100
2.  Yasothon                          137,000                                                                                             20,600
3.  Roi-Et                            300,400              4,000             1,600                                      5,400    700      22,800
4.  Kalasin                            98,500                                                                                             20,100
5.  Khon Kaen                         193,600                                                                                             59,800
6.  Sisaket                           197,600    17,700       300            1,500                                      3,000             30,700
7.  Buriram                           228,100      8,300  68,500            12,100                                 500  3,200             46,900   7,500
8.  Chaiyaphum                        128,100      3,100                                                                                  58,600
9.  Nakhon Ratchasima                 212,100   167,000 102,200             11,100      1,400            4,800  3,300           1,600     57,700   4,800
10. Nakhon Sawan                       225,400   156,300      300  16,700   6,300    49,100    4,900                     5,100  5,000      10,700
11.  Uthai Thani                        93,400    34,300               400      600        600                           3,200
12.  Phitsanulok                       114,600    25,800                      2,800    22,300                    4,400    700
13.  Phichit                            34,900    26,000                      3,400    11,800                   11,400                               2,600
14.  Lampang                            64,600    27,000                      8,800        900                    1,400  6,500  1,800                5,100
15.  Sukothai                           94,200    33,200                      3,800    36,500   40,600                          29,900               1,800
16.  Chiang Mai                         99,100      1,900                     8,100              10,600
17.  Sara Buri                         111,100    83,900                                 3,300            4,600
18.  Lop Buri                          103,500   154,200             5,600              8,800             1,200                  5,400
19.  Suphan Buri                       237,700      5,500   1,200   6,300                2,700            1,000                                     13,400
20.  Sing Buri                          61,600
21.  Chainat                            68,300      1,600                                1,100
22.  Ang Thong                          70,300                                           1,800
23.  Nakhon Pathom                      71,000                       1,100                                                         300              20,200
24.  Ratchaburi                         97,600      1,700   3,800                       10,000                           2,400                      12,100
25.  Prachuab Khiri Khan                 8,300      6,200   1,500             3,000                       5,000         10,100    500                 3,900
26.  Prachin Buri                      170,900    12,300  25,500              3,700      1,900                    1,000    700               4,200
27.  Chacheongsao                      171,900              33,200            2,300                3,800                34,200                          900
28.  Chon Buri                          51,900              86,900            5,600                                                                  53,000
29.  Surat Thani                        70,500               4,400                                                       4,200                                101,300
30.  Phatthalung                        82,400                 400              300    27,600                             1,300                                41,400
31.  Songkhla                           87,200      3,700                                                                                                     112,200
32.  Nakhon Si Thammarat               167,300      1,600                     1,500      1,500
33.  Pattani                            49,600                                           3,200                                                                 48.100
Total 33 Project Provinces (ha)   4,339,500   779,330 333,900  30,100  79,300   184,500   59,900 16,600 22,000 84,000 45,200 /c 379,200 125,300   303,000
Total Thailand               (ha)   7,285,000 1,128,000 414,000 120,000 124,000   233,000  113,000 41,000 30,000   n.a. 52,000 /c 437,000 250,000   687,000
Project Area         (% of total)         60         69       81       25      64         79        53      40     73      n.a.   87          87       50         44
Average Yield             (kg/ha)        1,700      1,800  14,500   2,000   1,250          900       850    950    850   n.a.    950            950  50,000        550
/a  Area based on data collected by Project Preparation Team and MOA statistical reports (harvested area only).
/b  Yields averaged over the period 1972/75, based on "Agricultural Statistics of Thailand, Crop Year 1974/75".                                                          II
Div. Agr. Econ., MOAC, Bangkok, Report No. 41, 1976.
/c Area and yield in 1973/74.



3
Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Present and Future Yields /a of Important Crops
Present     Future Yield Using   Future Yields Using
Average     Present Knowledge    Improved Prod. Tech.
Crop                    Yield       and Limited Inputs   and Required Inputs
_______-------------- (kg/ha) ---------------------
Rice
Irrigated               2,500              3,500                   4,500
Rainfed                 1,800               2,200                  2,500
Maize                      1,800              2,500                   3,000
Cassava                  14,500              20,000                 25,000
Groundnuits                1,250              1,700                   2,000
(in shell)
Mung Bean                    900              1,000                   1,300
Soybean                     850               1,200                  2,000
Kenaf (fibre)                950              1,500                  2,500
SugarcarLe               50,000              55,000                 65,000
/a  These yields represent a very broad spectrum of Thai conditions and depend
on climate, soil type, regional differences in cultural practices, etc.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Organization and Management of Agricultural
Extension Services Under The Project
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC), which is
under the jurisdiction of the Under Secretary of State for Agriculture,
consists of nine departments (Chart No. 15659), including the Department
of Agricultural Extension (DAE). The current organization of extension
services under DAE is covered in Annex 2.
Organization of DAE
2.        The Director General of DAE is empowered to, and under the project
would, organize his headquarters divisions into three functional services:
administrative, technical and extension (Chart 16179). Each of these
services would be headed by a Deputy Director General or a Senior Admin-
istrator (paras. 4-6). The proposed reorganization would give distinct
responsibilities to the Deputy Director Generals, division chiefs and
section heads and it would generally strengthen head office organization.
3.        The administrative and technical line of command from head-
quarters to the province currently bypasses the Regional Extension Officer
(REO), who is now mainly responsible for staff training and providing plant
protection services. Under the project the REO would be included in the
chain of command; he would direct and guide the provincial extension
services under his jurisdiction. Beneath the REO, the chain of command
would continue much as at present, with Provincial Extension Officers
(PEOs) responsible for supervising the district extension services under
the District Extension Officer (DEO). All Extension Agents (EAs) would
report to the DEO. In this management pyramid each individual would deal
with only a few immediate subordinates with whom he is well acquainted.
This organization would facilitate effective supervision.
National Level
4.        In the proposed headquarters organizational structure, the Senior
Administrative Officer would head the Secretarial, Finance and Personnel
Divisions. The Finance Division would deal with all financial, accounting
and procurement matters. A special Project Implementation Section would
be establi»-;d in this Division to handle project-related procurement,



ANNEX 4
Page 2
accounting, contract administration and loan disbursement matters. The
Personnel Division would plan staff requirements and deployment and it would
recruit staff and evaluate its performance. The Secretarial Division would
deal with correspondence and administrative matters of internally financed
projects. Its Planning and Evaluation Section would plan and evaluate
internal operations in DAE, and the Public Relations Section would deal with
public relations matters through the required media.
5.        The Deputy Director General for Technical Services would head the
Technical, Plant Protection and Seed M-ultiplication Divisions. Senior quali-
fied Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) would head sections dealing with major
crops, farm management and economics, farm mechanization, and marketing
aspects in the Technical Division. They would guide and support the field
SMSs and assist them with their training in the regions and provinces. The
latest information, both from local and international sources would be exam-
ined and passed on to field SMSs, with suggestions for its applicability in
the provinces. This would be done through special short or medium-term training
courses ancd through the direct supply of information to relevant officers.
The Plant P'rotection Division would deal with pest, disease and weed control
problems through the Field Control Units. This division would keep field
SMSs informed on the latest pest, disease and weed control methods, the
availability, safety and usefulness of chemicals and the recommended methods
of application. The deployment of the special Control Units, stationed in
the Regions, would be coordinated through this Division. The Seed Multipli-
cation Division would direct and coordinate the operations of four Seed
Centers (to be increased at a later stage) established under a US Agency for
International Development (AID) loan, which would multiply seed under contract
with farmers, inspect crops, and certify seed of rice, corn, sorghum, groundnut
and mung beans. Under the AID Loan Agreement, commercial activities such as
contracting, drying, storing and selling the seed would be taken over by the
Marketing Organization for Farmers (MOF) by 1981 and DAE would then only be
responsible for recommending suitable growers and for field crop inspections
of seed purity, freedom from diseases and weeds. There would be close
cooperation between personnel of the Technical, Plant Protection and Seed
Multiplication Divisions and contacts would be maintained with both local and
international research to keep abreast of the latest developments.
6.        Ihe Deputy Director General for Extension Services would head three
divisions. The Extension Implementation and Training Division would be respon-
sible for planning and implementing all agricultural extension services in the
Kingdom. A special assistant would be responsible for the implementation of
extension services in ongoing irrigation and rural development projects
located in nonproject provinces. The Division would also be responsible for
the preservice and in-service training of all extension personnel. It would
coordinate through REOs the activities of the Regional Training Centers. The
Agricultural Relations Division would be responsible for the preparation of



ANNEX 4
Page 3
extension aids and acquisition of mass media space or time, as well as
supervising the operation of the mobile audio-visual units in the regions.
This Division would organize radio programs, prepare exhibits and organize
farmer contests. The Farmer Institution Division would assist with the
organization of Farmers' Associations, Home Economics Groups and Rural Youth
Clubs. In each province one SMS would be assigned to work with Home Economics
Groups. Farmers' wives would be organized in specific groups for cooking,
needlework, childcare, and family budgeting. Depending on the topic, courses
may be of two to six weeks duration. Rural Youth Groups would be formed and
EAs would assist them with their activities.
Regional Level
7.        The REO in each of the six Regions would direct and supervise all
agricultural extension and training activities in the provinces in his
jurisdiction. He would be directly responsible to the Director General of
DAE and his deputies. The regional operating budget would be allocated
directly from DAE in Bangkok. When the region is included under the
National Agricultural Extension Project, two Deputy REOs would be appointed
in each region; one to implement extension services in the project provinces
and one to supervise and direct existing extension services in the nonproject
provinces. In each of the regions there would be about five senior SMSs
for the major crops, plant protection and other important activities. The
Regional Training Officer (RTO) in charge of the Regional Training Center
would also report to the REO. A small administrative unit would complete
the Regional Extension Office. The Deputy REOs would be responsible for
the daily supervision of extension activities in their assigned provinces.
They would spend at least half their time on field trips supervising
extension activities at provincial, district and subdistrict level.
8.        The RTO would be in charge of the Regional Training Center and
he would be responsible for all medium term training courses. He and his
staff wold be technically guided by the Training Division under the Deputy
Director General for Extension Services, and for the duration of the project
they would receive technical and financial assistance and training materials
under the AID loan.
Provincial Level
9.        The PEO, aided by one assistant, or by two where there are nine
or more districts in the provinces, would be responsible for all extension
activities in the province. HIe would supervise and direct the activities
of six to eight SMSs, the number depending on farm activities and the degree
of specialization required in the province. He would further supervise a
provincial training unit. This unit, consisting of a Provincial Training
Officer (PTO) and two assistants would organize all in-service training



ANNEX 4
Page 4
within the province, assist with the preparation or requisition of all
necessary extension aids, and with the conduct of field days, demonstrations
and exhibits. PTOs and assistants would not necessarily have technical
training and would be mainly used as organizers. A small administrative staff
would assist the PEO and his technical staff. The assistant PEOs would guide
and supervise up to eight DEOs each, and they would ensure that DEOs provide
the necessary supervision and guidance to EAs and that DEOs and EAs attend to
their work; and receive their inservice training.
10.       The PEO would be administratively responsible to the Provincial
Government: and responsible for technical matters to the REO. The provincial
extension budget would continue to be allocated at four-monthly intervals
by the Director General of DAE through the Governor to the PEO. All corres-
pondence on technical matters from the REO and headquarters would flow
directly to the PEO, who would pass it on to the Governor for information
and formal approval where reqired. Lines of command and coordination
of extension services under the project are shown in Chart No. 16180.
District Level
11.       Field level extension services would be organized and directed
from the District Extension Center by the DEO who would be assisted by one
Deputy DEC) where nine or more subdistricts are located in the district.
Direct farmer contact would be made by EAs.  Up to eight EAs would be
supervised by the DEO or Deputy DEO. Each EA would be responsible for
extension activities in about 10 villages and to an average of about 1,000
farmers. EAs would work through contact farmers which would replace the
Farmers Foreman role (Annex 2) where it has been established. Many current
Farmers Foremen, who are often respected village leaders, are expected to
serve as contact farmers in the future. All EAs would be generalists,
trained in all agricultural subjects which are of importance in their respec-
tive subdistricts. The DEO and Deputy DEO would spend about 75% of their
time in the field in their assigned subdistricts, supervising and guiding EAs
on a regular basis. The rest of their time would be spent on administrative
duties and training programs.
12.       SMSs from the province would function as trainers of all district
extension personnel and they would support them in their field work. The
field of specialization of SMSs would depend on the agricultural enterprises
in the district. They would plan demonstrations and experimental work in
cooperation with local research staff and the PEOs, DEOs and EAs. SMSs
would spend one-third of their time training EAs and others, another third
on research and study activities, and the remainder in the districts,
backstopping EAs, visiting farmers' fields and the demonstrations plots,
and generally keeping in touch with the farm situation.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Operational Methods
13.       Each EA would be responsible for direct farmer contact in the
subdistrict (tambon) where he is stationed. A subdistrict averages about
10 villages (muban) and a total of around 1,000 farmers (Annex 1). Consider-
able variations in number of farmers per village occur. Where necessary,
an additional EA would be appointed, or the workload from two or three
villages would be divided among several EAs. Ten contact farmers would be
selected from each village. These contact farmers would meet with the EA
for one day at least every fortnight. All EAs would use a variety of
extension methods, such as simple demonstrations of suitable techniques,
simple comparison experiments, farmwalks on farms where the correct tech-
niques or suitable varieties or fertilizers are used, and field days.
Heavy reliance would be placed on demonstration plots located mainly on
contact farmers' fields in the village. These plots would be used through-
out the season to demonstrate the crops' progress to all contact farmers
and their neighbors.
14.       The EA would focus his extension activities on that crop which is
of greatest importance to the local farming community. He would further
focus on those cultural practices, methods of pest control, choice of
varieties, etc., which would provide the greatest impact on the farmer's
yield and income. This would lead to a rapid acceptance of EAs as autho-
rities in the field and it would give them some considerable standing in
the community.
15.       EAs would have few administrative duties.  The EA would keep a
diary, recording such information as place of visit, how many farmers met,
problems encountered, and specific recommendations made. The supervising
DEO would regularly check and initial all diaries of EAs under his responsi-
bility. The DEO would take further action where this is required, e.g.
when a serious pest attack occurs necessitating engagement of a Regional
Control Unit or with flood damage for which special measures have to be
taken at the district or provincial level.
16.       All EAs would attend a fortnightly training session in the
District Extension Office. Training would focus on topical and
practical subjects (Annex 7).
17.       Supervision and guidance of EAs would be given by the DEO, and by
his deputy where there are more than eight subdistricts in the district.
Each district level officer would pay regular, but rotating visits to his
assigned number of subdistricts, where he would supervise the work of the
EAs and guide them in executing their duties. He would inspect the demon-
stration plots with the EA and he would identify the needs for future
extension activities in discussions with farmers, authorities and by obser-
vation during his frequent visits. DEOs would spend about 75% of their
time in the assigned subdistricts.



AMNEX 4
Page 6
18.       Assistant PEOs would in turn supervise and guide the DEO and his
deputy. His function would be similar to that of the DEO, but he would
cover up to eight DEOs in their areas of responsibility.  He would ensure
that DEOs provide the necessary guidance to EAs and see that they attend
to their work in a satisfactory manner.
19.       Extension personnel would be relieved from as many statistical
and regulatory duties as possible. In future such duties would be largely
restricted to:
(a) collecting land-use and crop production statistics involving
both sample harvests and farmer interviews in association
with the village headman; and
(b) recommending suitable seed growers and inspecting seed crops.
All efforts would be made to prevent excessive involvement of extension
personnel in statistical and regulatory duties, since this would seriously
detract from their true extension duties.
Project Coordination
20.       Continued and close coordination and cooperation of staff between
the different agencies is required to work towards the same goal: increasing
crop yields and improving the earning capacity of farmers. At the district
level there should be close personal contact between staff of the different
agencies. EAs should know when RID intends to cut off irrigation supplies to
allow canal maintenance. EAs should know where credit is available, where
produce marketing opportunities are and where specific agro-chemicals can be
purchased.    Closer contact would be sought by inviting interested and
knowledgeable personnel from other agencies such as RID, Land Development
Department, Livestock Development Department, and the Tobacco Monopoly and
from private sugar mills to the relevant fortnightly training sessions in
each district. During the training sessions they would participate in
discussions of mutual problems and learn which aspects of farming the exten-
sion service is concentrating on at that particular time.
21.       DAE would establish in each project province a Provincial Agricul-
tural Extension Coordinating Committee which would aim to coordinate provin-
cial agricultural extension services with other related activities in the
province. The Coordinating Committee would meet prior to each cropping
season under chairmanship of the provincial Governor. Members would be drawn
from the important agriculture-related organizations in the province such as
research institutions, BAAC, RID, MOF, and the Cooperatives. Meetings should
provide relevant information on all agricultural activities in the province
and they would ensure a mutual understanding of each others activities.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
22.       A Technical Advisory Panel would be forned in each province
with technical members from research, extension and other related
institutions and organizations in the province as members. They would
meet prior to each cropping season under chairmanship of the PEO. This
Technical Advisory Panel would:
(a) evaluate results of field experiments and demonstrations,
and the overall performance of local crops;
(b) take account of recent research findings with significance
to the province;
(c) use the national guidelines to prepare extension targets
for the province;
(d) prepare a package of recommendations for the provincial
extension service;
(e) prepare the scope of the experimental and demonstration
program for the extension service; and
(f) identify the need for further research work on immediate
farmer problems which would be recommended for action to
relevant research institutions.
23.       The REO or one of his deputies would represent DAE at meetings
organized by the Regional Agricultural Centers. Three of these Centers
are established at Khon Kaen, Chiangmai and Chainat, while another is
planned for a southern city. The purpose of the Regional Agricultural
Centers is to bring together all agriculture-related organizations, but at
present they are used almost exclusively for research and training acti-
vities and little useful coordination takes place.
24.       At the national level, Government would establish a National
Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Extension which would coordinate
project implementation and extension activities of the DAE with related
activities supervised by other agencies, such as the supply of inputs and
irrigation water, the provision of credit, and marketing. The Coordinating
Committee would be chaired by the Under Secretary of State for Agriculture
and would include representatives of relevant ministries and departments,
such as the Mfinistries of Finance, Interior, and Commerce, the Budget Bureau,
the National Economic and Social Development Board, the Civil Service Commis-
sion, the Marketing Organization of Farmers, the Roval Irrigation Department,
and the Departments of Agricultural Technology, Livestock Development, and
Land Development, as members. The Director General of DAE would present an
annual workplan for extension to familiarize participating agencies with
extension activities which should lead to an exchange of views and better
coordination.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Transportation
25.       Upon completion of the procurement program included in the project
(Annex 9), all PEOs, SMSs, DEOs and their assistants would have the use of a
car, with some sharing of vehicles as necessary. Provincial Training Officers
and their assistants would also share a vehicle.  Light utility trucks would
be used in areas where roads and tracks are sufficiently developed, and four-
wTlieel-drive vehicles would be supplied to more remote locations. All EAs
would have a light motorcycle.  A minri-bus would be stationed in each province
to transport personnel to training sessions, field days, etc.
26.      tMobile audio-visual units (one for about four prcvinces) would be
provided under the project. These units would be under the administrative
control of the REO and they would provide educational programs through
village shows and fairs.  The units create awareness of worthwhile or new
developments in the field of agriculture relevant to their area, and usually
stimulate intense interest in the villages.
Staffing
27.       The present, future and incremental staff complement of the
extension services for 33 provinces is shown in the following table.
Staff Complement
Designation                                    Present   Required   Incremental
Head Office Staff (professional grades)            160       186           26
Regional Extension Officers                          6         6            -
Deputy Regional Extension Officers                   -        12           12
Regional Training Officers                           6         6            -
Provincial Extension Officers                       33        33            -
Assistant Provincial Extension Officers             43        59           16
Subject Matter Specialists                          56       266*         210
Provincial Training Officers                         -        33           33
Assistant Provincial Training Officers               -        66           66
District Extension Officers                        396       486           90
Extension Agents                                   625     3,125        2,500
* Includes 30 specialists in home economics.
In addition to the above staff complement about 1,000 support staff,
accountants, secretaries, clerks, typists, drivers and janitors are
required in the regions9 provinces and districts.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
28.       Staff build-up would be achieved in the first four years as follows:
Designation               Year 1        Year 2      Year 3      Year 4    Total
Head Office Staff           10             6            5            5        26
Deputy REO                   2             4            4            2        12
Deputy PEO                   4             4            4            4        16
PTO                          4            11           10            8        33
SMS                         25            70           65          50        210
Assistant PTO                8            22           20           16        66
DEO                         11            30           27           22        90
EA                         300           825          750          625     2,500
Support Staff              150           400          350         300      1,200
Total                  514         1,372       1,235        1,032      4,153
29.       REOs and their Deputies would be the best qualified, most senior
extension officers in the service. The REO would mainly be an administrator,
but his Deputies would be responsible for the implementation and execution
of extension services in their assigned provinces.
30.       PEOs would be senior officers with considerable extension
experience. They would be proven administrators who have displayed good
leadership. Assistant PEOs would have a university degree, extension
experience and leadership capability.
31.       SMSs would be university graduates, preferably with some
subject specialization for which there is a demand in their assigned
province. There would be an initial shortage of trained SMSs, but this
would be remedied through an intensive preservice training course and
several in-service technical courses at the Regional Training Centers.
Candidates would be drawn from a waiting list of applicants for positions
and from new university graduates. In 1974, Thai Universities provided a
total of 99 Master and 816 Bachelor degree graduates in agriculture
related subjects. In addition to this, a considerable number of graduates
trained overseas would return to Thailand.
32.       PTOs would coordinate all inservice training in the province.
They would not necessarily be technically trained. They would mainly be
organizers and their duties would include the engagement of lecturers
and trainers from among the SMSs, research institutions, other agricultural
services and private industry. Further, PTOs would prepare rosters for
candidates in the province eligible for long-term training courses at the
Regional Training Centers and arrange the regular fortnightly technical
instruction sessions for EAs with the DEOs and their deputies. The PTO and
his assistants would also arrange to provide visual aids and projection and
amplifying equipment where needed. The PTO would preferably be a university
graduate and the assistants would be able to prepare visual aids and to
maintain extension equipment.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
33.       DEOs and their assistants would be good organizers and leaders.
They would have at least five years vocational training and considerable
extension experience. They would supervise all activities of EAs.
34.       All EAs would have vocational school training.  They would
also be appointed as permanent public servants following a qualifying
period. Recruits with a rural background would be selected from an
existing waiting list of applicants and from among recent graduates of
vocational schools. The annual output from schools with a five year course
is 850 arnd from schools with a three year course about 1,600. Suitable
candidates for EA positions are expected to be available from rural areas
in most districts.
Accommodation
35.       Regional, provincial and district staff would operate from their
respective centers, most of which would be constructed under the Project.
EAs would live in one of the villages of their assigned subdistrict, where
they could be contacted easily by the farmers. They would leave a note of
their whereabouts on a prominent notice board at all times. In remote
areas, where it would be impossible to rent accommodation, a low-cost house
would be constructed under the project (para. 3.11). Housing would not
be provided for other extension personnel. All regional training facilities
would have full-board accommodation for participants in the medium-term
training courses. Existing Regional Extension Offices would continue to be
used.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Consulting Services
A. Extension Consultants
1.        The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) would engage
a firm of consultants which would provide the services of five extension
specialists, who would assist with the preparation, implementation and
evaluation of the extension program in 33 provinces in Thailand. One
consultant would assist the Director General and his staff at head office
in Bangkok, while the other four would assist regional extension services.
Draft Terms of Reference
2.        The consultants would be university graduates with practical
agricultural experience (preferably in smallholder tropical agriculture)
and proven ability in directing agricultural extension services at
various levels, including subject matter specialists and training
officers.
3.        Among the duties would be the following:
(a) assist the Director General and his staff and Regional
Extension Officers and their staff in the preparation
of annual extension programs, the implementation of the
programs and the evaluation of results;
(b) assist in adjusting extension programs to suit
different farming situations in different localities
and environments;
(c) assist in developing necessary liaison with agri-
cultural research at provincial and regional levels;
(d) assist in evaluating the effectiveness of training
programs;
(e) assist with the design, execution and evaluation of
field experiments and demonstrations to be conducted
by extension personnel;
(f) assist with the recruitment and evaluation of
extension personnel;
(g) assist with the preparation of reporting and moni-
toring procedures within the service;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(h) assist with the preparation of periodic reports to
the Director General of DAE and the Bank; and
(i) assist in negotiations with other Government
agencies on extension matters.
4.        The consultant at the national level would guide, coordinate
and evaluate activities of the consultants in the regions. He would live
in Bangkok and would spend about half his time on field visits to the
provinces. The consultants in the regions would live in or near the
major town in the region in which the Regional Extension Center is
located and would spend most of their time visiting provincial offices.
Extensive travelling within the regions would require frequent overnight
stays.
5.        The consultant at the national level would commence duties as
soon as possible but not later than April 1977./I One consultant for the
Northeast Region would be required by June 1977, a further two consultants
by October 1977, and the last one would commence duties in October 1978.
Their contracts would expire in September 1981, or as otherwise agreed.
B. Project Monitoring
6.        DAE would engage a consultant with a strong background in data
analysis and broad experience in project monitoring and agro-economic
surveys in Southeast Asia. He would be employed for about three months
per year, throughout the duration of the project.
7.        The consultant would be required to assist the Policy and Planning
Division of the Department of Land Development, University or the National
Institute for Development Administration (NIDA) with the development and
testing of a suitable questionnaire.  Ile would further assist with the
determination of the sample size for each area. He would also assist with
data processing, analysis of the results and report writing. Surveys would
be condlucted between mid-April and mid-June of each year to be followed by
analysis and interpretation of data and report preparation.
C. Engineering Consultants
8.        The services of a local engineering firm with expertise in
architecture and international procurement and tendering would be required
for the design, tendering and supervision of construction of project
facilities and procurement of equipment and vehicles. The estimated
/1  The Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH) would finance
this consultant's services until the present loan becomes effective.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
number of man-months of time required for these services is shown in
Annex 8, Table 8. Proposed terms of reference for the consultants are
as follows:
Consultants would be provided general information on the needs,
location, plans and proposed layout for the Centers. On the basis of
this information the consultants would:
(a) make the necessary site surveys, soil and foundation
tests and location layout for each of the Centers
and houses;
(b) prepare final layout plans, standardized designs and
detailed drawings for the buildings, service facili-
ties and utilities for the Centers and houses;
(c) working jointly with DAE, prepare the necessary
specifications and tender documents for construction
by contract and for procurement of equipment and
vehicles;
(d) assist DAE in the evaluation of bids, selection of
successful bidders, and preparation of contract
documents;
(e) following award of contract, assist DAE in the
inspection and supervision of construction of the
Centers 1/ and procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture; and
(f) prepare periodic reports, as required by DAE and the
Bank, on progress of construction and procurement,
and assist in expediting execution of the project.
1/ Construction of residences would be supervised by DAE.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT WORKS
1.        The project would provide the following facilities:
(a) Three Regional Training Centers;
(b) 29 Provincial Extension Centers;
(c) 285 District Extension Centers;
(d) 600 Extension Agent Houses; and
(e) Furniture and fixtures for the Centers.
2.        Regional Training Centers.   The Regional Training Centers, to be
located2at Nakhon Pathom, Rayong and Songkhla, would each contain about
3,000 m cf floor space. They would each include 60-bed dormitories, a
cafeteria, and classroom facilities for 60 students as well as appropriate
laundry facilities, storage space, instructors' offices and staff housing.
The project provides for completely furnishing these Centers, as well as
existing training centers at Khon Kaen, Phitsanulok and Chainat, with the
necessary furniture and operating equipment.
3.        Provincial Extension Centers.   The 30 project Provincial Extension
Centers would be2constructed to a standardized design. They would each con-
tain about 300 m of floor space and would include office accommodation for a
total of about 20 people such as the PEO and deputies, SMSs, Training Officers
and administrative personnel. They would contain a conference room for up to
80 people and appropriate toilet and kitchenette facilities and storage for
training and demonstration material. Each would be located in or near the
capital of the provinces shown in green on Map No. 12068. The project would
also provide the necessary furniture and equipment for these Centers and for
three additional Provincial Extension Centers to be constructed under the
Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH).
4.        District Extension Centers.  The 285 District Extension Centers to
be constructed under this project and the 47 to be built under the Northeast
Rural Development Project would al2o be constructed to a standardized design.
It would utilize about 80 to 100 m of floor space and provide offices for
two DEOs and two clerks, a meeting room for 30 to 40 people, storage for
extension field equipment, toilet, kitchenette and other utilities. All 332
District Extension Centers would also be completely furnished under this
project, and would be located in the provinces shown on Map No. 12068.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        Extension Agent Houses.  The houses would be low-cost houses
of one standardized design of the two-bedroom type. They would be occupied
by the subdistrict EAs who woulq provide their own furnishings. A basic
low-cost design with 60 to 80 m of floor space would be provided for the EA
houses.
6.        Site studies would be required at each of the Center locations
including survey, soil and foundation tests, and preparation of a structure
layout plan. Sites for the houses would also need to be located and analyzed
for suitability. Engineering consultants would be engaged by DAE to perform
this work under the project (Annex 5).
7.        Following survey of the sites, preparation of designs and specifi-
cations and tendering and contract award, the consultants would supervise
construction of the centers. To execute this, the consultants would: (1)
appoint a senior engineer to oversee the overall program, spending about
one-third of his time inspecting and supervising the program; (2) assign
seven full-time senior technicians as regional field supervisors; and (3)
appoint one resident junior technician for on-site supervision of construction
for every two project provinces.
8.        A coordinating committee, consisting of representatives of the
consulting firm, DAE and PWD would be established to evaluate site selections
and bids and to award contracts and arbitrate disputes that may arise in
policy or construction activities.
9.        DAE staff would supervise construction of EA houses.
10.       Cost Estimates.   The estimated costs for providing the project
facilities and services are shown in Annex 8.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Staff Training
1.      An effective extension officer must be able to convey the latest
technical and managerial information on agricultural crop production in a
clear, competent manner. He must, therefore, be motivated and well trained
in both crop production techniques and extension methodology. At present,
extension officers are inadequately trained and are not as effective as they
should be. Under the project all extension personnel would receive regular,
systematic and relevant training, aimed at rapid improvement of production
techniques.
2.      On appointment, all staff assigned to the project would undergo a
two to eight week preservice orientation course in one of the Regional
Training Centers, or at any other available and suitable training facility.
Lecturers would be provided from the regular staff of the Training Centers
and guest lecturers would be drawn from MOAC, universities and other
suitable institutions when required. Operations of DAE and its relation-
ship with other departments and organizations would be explained and the
extension methodology would be taught in detail.
3.      Each EA and DEO would undergo about two weeks of annual inservice
training either in one of the Regional Training Centers or in the Provincial
Extension Centers. Courses for EAs would stress the practical agricultural
problems faced by farmers in the region and technically simple solutions to
those problems. DEOs would spend more time on administrative problems and
practices. The course material for all medium-term training sessions would
be summarized in illustrated handbooks and all necessary training aids,
such as video-tape recorders, overhead projectors, movie projectors and
cassette tape recorders, would be used to convey the subject material
clearly to course participants. Where possible trainees would participate
in demonstrations to gain a full appreciation of the work involved.
4.      Subject Matter Specialists need a number of intensive training
courses to prepare them adequately for their future training and advisory
tasks under the project. During their orientation course it would be
stressed that extension efforts initially would be concentrated on only
one or two major crops in the assi;gned provinces. The overall extension
system, as proposed under the project would be described and SMS's relation-
ships with research, universities and other agencies such as RID, BAAC, etc.
would be reviewed. For training EAs, it would further be explained to SMSs
that they should present subject matter in easily digestible fortnightly
segments., Correct training methods and the use of audo-visual aids would
also be taught.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.      A second course for SMSs would provide technical training only.
Following lectures on general crop production techniques for the major
crops in project provinces, participants would be divided into groups by
specialist disciplines such as entomology, farm mechanization, etc. and
dryland and irrigated crops. These latter courses would be of about one
month's duration and would be conducted in one of the Regional Training
Centers by technical experts from MOAC, other government agencies and
universities.
6.      In addition to above medium-term courses there would be monthly
training courses for SMSs of 2-4 days duration in their own specialities.
Furthermore, there would be one or two preseason courses dealing with
seasonal recommendations, and organizational, training methodological and
technical aspects. During the first year, training would be heavily
concentrated on crop management practices with a selective use of inputs
where applicable.
7.      Provincial Training Officers and their assistants would draw up
regular training rosters, select and engage lecturers, and ensure that
appropriate training aids would be available. They would further ensure
that other interested personnel such as officers from RID, the Land Develop-
ment Department, the Livestock Development Department, sugar extension
officers from sugarmills, and tobacco extension officers would be invited
to training sessions of common interest.
8.      The US Agency for International Development (AID) has committed
a loan of US$3.0 million to provide technical assistance and materials in
support of the DAE training program. The AID loan would finance the employ-
ment of consultants who would assist DAE in preparing curricula, handbooks,
manuals, and films to be used in training courses. The loan would also
finance the printing of the required course materials, and part of the
incremental operating costs of the Regional Training Centers.
Fellowships and Overseas Training
9.      To improve the quality of extension staff, particularly the
SMSs, PEOs, and DEOs, an augmented fellowship and training program would
be provided under the project. The Government currently awards 30 under-
graduate scholarships annually to outstanding DAE staff. The project
would supplemen&this-program with 50 postgraduate fellowslips, including
40 to Thai Universities and 10 abroad. Recipients would be obligated to
remain in the Government service for twice the duration of their fellow-
ships in accordance with present relations. A further 100 short-term
study tours to Asian countries such as the Philippines, India and Taiwan
would be provided for outstanding extension workers to observe innovative
and successful farm practices and extension work.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    FEC
---(Baht million)           -(US$ '000) --)
(1) Capital Costs
Civil works                 110.4    73.6   184.0    5,420   3,610   9,030        40
Vehicles                       -    117.1   117.1         -    5,750   5,750    100
Equipment and furniture      20.2    47.1    67.3        990   2,310   3,300      70
Subtotal               130.6   237.8   368.4    6,410  11,670  18,080        65
Contingencies                22.4    27.9    50.3    1,100   1,370   2,470        55
Subtotal               153.0   265.7   418.7    7,510  13,040  20,550        63
(2) Training and Consultants
Overseas training              -       9.0     9.0        -      440      440    100
Local training                3.1       -      3.1       150      -       150      0
Consultants (extension)       1.6    32.2    33.8         80   1,580   1,660      95
Consultants (civil works)   16.7        -     16.7       820      -       820      0
Subtotal                21.4    41.2    62.6    1,050   2,020   3,070        66
(3) Incremental Operating Costs
O&M buildings, equipment
and furniture              36.7      1.8    38.5    1,800       90   1,890       5
O&M vehicles                 12.1    48.1    60.2        595   2,360   2,955      80
Salaries                    291.2       -    291.2   14,290       -   14,290       0
Extension activities         13.5       -     13.5       665      -       665      0
In-Service training          10.8       -     10.8       530      -       530      0
Monitoring                    8.0       -      8.0       395      -       395      0
DAE admin. overhead          15.8       -     15.8       775      -       775      0
Subtotal               388.1    49.9   438.0   19,050   2,450  21,500        11
Subtotal project costs      562.5   356.8   919.3   27,610  17,510  45,120        39
Expected price increases   140.4    91.5   231.9    6,890   4,490  11,380         39
Total Project Costs   702.9   448.3 1,151.2   34,500  22,000  56,500         39



ANNEX 8
Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimate
US$ '000
1.        Civil Works /a
Construction of 3 Regional Training Centers
@ US$330,000 each                                             990
Construction of 29 Provincial Extension Centers
@ US$ 33,000 each                                             960
Construction of 285 District Extension Centers
@ US$ 8,800 each                                           2,510
Completion of construction under NERD project               1,410
Construction of 600 Houses
@ US$ 4,900 each                                           2,940
Site development /b                                           220
Subtotal                                    9,030
2.        Vehicles /c                                                 5,750
3.        Equipment and furniture./d                                  3,300
4.        Physical contingencies                                      2,470
(20% on items 1 and 3)
Total                                    20,550
/a Construction costs based on:
Regional Training Center                3,000 sq m @ US$110/sq m
Provincial Extension Center               300 sq m @ US$110/sq m
District Extension Center                  80 sq m @ US$110/sq m
House                                      70 sq m @ US$70/sq m
/b  Site development: US$1,000 per Training Center US$650 per Provincial Extension
Center and, US$400 per District Extension Center and US$150 per house.
/c  Annex 9, Table 1.
/d  Annex 9, Tables 3 and 4.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training and Consulting Services
US$ '000
1.        Training
10 Post graduate overseas         (240 man-months)                240
40 Post graduate in Thailand    (960 man-months)                  150
100 Study tours in Asia           (200 man-months)                200
Subtotal                  590
2.        Consulting Services
A. Extension (Expatriates)/a
5 Extension specialists            (240 man-months)             1,450
Short-term consultants              (20 man-months)               120
Monitoring consultant               (15 man-months)                90
Subtotal               1,660
B. Engineering
Design & tendering                 (204 man-months)               390
Construction supervision           (280 man-months)               390
Procurement specialist              (20 man-months)                40
Subtotal                 820
Subtotal Consulting Services                                2,480
TOTAL                                                       3,070
/a Includes salaries, travel, housing and education allowances.



ANNEX 8
Table 4
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Build-up
-U*D Fiscal Year                                              FY78             FY79             FY50             FY81             FY82
and Semester                                               I       II       I       II      I        II      I        II      I       II
; lendar year                                         1977             1978             1979            1980             1981             1982         Total
and Semester                                        I    II        I       II        I    II          I    II          I    II         I     II
>.:rstruction
Regional Training Centers                No.                -        1       1       -        -       1
'rovincial Extension Centers             No.                -       4        4       4       5        4       4       4
)strict Extension Centers                No.               10      33      39       39      43      43       40      38
louses                                  No.                20      70      80      83       92      92      93       70
-Regional Training Centers           US$0()0                -     330      165     165     165      165       -       -                                 990
'rovincial Extension Centers         US$'000                -     145      132     132     165      132     132     122                                 960
.istrict Extension Centers           US$'000               88     290     343      343     378     379      352     337                              2,510
aouses                               US$'000               98     343     392      407     451     451      455     343                              2,940
:.ERD - additional construction   US$'000    450          480     480                                                                                 1,410
Site development                      US$'000      10      44      32       23      23      21       23      21      23                                 220
Subtotal                                   460      710  1,620   1,055   1,070   1,180   1,150        960     825                              9,030
Contingencies (20%)                   US$'000      90     140     320      215     220     240      230     190     165                               1,810
Total construction costs    US$'000    550          850   1,940   1,270   1,290   1,420   1,380   1,150       990                             10,840
(.ate of build-up                        %          5       8       17      12      12      13       13      10       10
-- curemient
riture and equipment /a            % of total              13      17       12      12      13       13      10       10
..ost                                 US$'000             430     560      395     395     430     430      330     330                               3,300
.aontingencies   (20%)                US$'000              85     110       80      80      85       85      70      65                                 660
'otal cost                           US$'O00             515      670     475      475     515     515     400      395                              3,960
. ticles
Rtate of build-up /b               % of total              12       16      17      15       15      13      12
Cost                                  US$'000             690     920      980     860     860      745     695                                       5,750
raining and advisory services
:onsultants - cost /c                  US$'000      70      305     305     305      310     305     280      280     320                              2,480
raining - cost /d                      US$'OO0              40      45       50      80      80       90      90      65       50                        590
Furniture and equipment procured in phase with completion of construction.
3 Vehicles procured in line with staff appointments (Annex 8, Table 6).
Annex 8, Table 8.
a Annex 8, Table 7.



ANNEX 8
Table 5
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Incremental Operating Costs
Calendar Year                   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   Total
1. 0 & M Buildings, Furniture & Equipment
Rate of construction (a)         %          13     42      67      90    100      -
Costs buildings (1)           US$'000       -      40    140    220    300    150    850
Costs furniture & equip.(2) US$'000         -      50    165    265    360    200  1,040
Subtotal        US$'000       -      90    305    485    660    350  1,890
2. 0 & M Vehicles
Rate of build-up (b)             %           5     28      60      88    100      -
Costs (3)                     US$'000       45    255    540    785    890    440  2,955
3. Salaries (c)
Costs (4)                     US$'000      405  2,945  4,830  4,200  1,910        -  14,290
4. Extension Activities
No. Provinces (d)                 No.      (4)     11      21      29     33      33
Costs (5)                     US$'000       -      65    125    175    200    100    665
5. In-Service Training
Rate of build-up (e)             %           5     28      60      88    100      -
Costs (6)                     US$'000       10     45      95    140    160       80    530
6. Monitoring
Annual costs (7)              US$'000       15      60     90    115    115       -     395
7.  Administration
Rate of build-up (f)             %           3      17     29      28     19       4
Costs (8)                     US$'000       25    130    225    220    145        30    775
Total Cost US$'000              500  3,590  6,210  6,120  4,080  1,000 21,500
(a)  Rates for OaM Buildings, furniture and equipment based on build-up for construction
of main buildings (Chart No. 16178).
(b)  Rates for O&M vehicles based on delivery dates (Chart No. 16178).
(c)  Salaries based on staff appointments in the provinces, including 4 NERD provinces.
For incremental operating cost calculations, all staff are carried for two years only
(Annex 8, Table 6).
(d)  Extension activities based on staff appointments.
(e)  In-service training based on staff appointments and short term training for the
duration of the project in the District and Provincial Extension Centers only.
(f)  In line with cost build-up for items 1 through 6.
Notes
1. At 3% per annum of construction, commencing one year after construction.
2. At 10% of capital cost.
3. O&M cost per annum of US$800 for a 4-wheel drive vehicle and a mini bus, US$525 for
a pick-up truck and sedan and US$150 for a 100 cc motorcycle.
4. Annex 8, Table 6. Total incremental salaries at full project implementation amount
to US$7.7 million/annum. Cost of US$570,000 was deducted for the years 1 and 2 for
the 4 NERD provinces.
5. At US$6,000 per province per annum (including 4 NERD provinces for 4 years).
6. At US$20 per day for each training session once a fortnight in each district (about
8,000 sessions at full implementation).
7.  Based on employing one survey team for 4-5 project provinces per annum at US$15,000
per team.
8. DAE overheads.



ANNEX 8
Table 6
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Staff Appointments and Incremental Salaries
Calendar Year
Designation               1977      1978     1979      1980     1981        Total
A. Staff Numbers
Head Office Staff           10         6        5         5                   26
Dep. REO                     2         4         4        2                   12
Dep. PEO                     4         4         4        4                   16
PTO                          4        11       10         8                   33
SMS                         25        70       65        50                  210
Ass. PTO                     8        22        20       16                   66
DEO                         11        30        27       22                   90
EA                         300       825      750       625                2,500
Support Staff              150       400      350       300                1,200
Total                   514    1,372    1,235    1,032                  4,153
% of total               12        33       30        25
B. Incremental Salaries /a
Total salaries/US$'000    975    2,540    2,290    1,910           -
Provided under NERD
(US$'000)                 570      570       -         -
Incremental Annual Cost
(US$'000)                 405    1,970    2,290    1,910         -
Incremental Total Project
Cost /b (US$'000)        405    2,945    4,830    4,200       1,910    14,290
Category                           US$/annum
/a Salary estimate:         Head Office Staff (average)                    3,500
(including allowances)  Dep. REO                                        3,000
Dep. PEO                                       2,520
PTO                                      2,400
DEO                                      2,100
SMS and Ass. PTO                         2,340
EA                                       1,920
Support Staff (average)                  1,560
/b For incremental operating costs calculations under the project, all staff are
carried for two years only.



ANNEX 8
Table 7
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Fellowships and Overseas Study Tours
Calendar Year
Category                        1977      1978      1979      1980      1981        Total
A. Number of Fellowships
and Study Tours
Overseas fellowships  no.          -          3        3         4        -           10
Local fellowships       no.        -        10        15        15        -           40
Study tours             no.        20       20        20        20        20         100
B. Costs
Overseas fellowships  US$'000   -            36       72        84        48         240
Local fellowships          "       -        19        47        56        28         150
Study tours                "       40       40        40        40        40         200
Annual Costs             It     40        95       159       180       116         590



ANNEX 8
Table 8
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Consulting Services
Calendar Year
Item                             1977      1978      1979      1980      1981       Total
A. Man-months
Extension (Expatriate)
Extension specialists              20       50        60        60        50         240
Short-term consultants              5        5         5         5         -          20
Monitoring consultant               3         3         3        3         3          15
Subtotal                   28        58        68       68        53         275
Engineering: (Local)
Design and tendering               79        66       50        33         -         228
Construction supervision
(resident technician)           24        72        48        36         _        180
(zone supervision)              12        24        24        24         -          84
(head office engineer)           4         4         4         4         -          16
Subtotal                  119       166      126        97         -         508
B. Costs (US$'000)
Extension                         170      355       410       405       320       1,660
Engineering
Design and tendering /a           150      125        95        60         -         430
Construction supervision
(resident technician)           20        70        50        40         -        180
(zone supervision)              25        50        50        45         -        170
(head office engineer)          10        10        10        10         -          40
Subtotal                  205       255       205       155                  820
Total costs
consulting services   375        610       615       560       320       2,480
/a Includes procurement.



ANMEX 8
Table 9
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year                               1977   1978   1979   1980   1981  1982 /a Total
Civil Works
Annual cost lb                   US$ '000  1,410  3,200  2,710  2,530    990              10,840
Rate of inflation                    (%)        12     12      12      10     10
Expected price increases         US$ '000       85    600    895  1,200    620              3,400
Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture
Annual cost /b                   US$ '000    810  3,045  2,905  2,510    440                9,710
Rate of inflation                    t%)         8       8      8       7       7
Expected price increases         US$ '000       30    375    620    760    175             1,960
Consultants and Training
Annual cost /b                   US$ '000    415    705    775    740    435                3,070
Rate of inflation                    (%)         8       8      8       7       7
Expected price increase          US$ '000       20     90    165    225    220                720
Incremental Operating Costs
Annual cost Ic                   US$ '000       85    645  1,380  1,920  2,170  1,000   7,210
Rate of inflation                    (%)        12     12      12      10     10      10
Expected price increases         US$ '000        5    120    450    910  1,345    350   3,180
Incremental Salaries
Annual cost /d                   US$ '000    405  2,945  4,830  4,200  1,910              14,290
Rate of inflation                    (%)         5       5      5       5       5
Expected price increases         US$ '000       10    225    630    785    470              2,120
Total Price Increases          US$ '000    150  1,410  2,760  3,880  2,830    350  11,380
/a Hal:E year only.
/b Rate of build-up in Annex 8, Table 4.
Ic Rate of build-up in Annex 8, Table 5.
/d Rate of build-up in Annex 8, Table 6.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Vehicle List
It em                                Quantity       Rate     Estimated Cost
(US$)       (US$'000)
Audio-visual units /a                            8      16,200            130
Four-wheel drive vehicles                     110        8,500            935
Minibuses                                       33       7,500            250
Light pick-up trucks                          600        4,000         2,400
Sedans                                         10        8,000             80
Motorcycles (100 cc)                        3,150           550         1,735
Spares                                                                   220
Total                                                          5,750
/a  Costs in Annex 9, Table 2.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Equipment for Audio-Visual Unit
Item                                Quantity     Estimated Cost
(US$)
Electric generator                              1               500
Cassette audio player/recorder deck              1              175
VTR playback unit, 3/4" cassette                 1            1,500
16 mm cine projector, optical/magnetic          1             1,200
2 x 2 slide projector                           1               200
Amplifier                                        1              350
Radio A14/FM/SW                                  1              150
Microphones                                      2              150
Horn speakers (outdoor type)                     2              250
Set lights                                       1              100
Cables, connectors, extensions                                  200
Projection screen 70 x 70                        1              100
Projection screen 70 x 70 (day light)           1               100
T-V color receivers                             3             1,800
VTR cassettes, 30 min.                          10              250
Audio cassettes, C-60                           12               30
Tool set                                         1               50
Set spare parts                                 1               150
Fuel can, funnel, hose                                           10
Flashlights                                     2                 5
Projection table                                 1               80
Cabinets, padding                                               250
Miscellaneous                                                   100
Subtotal            7,700
4-wheel drive vehicle                             8,500
Total               16,200



AN,NiEX 9
Table 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Equipment List
Item                          Quantity   Unit Price /a Estimated
US$           Cost
(US$ '000)
A. Items Suitable for International Competitive Bidding
Audio-visual e3uipment for training centers
(Annex 9, Taole 5)                                  -            -               267
Photocopiers                                            30        2,000              60
Roneo - duplicators                                   280           870            244
Portable loud 2ailers                                 300           150              45
Public address s-stems                                  30          700              21
Movie cameras (16 mm, tripod, editor)                    4        1,500               6
Movie projectors  (16 mm opt./mag.)                     30        1,200              36
Slide projectors (2 x 2)                              300           200             60
Overhead projectors                                     40          325              13
Projector screens (60" x 60")                         300            50              15
Cameras (35 =m                                        300           150              45
Photo enlargers                                          6          500               3
Tape recorders (cassette, battery)                      40          200               8
Desk calculato-rs                                       30          160               5
Hand calculato-s                                      420            50              21
Scales (portable 0 1-l00 kg)                         145           350              51
Grain moisture meters                                  100        1,000             100
Soil testing kits                                     300           100             30
Water pumps                                             50        2,400             120
Plant protection equipment                             LS           -              325
Subtc- al                                                                1,475
B.  Items for L.cal Competitive Bidding
Furniture 'Arinex 9. Table 4)                         -             -              800
Seeds (tonnes'                                          50          120               6
Fertilizers (tonnes)                                  500           250             125
Agro-chemicals                                          LS          -               150
Darkroom equipment (set)                                 6          500               3
Drawing set                                             30           33               1
Kitchen & cafeLeria equipment                          IS           -               200
Field experiment equipment, tools and
demonstration materials                              LS           -              250
Home economics equipment                               LS           -               150
Miscellaneous equipment                                 LS          -               140
Subtotal                                                                 1,825
Total                                                                     3,300
M-  -    --        I 4fC-  - ,7 .         t--          'NA  1 ;7,C



ANNEX 9
Table 4
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Furniture List
Item                                    Quantity    Unit Price   Estimated
US$          Cost
(US$ 000)
Office desk & chair (set)                          1,200           90           108
Tables & chairs (set)                              4,000           40           160
Chairs (only)                                     13,500           10           135
Beds                                                 450           50            23
Typist tables                                        900           40            36
Filing cabinets (steel)                            1,700           45            77
Steel cab-inets                                      850           60            51
Book cases                                         1,600           30            48
Drawing tables                                        40          100             4
Map drawer cabinets                                   70          170            12
Blackboard & pinboard (set)                          400           50            20
Display cases                                        400           50            20
Storage cabinets (wood)                              750           40            30
Miscellaneous items                                   LS            -            76
Total                                               800



ANNEX 9
Table 5
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Audio-Visual Equipment - Training Centers
Item                         Quantity    Unit Price    Estimated
US$            Cost
(US$)
Studio video tape recording camera (color)   4               5,200         20,800
Portable video tape recording camera
(color-complete)                              4            8,000         32,000
Studio video tape recorder No. 1
(editing)                                      4           3,000         12,000
Studio video tape recorder No. 2                 4           1,950          7,800
Cassette video tape recorder
1/2 inch (copying for 3/4" - slow motion)  4               1,950          7,800
Video tape playback unit (color)                11           1,950         21,450
Video tape camera/recorder unit
(monochrome)                                 11            2,600         28,600
TV color receiver (21")                         12           1,050          12,600
Color TV monitor (21" or 23")                   33             750         24,750
Audio tape recorder (portable, mono              4             400           1,600
Audio tape recorder (studio, stereo)             8             400           3,200
Cassette deck (audio, stereo)                    4             260          1,040
Turntable with pick-up arm and cartridge         4             230             920
Cassette player/recorder/radio                  11             200          2,200
Cassette recorder/playback unit                 33             380         12,540
Splicers (tape 1/2" and 3/4")                    8              80             640
Audio speaker  (8")                              8             200           1,600
Microphone                                       8             260           2,080
TV editing monitors (8)                         12             950         11,400
Slide projector (carousel, 2 x 2)                4             280           1,120
Overhead projector                               4             300           1,200
Movie projector (16 mm, opt./mag.)               4           1,300           5,200
Extension speaker for movie projector            4             140             560
Amplifier/mixer                                  4             400           1,600
Projector screen (70 x 70)                       4             120             480
Rear projector screen (50 x 50)                  4             160             640
Radio (MW/SW; AM/FM)                             4             100             400
Studio lights (set)                              4             390           1,560
Movie camera (super 8)                           4             390           1,560
Movie projector (super 8)                        4             390           1,560
Camera (35 mm)                                   4             590           2,360
Recharger (AC adaptor)                           4             390           1,560
Electric generator                               4             520           2,080
Cassettes, tapes and records                    LS              -           9,300
Miscellaneous items                             LS              -          10,800
Spare parts                                     LS              -20,000
Total                                          267,000



THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
IBRD Fiscal Years                                         Thai Fiscal Years
Item                   FY77   FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81   FY82   Total          FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81  FY82   Total
_________________-- (US$ '000)  ------------------         ----------  (Baht Million) -------------
Capital Costs
Civil Works                         460  2,330   2,125   2,330   1,785        -    9,030       17.9   46.9   47.9   43.8   27.5   -          184.0
Vehicles, Equipment and
Furniture                             2,600   2,630   2,465   1,355        -    9,050      17.1   48.5   54.2   46.7   17.9   -          184.4
Physical Contingencies               90    655      595      640     490      -    2,470        4.7   12.8   13.2   12.0    7.6   -          50.3
Training and Consulting Services
Training                              -     85      130      170     155      50      590       0.6    1.6    2.9    3.6    3.3   -           12.0
Consultants                          70    610      615      585     600      -    2,480        5.5   11.4   12.2   12.2    9.2   -           50.5
Incremental Operating Costs
O&M Buildings, Furniture and
Equipment                                40      200      395     575    680   1,890          -     1.2    5.3    8.4   11.6  12.0        38.5
O&M Vehicles                               170      400      660      840    885   2,955        0.6    4.3    9.4   14.9   17.5  13.5         60.2
Salaries                                 1,880   3,880   4,510   3,060    960  14,290           2.0   21.2   69.7   95.2  103.1   -          291.2
Ext, nsion Activities and
tn-service Training                      65      165     270      335    360   1,195        0.1    1.8    4.0    5.9    7.1   5.4         24.3
Monitoring                                  45       75      100      115     60      395       0.2    0.9    1.6    2.2    3.1    -           8.0
DAE Administrative Overheads                90      180      220      180    105      775       0.2    2.3    4.1    4.5    3.3   1.5         15.9
Expected Price Increases               50  _ 600   1,810   3,160   3,530  2,230  11,380           0.6   24.0   49.3   73.4   63.0  21.6    231.9
Total Project Costs                   670  9,170  12,805  15,505  13,020  5,330  56,500          49.5  176.9  273.8  322.8  274.2  54.0  1,151.2
a' Z
{DX
I- H-
o



ANNEX 10
Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                           Accumulated
and Semester                            Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY78  1st                                     1.5
2nd                                    3.8
FY79  1st                                     7.0
2nd                                   10.2
FY80  1st                                    13.5
2nd                                   17.0
FY81  1st                                    21.0
2nd                                   24.0
FY82  1st                                    26.0
2nd                                   27.5
FY83  1st                                    28.0



A24NEX 10
Table 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Total   Foreign   Proposed Loan
Category                                ------      US$ Million---------
I.    Civil works including  contractor         9.0      3.6
mobilization /a
Expected price increases /b              3.4       1.4
Subtotal                           12.4       5.0         10.7
Disbursement will be at 85% of total expenditure.
II.   Vehicles, equipment and furniture /c   9.0         8.0
Expected price increases /b              2.0       1.9
Subtotal                           11.0      9.9          11.0
Disbursement will be 100% of total expenditure for directly imported
goods, 100% of expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured goods
and 65% of total expenditure for imported equipment procured locally.
III.  Consultants and training /d               3.1      2.0
Expected price increases /b              0.7       0.5
Subtotal                            3.8       2.5          3.8
Disbursements will be 100% of total expenditure.
IV.  Unallocated
Physical contingencies /e                2.5       1.4           2.5
Incremental operating costs /f         (21.5)    (2.5)
Expected price increases /b             (5.3)    (0.7)
Total                             56.5      22.0         28.0
/a  Annex 8, Table 2.
/b  Annex 8, Table 9.
/c  Annex 9, Tables 1, 3 and 4.
/d  Annex 8, Tables 3 and 8.
/e  Annex 8, Table 2.
/f  Annex 8, Table 5.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Schedule of Events
Action                                         Date
1. Administration
Streamlining head office organization                      Mar   1977
Completion project monitoring proposal                     Apr   1977
2. Consulting Services
Appointments Engineering Management Consultants            Jan   1977
Appointments Extension Consultants                         Mar   1977
3. Construction of 1st Year's Civil Works Program
(not including NERD program)
Completion of designs and site plans                       June  1977
Award of contracts                                         Dec   1977
Completion of construction                                 Dec   1978
4.  Procurement of Furniture and Equipment /a
Advertisement of bids                                      June  1977
Award of Contracts                                         Sept  1977
Receipt of goods (completed)                               Jan   1978
5. Procurement of Vehicles /b
Advertisements of bids                                     Nov   1976
Award of contracts                                         Mar   1977
Receipt of goods (completed)                               Oct   1977
/a For buildings completed in year 1
/b For staff appointed in year 1



THAI LAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR                      1976            1977                 1978                  1979                  1980                 1981
CIVIL WORKS                                                              2                                                      1
Regional Training Centers (3)
8                    9                     8              4
Provincial Extension Centers  (29)
10             72                    82                    83            38
District Extension Centers (285)
20              150                  175                   185           70
Staff Houses (600)                                               -
PROCUREMENT
13%                  29%                  25%                   23%           10%
Furniture and Equipment                    _   -              -          -i       - _*_-              E - -                     -_
12%                  33%                   30%                   25%
Vehicles                                                 ml             ------   m                        -         -      =  __
12%                  33%                   30%                   25%
STAFF APPOINTMENTS                      luu.um.. Inn..... .....u..nf a..naiuu. uzuuiu...  ...uu                                                            X
designs and tenders
construction
- m    m      procurement
ssssssisssss   staff appointments                                                                                                              World Bank-16178






THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Organization Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC)
MINISTER
H   OFFICE OF SECRETARY
TO THE MINISTER
DEPARTMENTS                               DIVISiONS
* AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY              * CENTRAL
* AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION               0 FINANCE
* LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT                * PERSONNEL
* FISHERIES                            0 FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL
* LAND DEVELOPMENT                      RELATIONS
* ROYAL IRRIGATION                     * AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION
* ROYAL FOREST                         * AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS
* COOPERATIVE PROMOTION                * AGRICULTURAL AVIATION
* COOPERATIVE AUDITING                 * PLANNING
L  _______________________* *AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH
COORDINATION
* REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
CENTERS
World Bank-15659






THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Headquarters Organization of Department of Agricultural Extension
Director General     1
Dep. Dir GeneralGera
Technical Services                                                     nSrie
Senior
Administrative
Officer
Seed               Plant                 Extension          Agricultura          Rural
Secretariat          Personnel           Finance               Technia              Iutipli-                                 and                  11
cation        Protection            TriigRelations                          Institutions
* Correspon-        * Organiza-         * Accounting          * Rice              *Seed               * Pest                 * Extension         * Publications      * Home Econo-
dence               tion and      * Procurement         * Root Crops           Centers                 Control              Planning           AdoViulmics
* Planning               Manpower    * Disbursement           * Fiber                                 * Disease                  and Imple-    *Audio  Viua              Rural Youth
Evaluation          Planning                                  Crops                                   Control               mentation                          * Farmers'
* Public            * Recruit-                                * Vegetable                              * Weed                * Special           * Radio Programs          Associations
Relations           ment                                      Crops                                    Control              Projects        - Exhibitions
* Fruit  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-Farmer Contests
* Rubber                                                        Training
* Sericulture                                                   Planning
* Farm Manage-                                                  and Implemen-
ment and                                                   tation
Economics
* Marketing
* Farm Mecha-
nization
World Bank-1 61 79






THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Organization
Ministry of Interior                                  Ministry of Agriculture
NATIONAL                                                                                                                               National Coordinating
LEVEL                                                                     Director General                                             Committee for
Agricultural Extension       7                               Agricultural Extension
REGIONAL
LEVEL                                                                   Regional Extension.Officer-
PROVINCIAL                                                                         1_
PROVINCIAL                                                                 Provincial Extension                                        Provincial Agricultural
LEVEL                    G                                                 Officer                      _                              Extension Coordinating
_______ ___ 33_   _ _ _ _ _ _ __Ij                                  Committee
I  *| Technical
Advisory
DISTRICT                                                                     District I                       Panel
LEVELSDistrict                                                              District Extension
LEVEL                  DititOfficer
Administrator                                        Oi(3321
SUB-DISTRICT
LEVEL                                                                        Extension Agent
(about 3100)
VILLAGE
VILLAGE                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Contact
LEVEL
Farmers
Farmer
Groups
/Personnel requirements shown in parentheses                                                                                               World Bank-16180






F                                                         4~~~~~~~~~-0
I Chiang Roi                                                       WO            334o   13 THlE P3flECT~
7q ~                                                                                               op94   snn4l IMRVpEN  ROETEE3nW
{Mae Hong?
V   son~ 
-    ~~  _               -  tTE33%TThW~~~~I    2 P &MLE3 
1       0-0
Ch      [cimpang;                                                 F
N                                                    0        (
r               Ll~~~~~~~\  ttaradit  0L e                '                     ...I.n ~ I
ToW'  <'~~~~~~~~~  A  (* ~ ~  ~     ~     N~  THJ A-/  E 
Khon Ken             cosn        -2 
p            J     0      t--~~: ~0T0                                                c a -.
CKamphaeng Phet(                                                 I hthbn      -
16                        It                         I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~nPh P'ch0bu[I//   
'---k.  'hI Cholyophuln~k -       orkh
I---I-Sarak a
Lo  Bn      okhonRtcaim
C                                   l~~~~~Nkh SowoBnrIJ 
0 '1-             7<.- 
0            ~0                                -\
burl  0H ~ ~~0Buim 
1'~~~  51,       2~~~ 'r Sar Bur       hniur
IsuphoChchengo                        -
fff~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~o Buri' -t
Phr,  Bul0                                'C                                   M    O    I
\WESTERrj      3/ oRo EoSTERNi
4     R  'Burthoi2 Notoeui
3             4. SomCh. ullon,ho           TN)
Phet Buri ~      6 ThonBBurl
1/                                 8. P~~~Po    I ahron Nukhon 5'Aynay 
j                           9Ang~~~~~~6.ThongB
0  5    ~ Chum~hn                                                          V    ,           implyttnttrPtr NO ohontSin AyutyhtIa
)  ) t          Gulf   of~9An Thai/an
I B trong      in-u
of      o
53  ,~~~~)    Km~  tflf       0 f         hjOa\
r--'  -             CHINA
7    Surot Tnoni,                                    ~r'
SOUTHERN  '-I                                                                                              tO IH
Phan6ngo                                                                                             'B,--  LI  ka-MA   Na.)
.2 \    Nohonj.                                                                             /- (            "
a,t  1  0         S, T  r~~f n 
Trong      01
\Prhlh(;. 
0,  -1                                         ~~            ~~~~~~~~~~/ Imn  China  Seao
0      100            20~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 300
0  0                      100                      200
8                                                      100                 M L       Y II                                                          N  B  S      A 



