Document of
1LE Copy                    Te World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.p-2O19-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
March 18, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Baht
US$1.00                  =                  20.00
g 1.00                                    US$0.05
g 1.00 million                            US$50,000
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC - Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
DAE - Department of Agricultural Extension
EO   - Extension Officer
MOAC - Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOF - Marketing Organization for Farmers
NARC - National Administrative Reform Council
USAID- United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $28 million to the
Kingdom of Thailand to help finance a national agricultural extension project.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years' grace, with
interest at 8-1/2% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Thailand (1280a-TH; dated October 29, 1976) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1976. Country data are
given in Annex I.
Recent Political Events
3.        Following the April 1976 eLections, the coalition Government of
Prime Minister Seni Pramoj succeeded that of Kukrit Pramoj, which had been in
power for just over a year. However, on October 6, following the eruption of
violence at the Thammasat University between leftwing students and rightwing
groups, some 24 high ranking military officers formed the National Administra-
tive Reform Council (NARC), headed by Admiral Sangad Chalawyoo, and seized
power. NARC abrogated the 1974 Consl:itution, dissolved the National Assembly
and outlawed all political parties.
4.        On NARC's recommendation, the King appointed Thanin Kraiwichian, a
Senior Judge of the Supreme Court, as Prime Minister on October 8. The Prime
Minister announced a Cabinet of 17 members drawn from a wide range of backgrounds
on October 22. On the same day, a new Constitution, which provides for, among
other things, the establishment of a National Administrative Reform Assembly
and a phased return to full democracy over 16 years, was promulgated. The
Assembly consisting of 340 appointed members met for the first time on
November 25, 1976, wheb NARC, which had been acting as an interim legislature,
assumed an advisory role to the Cabinet. The Constitution bestows wide ranging
powers on the Prime Minister on matters relating to law and order and national
security.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents nmy not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Recent Economic Developments
5.        Thailand's growth performance over the decade of 1965-75 has been
good. Rapid growth of both the agricultural and industrial sectors, which
recorded annual average growth rates in constant prices of 5% and 10% respec-
tively, enabled the real GDP to expand at an average rate of 7.5% annually. The
country also achieved impressive investment and savings rates throughout the
period. Gross domestic capital formation ranged from 20% to 27% of GDP, with
private fixed investment constituting at least two-thirds of total fixed
investment each year. The share of gross domestic savings in GDP ranged from
19 to 22%. As a result, in no year did the resource gap (import surplus needed
for financing the levels of consumption and investment achieved) exceed 5% of
GDP, and was considerably less in most years.
6.        However, over the Third Plan period 1972-76, the growth rate, esti-
mated at 6% per annum, fell short of the 7% target, as a result, inter alia, of
the following factors: (a) slower growth in agriculture (4% instead of targeted
5%), where progress in intensifying production techniques has been slow; (b) a
cautious fiscal policy that substantially reduced real public investment in
1973-74; and (c) the international recession of 1974-75, which particularly
affected export industries such as the textile and clothing industry.
7.        The economy has recovered steadily from the deceleration which
began in the second half of 1974. The growth rate of real GDP rose from 4.6%
in 1974 to 5.5% in 1975, and a growth rate of close to 6.5% is estnimated for
1976. In sharp contrast to the situation in 1973-74, when the external sector
and private investment provided the main stimulus to growth, the much-needed
stimulus to demand in 1975 and 1976 cane from the public sector, with a strong
expansion in export receipts reinforcing the growth of domestic demand in the
latter year. Preliminary data suggest that private investment in 1976 fell
somewhat from the peak level of 18% of GDP attained in 1974 and 1975.
8 .       Both in 1975 and 1976 the baLance of payments registered much higher
current account deficits than in the previous years ($600 million in each year
compared to US$50 million in 1973 and $90 million in 1974). The major reason
for the emergence of larger current account deficits is the detericration in
Thailand's terms of trade. Between 1973 and 1975, the country's terms of trade
declined by almost 20%. In 1974, mainLy due to the hike in oil prices, the
import price index rose by over 50%; a substantial improvement in prices of most
of the country's major exports, however, helped to limit the decline in the
terms of trade to about 10%. In 1975, on the other hand, although import price
increases moderated, there was a further substantial fall in the terms of trade
as export prices stabilized or fell. In 1976, the decline in the terms of trade
is not expected to have exceeded 5%.
9.        In spite of increased foreign borrowing by the public sector in
1975, the total net capital inflows were lower than in the previous year
because of a substantial reduction in net private capital inflows. Private
direct foreign investment declined from $137 million in 1974 to $65 million
in 1975, and private loans and credits also fell significantly, while sizeable
repayments commenced on loans contracted in 1974. As a consequence of the



- 3 -
higher current account deficit and lower net capital inflows, reserves, which
had increased in 1974, declined by $195 million to $1,369 million in 1975.
Private inflows in 1976 appear not to have changed significantly from the
depressed levels of 1975. Public capital inflows, on the other hand, increased
substantially as the country's first Eurodollar loan of $100 million was drawn
down and project loans committed in 1974-75 began to be disbursed.    Taking
account c,f the utilization of an SDR 67 million loan under the IMF's compensatory
financing scheme, the overall balance of payments in 1976 is expec:ted to show a
small surplus.  The country's reserve3 at the end of 1976 equaled about four and
one-half months' imports.
10.       Thailand achieved a large measure of price stability in 1975.    Slower
demand growth, stable export prices and a moderate increase in import prices
limited the rise in the consumer price index to 5.3%, a sharp decEleration from
an annual average increase of 20% ovec 1973-74. The rate of inflation in 1976
amounted to only 4.2%.
Development Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
11.       Achieving a satisfactory rate of economic and social development
over the next few years will require policy initiatives in a number of areas.
In particular, the following objectives would need to be given continued impor-
tance in the country's development strategy: (a) substantial improvement in
agricultural yields; (b) revitalization of the industrial sector with greater
emphasis on export-oriented industries; (c) faster employment growth; and (d)
improvement in the distribution of regional and personal incomes.
12.       A further problem that has received increasing attention is the
country's relatively high rate of population growth.     Starting in the late
'sixties the Government has given steadily increasing attention to fertility
reduction. Considerable success has been achieved in developing a national
family planning program, and the population growth rate has been reduced from
over 3% in the late 'sixties to an est:imated 2.6% today. The crude birth rate
is estimated to have fallen from 42 to 34; a further drop to 29-30 is targeted
for 1981, for which a growth rate of 2.1% has been set. Encouraging progress
has been made in recruiting acceptors from the rural areas as well as from
cities and towns. Achieving the 1981 demographic targets will depend on
a strengthening and expansion of rural health and family planning services,
including their extension to the village level, and on continuing the Ministry
of Public Health's past success in upgrading the effectiveness of the contra-
ceptive "mix". A larger effort to strengthen long-term demand for family
planning will be launched during the Fourth Plan (1977-1981), as increasing
numbers of acceptors will have to come from groups whose motivation is now
weak.
13.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will require a steady increase in public expendi-
tures over the next few years. Public expenditures have increased substanti-
ally in nominal terms since 1974, but these increases have merely restored
the share of the public sector in the country's resources to that prevailing
before 1973-74, when public spending declined in real terms as a result of



- 4 -
an anti-inflationary policy. A reasonably ambitious development program for
the next few years will also require much greater efforts to mobilize both
domestic and external resources than over the Third Plan period. With the
economy's steady recovery, the need for prudent deficit financing has
narrowed; consequently, the recent declining trend in the rate of public
savings will need to be reversed. At the same time, the deterioration in
the country's terms of trade has raised substantially the external capital
flows needed for achieving a satisfactory rate of growth.
14.       The recent evolution of policy concerns and strategies is reflected
in the draft Fourth Plan for 1977-81. The Plan's principal objectives in-
clude a growth target of 7%, a more equitable distribution of income, reduc-
tion in the rate of population growth and generation of employment opportuni-
ties. The draft Plan discusses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad
terms and will have limited operational significance unless it is supplemented
by a program covering investment commitments proposed over at least the next
two to three years. The new Government has approved the draft Plan in principle.
The draft Plan proposes public sector development expenditures of $12.5 billion
for the Plan period as compared to an estimated level of $4.6 billion achieved
over the Third Plan period. Although this level implies a doubling of develop-
ment expenditures in real terms, it will raise the share of public investment
in GDP from 5% over the Third Plan to only 6% over the Fourth Plan period.
The size of the public sector development program cannot, therefore, be con-
sidered to be overly ambitious.
15.       The financing of this program is likely to require commitments of
about $3-3.5 billion in project financing and a further public borrowing of
between $500-700 million through sources such as Eurocurrency loans, suppliers'
credits and industrial countries' export financing facilities. These external
borrowing requirements should not place a heavy burden on the country's debt
servicing capacity. The projected public sector external borrowing would raise
the public debt service ratio (debt service payments as a percentage of exports)
from 2.6% in 1975 to 4.7% in 1981. The debt service ratio for total debt, which
amounted to 15.4% in 1975, should remain below 17% over the Fourth Plan period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
16.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 37
loans amounting to $865.9 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have
been for transportation ($186.0 million), irrigation ($163.8 million) and power
($166 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and irrigation
project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for water supply ($55
million), telecommunications ($63 million), education ($52.3 million), industry
($38 million), rural development ($21 million), livestock ($5 million) and
rubber replanting ($50 million). In addition, Thailand has received IDA
credits of $19.5 million for education and $12.5 million for irrigation improve-
ment. In general, Bank-financed projects have been carried out in accordance
with expectations; and implementation of those on which problems have earlier
been reported is improving. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments (as of January 31, 1977) as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.



17.       The Bank is diversifying its lending program in Thailand.    In the
next few years a smaller proportion of lending is planned for transportation
and power projects, while projects to support a broad range of agrLcultural
development, rural works and infrastructure, family planning, education,
small- and medium-scale industries and low-cost housing and slum improvements
would account for about two thirds of the proposed program. Increasingly,
projects are being selected to spread development benefits to the Lower
income groups and in the most neglected areas; one of the main functions of
the Bank's Resident Regional Mission in Bangkok is to assist the Government
in developing projects which will achieve this goal. The Bank's readiness to
finance some local costs in appropriate cases will enable the Bank to parti-
cipate more fully in projects in agriculture and the social sectors with
significant social benefits.
18.       For FY77 and FY78, in addition to the proposed loan, the rural
population is expected to be assisted by loans to be proposed for irrigation
projects in the Central and Northeastern Regions and a population project to
improve the health and family planning services primarily in the p):ovinces. A
sites and services and slum upgrading project in Bangkok is designed to benefit
the urban poor. A DFC project, already approved this fiscal year, will stimu-
late medium-scale industry development, and an industrial estates project
currently under appraisal would help attract and develop small and medium scale
industries outside the greater metropolitan area. Other likely projects in the
period are rural electrification in the Northeast, a multipurpose dam in the
South and provincial highways.
19.       As of January 31, 1977, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed and
outstanding amounted to $333.0 million, representing about 21 percent of
the country's estimated total external debt and about 43 percent oi: public
external debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest overall
public external debt (4.2% of GDP in 1975). In addition, although the level
of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five years, the
Bank Group's share is expected to decline rapidly to about 30 percent of
total public external debt in 1982. The Bank's share in total debt: outstanding
and debt service would be much smaller; the former would remain at about 20%
and the latter is not expected to exceed 10%.
20.       IFC has made two equity investments in the Industrial Finance
Corporation of Thailand totalling $380,000, two loans to and an investment in
the Siam Cement group totalling $32.08 million, and a loan of $300,000 to
Concrete Products Ltd. Prospects for other IFC operations are reasonably
good; IFC has been asked to arrange the debt financing of approximately $50
million for a $90 million zinc mining and refinery project. Prospective
projects are the development of privately sponsored industrial estates, sugar
bulk handling facilities and a chemical project to produce carbon black for
domestic tire manufacturers.   The Capital Markets Department is considering
an investment in a mutual fund management company and has been invited to
assist the Government Housing Bank.



- 6 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND EXTENSION SERVICES
The Agriculture Sector
21.       Thailand's economy is predominantly agricultural, and some 20% of
its total land area is under cultivation. Agriculture accounts for about 37%
of GDP, more than 60% of export earnings (mainly rice, rubber, maize, cassava,
kenaf and sugar), and about 78% of total employment. The annual growth rate
of agricultural output averaged 5.5% in the 1960s but has slowed to 4% since
1970. Past increases in crop production have come about primarily through
expansion in the area cultivated; new areas suitable for cultivation are
rapidly diminishing, and the future growth necessary to support the population
and maintain the country's export strength will depend upon concerted efforts
to intensify production in existing agricultural areas.
22.       There is considerable scope for increased productivity in agricul-
ture. Average crop yields are low, fertilizer consumption is among the lowest
in Asia, and improved cultivation technologies have been adopted only to a
limited extent. While the potential for intensifying production is great, if
this potential is to be realized steps must be taken to improve agricultural
practices, credit and input supplies among smallholders who represent the
vast majority of Thai farmers, to develop irrigation further, and to improve
price and tax policies.
23.       A wide gap exists between the present practices of the majority of
Thai farmers and known technology suitable for smallholder agriculture.
Increases in yields can be achieved for most crops through the application
of simple but improved farming methods, i.e., even without increases in the
use of purchased inputs. Thus one of the most direct means at the Govern-
ment's disposal for improving productivity of Thai agriculture is by strength-
ening its agriculture extension service to the 4.6 million farm families
dependent on agriculture for their livelihood.
Present Extension Services in Thailand
24.       The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC), is responsible for providing extension
services for most agricultural crops. Its efforts are complemented by those
of the Departments of Livestock Development, Fisheries, Land Development and
Cooperative Promotion, also within the MOAC, which provide these services for
animal husbandry and pasture and forage production, aquaculture, land develop-
ment and the agricultural cooperatives, respectively. The Tobacco Monopoly
operates an efficient extension service for tobacco growers, the Rubber
Replanting Aid Fund provides extension to smallholders in the early years of
its rubber replanting schemes, and some sugar factories provide minimal
extension service to farmers growing cane on contract.
25.       The DAE - headed by a Director-General, assisted by two deputies -
is divided at headquarters level into nine divisions. Administrative
responsibilities have been unclear, however, and the divisions have lacked



- 7 -
proper guidance and direction. In the field, DAE is organized into six
regional offices, 71 provincial offices and 620 district offices, each headed
by an Extension Officer (EO). The regional extension offices are responsible
for providing specialized services to the provinces and handle pest eradica-
tion programs within their jurisdiction; they have no direct supervisory
responsibility, and all Provincial EOs report directly to the Director-
General. Provincial offices administer and supervise the work of the
district extension offices, the home base of all extension agents who are
the final link with the farmer.
26.       While the broad outline of an extension network thus exists, in
practice the existing extension service has numerous weaknesses. First and
foremost is the dearth of extension agents. At present, each district office
has only two extension agents, each of whom is expected to serve some 3,700
farmers on average. The time they can devote to actual farmer contact is
limited by a considerable administrative work load and by the fact that they
lack transport. In addition, though graduates of agricultural schools, many
of the extension agents are from urban backgrounds and have difficulty in
communicating with the farmers.
27.       At the provincial and regional levels, a major weakness is the
shortage of Subject Matter Specialists - technical specialists who can trans-
late research findings into practical on-the-farm practices - with, on
average, only two such specialists per province. This very small pool of
technical advisers simply cannot give the technical support needed by
district extension personnel. Tied down with excessive paper work, the
Subject Matter Specialists rarely have sufficient time to keep themselves up
to date on recent developments in agricultural research or to mount training
programs for extension agents.
28.       Recognizing the importance of agricultural extension to Thailand's
economic development, the Government has undertaken, with the help of the
Bank Group, several pilot extension efforts under recent irrigation projects
(Credits 379-TH and 461-TH, and Loan 1149-TH), as well as the Northeast
Thailand Rural Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH). These projects are
making use of enterprising and knowledgeable farmers serving in the role of
"farmer foremen," who are responsible for liaison between the professional
extension service and the project area farmers. The information they receive
from extension agents is passed on to ten leading farmers in their village at
fortnightly or weekly meetings. These leading farmers are then expected to
communicate with about 20 of their neighbors. While this system has led to
noticeable improvements in extension work, some problems have arisen which
indicate that this heavy reliance on farmer foremen is impractical. In par-
ticular, the progressive farmers who have been selected as foremen have not
been able to devote enough time to their task when most needed, i.e., during
busy times in the cropping season when they are required on their own farms.
The Government has therefore decided not to rely to such an extent on farmer
foremen in developing its national extension program, but rather to make the
necessary investment in trained manpower, by employing a larger number of
vocational school graduates as full-time extension agents. The extension
methodology being successfully employed under ongoing schemes - involving






- 9 -
functional responsibilities over the headquarters extension and technical
divisions, while a senior administrative officer has been appointed to
supervise the headquarters administrative divisions, including the Finance
Division which will be in charge of project procurement. Organizat:ional
links between the field level and headquarters have been strengthened by
giving Regional EOs responsibility for supervising work of the Provincial
EOs. The chain of command will continue as in the past through the District
EOs and the extension agents ensuring that at each level officers (leal with a
manageable number of subordinates whom they know well.
32.       The Government has taken or will take several steps to ensure that
the extension activities of DAE are coordinated with related programs admin-
istered by other agencies, such as those providing extension services in
specialized fields or those affecting the supply of inputs and irrigation
water, the provision of credit, produce marketing and land development (see
Section 3.09 of draft Loan Agreement). First, it has established a
National Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Extension, chaired by the
Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture and including representatives from
other Ministries and other concerned departments of MOAC as well as from the
Marketing Organization for Farmers (MOF) and the Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC).   Second, it will establish a Provincial
Agricultural Extension Coordinating Conmittee in each of the project provinces
when incorporated in the project, with membership drawn from the important
agriculture-related organizations in the province such as BAAC, MOF, the
Royal Irrigation Department and other M4OAC departments, the Rubber Replanting
Aid Fund, cooperatives, and trade orgaaizations. The Provincial Coordinating
Committee will meet prior to each cropping season under the chairmanship of
the Governor to exchange relevant information on all ongoing and planned
agricultural activities. Third, a Provincial Technical Advisory Panel
composed of research, extension and other related institutions will be
established in each province when incorporated in the project to evaluate
experimental results and overall area ::rop performance and to prepare a
package of recommendations for the folLowing season. Fourth, the Covern-
ment will ensure that the Departments of Livestock Development and Fisheries
participate actively in joint extensioni activities in areas where Extension
responsibilities overlap, and in particular that they provide SubjEct Matter
Specialists from their departments to train and backstop DAE extension agents
working with families who have mixed farm enterprises.
Extension Methodology
33.       Under the project, the extension methodology being successfully
employed in several limited areas under ongoing Bank projects (para. 28)
will be extended to the 33 project provinces, with the extension services
attempting to convey simple improvements in agricultural practices to the
2.8 million farm families living there. Such advice will concentrate on the
production of rice, cassava, maize, kenaf, cotton and mung beans, although
emphasis will initially be placed on one or two major crops in each region.
Advice will cover the entire production cycle, including selecting appro-
priate seed varieties and sources, obtaining correct plant stands, selecting



- 10 -
appropriate fertilizers and pesticides and applying them correctly, pre-
liminary processing of output (i.e. chipping cassava or retting kenaf) to a
reasonable standard of quality to ensure marketability, and obtaining
institutional credit at reasonable interest rates.
34.       Field level extension services will be organized and directed from
the District Extension Center by the District EO, assisted by a Deputy and up
to eight extension agents. Each extension agent would be responsible for
extension activities in about ten villages, or about 1,000 farmers. In each
village he will select about ten "contact farmers" and demonstrate to them in
scheduled weekly or biweekly visits the practices which should be followed
before the next scheduled visit. Each contact farmer will be responsible
for imparting the recommendations to about ten of his neighbors. The extension
agent will visit other farmers, as tLme and circumstances permit, to ensure
that recommendations are being transmitted, understood, and follcwed. The most
important single objective will be to motivate the contact farmers to adopt
the new techniques, as their fields iwill then become visual demonstrations
of the efficiency of those technique:;.
35.       Every fortnight extension agents and District EOs will attend a
one-day technical instruction session conducted by Subject Matter specialists
at the District Extension Center at which time the practical information to
be imparted to the farmers in the next two weeks will be discussed and
demonstrated. Subject Matter Specia.ists will spend about one third of their
time training, another third on research activities including contact with
research staff and institutions, and the remainder in the districts, assisting
extension agents, visiting farmers' field and demonstration plots, and
generally keeping in touch with the cverall farm situation.
36.       This focusing of extension effort on a few critical practices
relating to the major local crops, and on aspects where the probability of
quick results is greatest - such as increasing the plant density of rice and
reducing the density for maize, or controlling insect attack on cotton - will
ensure concentration of effort and improve the chances of holding the interest
and enthusiasm of both the farmers and the extension workers.
Staffing and Training
37.       To ensure that DAE has sufficient manpower at various levels, exten-
sion personnel in the 33 project provinces will be increased significantly.
Most importantly, a total of about 2,590 new extension agents and District EOs
will be recruited over the project period, improving the effective ratio of
district extension personnel to farm families within the project provinces from
approximately 1:4,400 to 1:1,000. To provide the needed technica4 training of
field staff, an additional 210 Subject Matter Specialists will be employed,
while organization of technical instruction sessions and training programs will
be carried out by training officers - three in each province. New staff will be
given permanent civil service positions and their salaries will be provided from
normal budgetary resources (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Candi-
dates with adequate vocational school and/or university training can be found in
the countryside at the proposed salaries, which are comparable to those of other
civil servants with similar backgrounds.



- 9 -
functional responsibilities over the headquarters extension and technical
divisions, while a senior administrative officer has been appointed to
supervise the headquarters administrative divisions, including the Finance
Division which will be in charge of project procurement. Organizat:ional
links between the field level and headquarters have been strengthened by
giving Regional EOs responsibility for supervising work of the Provincial
EOs. The chain of command will continue as in the past through the District
EOs and the extension agents ensuring that at each level officers deal with a
manageable number of subordinates whom they know well.
32.       The Government has taken or will take several steps to ensure that
the extension activities of DAE are coordinated with related programs admin-
istered by other agencies, such as those providing extension services in
specialized fields or those affecting the supply of inputs and irrigation
water, the provision of credit, produce marketing and land development (see
Section 3.09 of draft Loan Agreement). First, it has established a
National Coordinating Committee for Agricultural Extension, chairecl by the
Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture and including representatives from
other Ministries and other concerned departments of MOAC as well as from the
Marketing Organization for Farmers (MOF) and the Bank for Agricultulre and
Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC).   Sec,nd, it will establish a Provincial
Agricultural Extension Coordinating Conmittee in each of the project provinces
when incorporated in the project, with membership drawn from the important
agriculture-related organizations in the province such as BAAC, MOF, the
Royal Irrigation Department and other M4OAC departments, the Rubber Replanting
Aid Fund, cooperatives, and trade orgaaizations. The Provincial Coordinating
Committee will meet prior to each cropping season under the chairmanship of
the Governor to exchange relevant information on all ongoing and planned
agricultural activities. Third, a Provincial Technical Advisory Penel
composed of research, extension and other related institutions will be
established in each province when incorporated in the project to evaluate
experimental results and overall area :rop performance and to prepare a
package of recommendations for the folLowing season. Fourth, the Covern-
ment will ensure that the Departments o,f Livestock Development and Fisheries
participate actively in joint extension activities in areas where Extension
responsibilities overlap, and in particular that they provide Subject Matter
Specialists from their departments to train and backstop DAE extens.ion agents
working with families who have mixed farm enterprises.
Extension Methodology
33.       Under the project, the extension methodology being successfully
employed in several limited areas under ongoing Bank projects (para. 28)
will be extended to the 33 project provinces, with the extension services
attempting to convey simple improvements in agricultural practices to the
2.8 million farm families living there. Such advice will concentrate on the
production of rice, cassava, maize, kenaf, cotton and mung beans, although
emphasis will initially be placed on one or two major crops in each region.
Advice will cover the entire production cycle, including selecting appro-
priate seed varieties and sources, obtaining correct plant stands, selecting



- 10 -
appropriate fertilizers and pesticides and applying them correctly, pre-
liminary processing of output (i.e. chipping cassava or retting kcenaf) to a
reasonable standard of quality to ensure marketability, and obtaLning
institutional credit at reasonable interest rates.
34.       Field level extension services will be organized and directed from
the Dist:rict Extension Center by the District EO, assisted by a Deputy and up
to eight extension agents. Each extension agent would be responsible for
extension activities in about ten villages, or about 1,000 farmers. In each
village he will select about ten "contact farmers" and demonstrate to them in
scheduled weekly or biweekly visits the practices which should bE! followed
before the next scheduled visit. Each contact farmer will be responsible
for imparting the recommendations to about ten of his neighbors. The extension
agent will visit other farmers, as tLme and circumstances permit, to ensure
that recommendations are being transmitted, understood, and follcwed. The most
important single objective will be to motivate the contact farmers to adopt
the new techniques, as their fields will then become visual demonstrations
of the efficiency of those techniquesi.
35.       Every fortnight extension agents and District EOs will attend a
one-day technical instruction sessioil conducted by Subject Matter specialists
at the District Extension Center at which time the practical information to
be imparted to the farmers in the nex:t two weeks will be discussed and
demonstrated. Subject Matter Specialists will spend about one third of their
time traLning, another third on research activities including contact with
research staff and institutions, and the remainder in the districts, assisting
extension agents, visiting farmers' field and demonstration plots, and
generally keeping in touch with the overall farm situation.
36.       This focusing of extension effort on a few critical practices
relating to the major local crops, and on aspects where the probability of
quick results is greatest - such as increasing the plant density of rice and
reducing the density for maize, or controlling insect attack on cotton - will
ensure concentration of effort and improve the chances of holding the interest
and enthusiasm of both the farmers and the extension workers.
Staffing and Training
37.       To ensure that DAE has sufficient manpower at various levels, exten-
sion personnel in the 33 project provinces will be increased significantly.
Most importantly, a total of about 2,590 new extension agents and District EOs
will be recruited over the project period, improving the effective ratio of
district extension personnel to farm families within the project provinces from
approximately 1:4,400 to 1:1,000.   To provide the needed technica. training of
field staff, an additional 210 Subject Matter Specialists will be employed,
while organization of technical instruction sessions and training programs will
be carried out by training officers - three in each province. New staff will be
given permanent civil service positions and their salaries will be provided from
normal budgetary resources (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Candi-
dates with adequate vocational school and/or university training can be found in
the countryside at the proposed salaries, which are comparable to those of other
civil servants with similar backgrounds.



- 11 -
38.       On appointment, all staff assigned to the project will undergo a two-
to eight-week preservice orientation course. District EOs and extension agents
would undergo about two weeks of annual in-service training, in addition to
their fortnightly technical instruction sessions. Courses for extension agents
will stress the practical agricultural problems faced by farmers in the region
and technically simple solutions to those problems, while those for District EOs
will also include administrative problems and practices. Where possible,
trainees will participate in demonstrations to gain a full appreciation of the
work involved. Subject Matter Specialists will attend annual four- to six-week
courses in specialized agricultural disciplines, including entomology, agronomy,
water management, agricultural economics, farm management, and extension and
training methodology. They will also be sent to short university refresher
courses to ensure that their level of specialized expertise is maintained.
Monitoring
39.       The project includes the establishment of a monitoring and evalua-
tion program to gauge the results of the extension methodology employed (Section
3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The program will be carried out in accordance
with procedures to be agreed by the Bank by either the Policy and Planning
Division of the MOAC's Land Development Department or one of the universities.
The rate of adoption of new techniques and their effect on crop yields and farm
income will be determined from annual surveys to be carried out in project
provinces by survey teams consisting of a supervisor, a team leader, about nine
enumerators and a driver. Each team will conduct about 1,000 interviews per
annum. Data will be analyzed by computer and annual reports will be submitted
to DAE and the Bank. The continuous feedback provided by this monitoring will
ensure that project design remains responsive to the actual needs of the farmers
under the present project as well as under subsequent phases of the program.
Construction
40.       Three new Regional Training Centers will be constructed under the
project at the regional headquarters of Songkhla (Southern Region), Rayong
(Eastern Region), and Nakhon Pathom (Western Region). Each Center will
include living quarters and classroom facilities for 60 students, as well as
necessary furniture and equipment. Regional Training Centers for the North-
eastern, Northern and Central Regions will be provided during the next phase
of the Government's national extension program; existing facilities in these
regions, supplemented by the university system, are adequate to handle the
training needs within their provinces in the interim period.
41.       Twenty-nine Provincial Extension Centers and 285 District Exten-
sion Centers will be constructed, expanded or rehabilitated under the
project which, together with the four Provincial Extension Centers and 47
District Extension Centers being provided under the Northeast Thailand Rural
Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH), will ensure that each of the 33 project
provinces and each of the 332 districts in those provinces are served by
adequate extension facilities. Provision has been made for new facilities
in every province but it may be possible in a few cases to use existing
structures. The DAE will make a thorough review of existing facilities
prior to determining the actual works to be undertaken (Section 3.11 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Each Provincial Center will include office
accommodation for about 20 provincial extension staff, a meeting hall, and



- 12 -
storage facilities for training and demonstration material. District
Extension Centers will provide office space for about four district staff,
a meeting room, and storage space for extension field equipment. In
addition, in line with the Government's normal policy, 600 low-cost houses
will be constructed for extension agents in remote areas, where housing is
difficult to obtain.
Vehicles, Equipment and Materials
42.       Each of the field extension agents in the project provinces will be
provided with a small (100 cc) motorcycle to give them the mobility required
to meet their schedule of field visits. Extension agents will be given the
opportunity to purchase their own motorbikes and will be responsible for
maintaining them. Regional, provincial and district extension offices will
be provided with a total of about 760 vehicles, including about 600 light
pick-up trucks for areas reasonably well served by roads, about 110 four-wheel
drive vehicles for more remote areas, and 33 mini-buses. These vehicles will
be used for transporting personnel, materials, and experiment and demonstration
equipment for training purposes. Eight audio-visual units which are long
wheel-base, four-wheel drive vehicles specially outfitted for film presentation
in remote villages, and ten sedans for headquarters staff and consultants,
are also included in the project. Basic office furniture and training equip-
ment will be provided for the Regional Training Centers and the Provincial
and District Extension Centers to be constructed under the project, and for
other Centers in the project area where they are lacking.
Consultant Services
43.       To assist in project implementation, consultants will be provided
in four specialized areas: (a) agricultural extension, (b) civil engineering,
(c) training and (d) monitoring and evaluation. For support in agricul-
tural extension (240 man-months), an agricultural consulting firm will be
asked to provide a team leader to assist in overall project execution at DAE
headquarters and four additional experts to serve as advisers to Regional
EOs. For engineering services (508 man-months), a local engineering firm
will be engaged to assist the DAE in survey, design, contracting and super-
vision of civil works, except for the construction of extension agents'
houses which will be supervised directly by DAE field staff. The consultants
will also assist DAE in the tendering and procurement of vehicles and equip-
ment. DAE intends to engage the same engineering firm as that employed for
similar work under the Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project. For
short-term training purposes (20 man-months), individual experts will be
retained to give specialized training in specific crop husbandry problems.
Lastly, for project monitoring (15 man-months), a consultant will be employed
for three months a year throughout project implementation to help the Policy
and Planning Division prepare and test questionnaires and analyze and inter-
pret data. In addition to the above, US AID-financed consultants (see
paragraph 47) will assist DAE in preparing curricula and in developing
handbooks, manuals and films for use in training extension staff.



- 13 -
Fellowships and Overseas Training
44.       To improve the quality of extension staff, particularly the Subject
Matter Specialists, provincial and district EOs, an augmented fellowship and
training program will be provided. The Government currently awards 30
undergraduate scholarships annually to outstanding DAE staff. The project
will supplement this program with 50 two-year postgraduate fellowships,
including 40 to Thai universities and 10 abroad in institutions which offer
programs relevant to Thai needs. A further 100 short-term study tours to
Asian countries such as the Philippines, India and Taiwan would be provided
for outstanding extension workers to observe innovative and successful farm
practices and extension work.
Project Implementation
45.       Project implementation will be phased over a five-year period, with
construction and procurement activities and staff appointments concentrated
in the first four years. Improved extension methodology and training will be
built up gradually and be in full operation in all project provinces by the
fifth year. Procurement of vehicles, equipment, and furniture will be phased
with staff appointments and construction. New staff will be appointed and
trained in advance of commissioning new extension centers. To ensure that
adequate planning and coordination of the various elements required for
successful initiation of extension activities keep pace with the construction
program, DAE will prepare detailed annual implementation schedules to be
forwarded to the Bank for review before the end of each Thai fiscal year as
part of the normal progress reports.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $56.5 million with
a foreign exchange cost of $22 million, or 39%. Estimates for construction
are based on recent construction costs of similar works in the project provinces.
Engineering and supervision costs are estimated at about 8% of construction
costs. Cost estimates for vehicles, equipment and furniture are based on
recent price quotations. Incremental operating costs, including two years'
salaries for new staff positions and operating and maintenance costs of project
buildings and equipment are included. Salaries are based on those current in
the 1976 Thai fiscal year, including appropriate housing, transport and subsis-
tence allowances. Base prices are expressed at January 1977 levels. Because
of the large number and the wide geographical spread of centers and houses to
be built, and the different types of extension, training and experimental
equipment required for the various gricultural enterprises in the provinces,
physical contingencies of 20% are included for civil works, furniture and
equipment. Expected price increases due to inflation amount to about 20% of
total project costs and assume the following annual rates of inflation: for
salaries, 5% (1977-82); for equipment and services, 8% (1977-79) and 7% (1980-82);
and for civil works, 12% (1977-79) and 10% (1980-82).



- 14 -
47.       The proposed Bank loan of $28 million would cover 50% of total
project costs, including all foreign exchange costs ($22 million) and $6.0 mil-
lion of the local costs. Local currency financing is recommended in this
case in view of the need for a project of sufficient size to encompass the
major food and export crop producing areas, and the Government's special need
for assistance during the start-up period when substantial increases in budget-
ary allocations are required. In the first year alone, DAE's recurrent expen-
ditures will be increased by more than 50% over the previous year. The Govern-
ment will provide the remaining $28.5 million equivalent of project costs. In
addition, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has agreed
to make a loan of $3.0 million to finance the cost of expanding the staff training
activities of DAE, including necessary consultant services and materials. The
loan is expected to be signed shortly; the consultants are already in the field.
Procurement
48.       All civil works will be grouped into contract packages worth about
$250,000 or more, to permit efficient execution and supervision. Civil
works contracts for the three Regional Training Centers grouped where possible
with extension centers in the area (about $500,000 each) will be awarded
following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Contracts for construction of the 29 provincial extension
centers (less than $50,000 each), and 285 district extension centers (about
$9,000 each) and 600 houses (about $5,000 each) except when grouped with
one of the Regional Training Centers would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding because individual buildings are small and distant from
one another. These contracts will be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding following local advertising. There is adequate competition among
local contractors for works of this kind and size.
49.       Standard items to be purchased in volume, including about $5.7
million worth of vehicles and $1.5 million worth of equipment, will be grouped
in large contract packages (averaging about $300,000) and procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
15% preference margin or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, over
the c.i.f. price of competing imports would be extended to eligible local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Specialized items to be purchased in
small quantities, including such items as seeds, fertilizers, agro-chemicals,
darkroom equipment, drawing sets, kitchen and cafeteria equipment, and equipment
for field experiments, worth a total of about $1.0 million, and furniture worth
a total of about $0.8 million, will be purchased following local competitive
bidding procedures. To permit flexibility in procurement, items costing less
than $10,000 each, but not exceeding $250,000 in total, may be procured through
prudent shopping, including a minimum of three price quotations.
Disbursements
50.       For vehicles, equipment and materials, disbursements will be made
at the rate of 100% of the c.i.f. cost if directly imported, 100% of the ex-
factory price if manufactured locally, and 65% of total expenditures if



- 15 -
imported but procured locally. For consulting services, overseas training
and fellowships, disbursements will be at 100% of total cost. Disbursements
for civil works will be at 85% of expenditures, submitted by DAE after
certification by their consultants. It is expected that disbursements will
be completed by December 31, 1982.
Accounts and Audit
51.       DAE will maintain a central project account covering all project
expenditures both at headquarters and in the provinces, and auditors satis-
factory to the Bank will be employed to audit accounts annually. Audited
financial statements together with the auditor's comments will be sent to the
Bank within six months of the close of each financial year (Sections 4.03 and
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
52.       Nearly 2.8 million farm families, cultivating some 4.3 million ha
of rice (54% of Thailand's total), and about 2.4 million ha of other food,
oil, fiber and vegetable crops will benefit from the project. Present yields
of most crops are low and considerable increases can be achieved if farmers
are made aware of, and use, existing technology. Because of the nature of
the project, it is not possible to quantify precisely likely benefits, but a
rough calculation indicates it to be well justified. Even under the most
conservative assumptions (a) that only paddy yields are affected by the
project and (b) that increased production of paddy amounts to only some 30
kg/ha annually, the project yields an economic rate of return of 20%.
53.       Although it is difficult to evaluate precisely how the project
benefits will be distributed between the very poor and less poor farmers,
the former stand to gain greater relative benefits from the project. In
the past, extension services have been provided mainly on request and,
typically, it has been the better educated and more affluent farmers who
availed themselves of these services. As the project is designed to reach
all smallholders in the project provinces, no matter how remote from provin-
cial and district capitals, it is expected to help narrow the gap in produc-
tivity between the poorer smallholders and their more affluent neighbors.
54.       Thailand has long been a major exporter of rice to the food-deficit
regions of Asia, and increasing the productivity of Thai agriculture can be
expected to help alleviate the shortage of food grains in the developing
world.
55.       With a low investment and annual operating cost per farm family
($20 and $4, respectively), which could be easily justified even with only
a modest increase in yields, the viability of the project is ensured. The
risks associated with this project relate mainly to the rate and degree to
which extension recommendations are adopted by farmers; these variables will
come under continuous close scrutiny during project implementation as part of
the monitoring and evaluation program to permit project authorities to take
prompt remedial action.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Features of special interest include
those referred to in paragraphs 32, 37, 39, 41 and 51 of this report.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.



T:SlE 3   1AOR        *43WE              s   1 of , pagas
-                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~THAILAND                 FEFEPENCE COUNYRIES (1970)
TOTA4L      3104.                                        NOST RECENT
iGR IC.     1142.4                      1960       1910    ESTINRATE          PHILIFPINES    KORA, =P. or    3*1*1 
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       Ioo.O       220.0       350.0               230.0      270.0       2650.0
POPULATION AkNA VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (1410-19, H1L110;;            gB*A         30.3        142.3              36.9        31.4       SOA.3
POPULATION nENSITY
PER SQUARE 1(1.                        S2.0        71.0         82.0              123.0       3 1 9.0      282.0
PER SQ. i14. ASRICULTURAL LAkD        2614.0..                 263.0/6            279.0       1320.0      1575.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE 8IFTH RASE PER THO'LSAND         147.1        414.3      143.4A              144.2        35.0        17.5
CRUDE DEATH NATE PER THOUSAND          19.8         137         10.8               13.2         11.1j        7.1
14FANT RORTALITY RATE (/THOU)                      so0. 0       AA.0~              @0 .0         ..        13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCT AT BIRTH (IRS)         149.0        55.5        58.0               55.6         57.7        71.1i
GROSS REPROCUCTION RATE                   .          3.2         3.t                3.3         2.0          1.0
POPUJLATION GACWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                   3.0          3. 1        3.1                3.8          2.3         1.0
URBAN                                    5.2        -14.9        5.1                4.0          6.14        4
URBAN PCPULATION (1 OF TOTAL)             12.7        15.0        16.5                27.6       141.2        84.6
AGE STRUCYUPE (PBRCEhT)
3 TO 14 YEARS                         41.0        45.0           .                 45.6       42.1        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                          34.0        52.0          .                514         5 4. 6       69.9
65 YEARS AND 045F                        S.0 a       3.0          ..2,0                          3.3         ?.I
AGE OEPENUENCY RATIO                       0.9         0. 9                           a .0.9       .8a         0. 5
ECONOMI C OEPENDEHOCY RATIO                1.1 La.     1.1          .                  1.8         1.4         0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE.   THOU)            .        470.0      2060.0              S9N.0
USERS (I OIF RARRIED WOMEtN)              .         1. 0        26.6,                .          62.0
ER4PLOY 'GENT
rOYAL LABOR FCRC8 (TtOUSANb,)         137O0.4     167000      177000              12300. 0    10400.0     5 330 0.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGPIC.JLTURE II)           021         79.0        76.0               55.u /a      50.5/       11. 0
JNED4PLOYEO C1 OF LABOR FORCE)                                     r 7.0 /C           7.0          5.0    ~    1.2
INCOME UISTA1NUIION
I OF PRIVATE INCONF VECOD IY
HIGHEST   5? Of HCUSEHOLOS               .                        ..                            17.1        141.2
hIGH4EST 271 OF HOU3EHOLDS                .            ..                             .         1414.5      37. 6
LOWEST   211 0F HOUSEHOLDS                .                        ..                            7.1         8.8
LOWEST   401 CF G4CUSE4iOLCS              ..                       ..                           17.7        2 2. 3
CTSTRIBUTION 19F 1AN0 OWNERSHIP
I GONED BY TOP 130 OF OWNERS                                                                      MO.  .  . 2.
1 OWNED B 81 SALLiST 10? OWNERS             .           ...                                        2.0
HEALTH AND NUTITION
POPULAiTION I-ER PHYSICIAN             8600.0      7870.0       530                    z..     21..          8.
POPULATION P-EP NURSING PERSON              ..     650.'450.: 'C' 110.                                      240.0
POPULATION PER HOSPItAL BED            13Z00        $ 50.0       820.0      ~       850.0      1920.0         80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY CF -
CALORIES K? OF RFGUIREMCNTS3           95. 0      1 05. 0     115 is              100.0       1803. 0     1 06.0
PROTEI% (319R NS PER DAT)              4 7. 0       52. 0      56.0                45 0        65.0         16.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL 4A.0 PLLG.E           ..        D.L            .22.0                        19.0a       4 5.0
DEATH RATE W/HOU) AGES 1A                    .           ..                           -9.0           .         1.0a
EOUCAT ION
AOJUSTED ENROLLRANT RA110
PI1MARY SCHGOL                        136.0         e 2.0 L      30/a             l08.0l      1040         101.0
SECONDARy SCHO3L                         7.0  C     36 0L          *               4a.          10          9.
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDEDI                                                                       1a         9    
(FIRST AND SECOND L.EVEL)              12. 0        12. 0       12.0               10.0         1 2. 0      1 2. 0
VOCATIONAL ER9OLLRENT
(I CF SECINOAR01                        1 9.0       14.0 ZL     1 3. 0La,.           60oL       16. 0       2 0.0a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (II                     .         79.0        82.0                  .         87.0        99.0
hous ING
PERSONS PER VOO14 (OVER'AGE)                ..                      ..                             .           .
OCCUPIED DWrLLINGS WITHOUT2.                                                                                     0
PtPED WATR (13)    -                      ..                       .0.LA                       8.             .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                    e"        00          50
(I OF ALL DhILLOAG3)                      ...                   6 3.W/ALL           2 3 O&      so..
RURAL DWELL! HGS CONNOCTEO
TO ELECTRTcITY (3                         .                     I $l.Oaj&           0.04       30. 0
CONSUMPTI ON
RADIO RECEIPEPS CP!R THOU Pop)             6. 0       78.0a       76 .0               45 .0      1 26. 0     551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PEP YHuu POP)              2. 0        S.0a? 1. 0/a                    9.0         2.0        814.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YF PEP CAP)              23.0       124.0       194.0               235.0       307.0      3391.0
.4EWSPNINT (1(G/V9 PFR CAP)                0.I         0.0a        l.                  I.L   ~     J. 4       10. 9
SEE NOTES ANS OEFr!NIt IONS UN RtEVERSE



O e _ O t O g * C g U S g _ _ _ _ > _ A C * @ C  t e _ _ g ffi = _ w _ _ i z > ; _~~~~~~~~~8  k
-~~~ ~ ~ ~   ~~~~~        ~~~~~ *  ;  ,             "v]Q*-        O;X3O         *ge
,  >   * - = =- a  g; ,-3 s . . S  5 t; 10 c * Ci  r-  w  ~  ~ e ? a _   w e' O ^  > t c > 0>  W e  > _,  |  | > w ]  i  * 1; C  c
c     '    o 0 o X c o  @ r u = Q @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t  c c c v < c ' Z 3 '  _ o w X  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS
[' z lli z i i ti.~~~~~~~~~~La -                                                            3b
t zS    i'-  "  og F i  -wr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I
i 2  1 '-M;''1iCUS'i'- iF0iSf,'i'.:A't-X00Xt S U:                        Fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
EZONOMIC INDICATORS
G308  NATIONAL INIONtE IN 1975                           ANNUAL RATE OP GROWTH
(h, conotant prices)
USt mll.      %        1960-65     1965-70    1970-75
GRY at Market Prices            14,595     100.0        7.5         8.5        6.5
Groas Domestic Investment        3,912      26.8       14.4        13.5        5.1
Gross National Savings           3,293      22.6       11.8        11.3        5.7
Current Account Balance           -619      -4.2      -27.0        31.0        2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS            2,860      19.6        9.9         6.7        6.8
Imports of Goods, NFS            3,565      24.4       11.3        12.6       3.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
/I                        /2                         //
Value Adde&               Labor Force-           V.A. per Worker/1/
US S =In.         %        Million          %         US $              %
Agriculture       4,559          31.3        13.4           75.7      340               41
Industry          4,442          30.4         1.4            7.9    3,170             386
Services          5.588          38.3         2.9           16.4    1.930             235
Total/Average  14,589         100.0        17.7          100.0      820              100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE2
Consolidated Public Sector        Central Government
(USS mln.)    % of GDP)4        (US$ rIln)  7. of GDP/4
1975       1975 1973-75        1975      1975 1973-75
Current Receipts                         2,263       15.8   16.2        1,992      13.9   14.3
CurrentExpenditures and Transfers        1.812       12.7   12.1        1.840      12.9   12.2
Current Surplus                            451        3.1    4.1          152       1.0    2.1
Capital Expenditures                       730        5.1    5.1          376       2.6    2.9
External Assistance (net)                   68        0.5    0.5            3       ...    ..
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
(Billions of Baht outstanding end Period)
Money and Quasi Money                        46.2   53.7   66.6   81.9   98.3  113.4
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)      13.0   19.7   27.0   29.6   25.7   30.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector                27.8   30.8   34.6   49.4   66.6   80.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            33.9   37.1   40.4   37.8   36.6   38.8
GDP Deflator (1962 - 100)                   113.5  111.6  121.8  145.3  172.4  177.3
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP Deflator                               -0.6   -1.7    9.2   19.3   18.7    2.8
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)    53.5   51.2   37.4    9.5  -13.2   20.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector              21.5   10.7   12.2   42.9   34.9   21.4
RALANCE OF PAYMENTS                        1973   1974   1975 P976E                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
USs Million                                                   US$ Million    h
Exports of Goods, NFS                     2,0851 3,085  2.852  3,332                  Rice                         320       15.4
Imports of Goods, NFS                     2925   3.420  3AS57'3 938                  Rubber                        218      10.5
Resource Gap (deficit - -)                 _17    -334   -705   -66                   CGorn (Maize)                246      11.8
Interest payments (net)                       7     36     69. ) -27                 Tapioca products              183       8.8
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -28    -37    -64  )                     Tin (Metal)                   122       5.9
Workers' RemitAances                                                                  Sugar                         179      8.5
Net Transfers -                             4j     244     82     40                 Kenaf and jute                 42       2.0
Current Balance                              3     -90   -618  -:593                 All other commsodities        772       37.1
Direct Foreign Investment (net#              67    137     65     79                                 Total       2,080      100.0
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1975
Disbursements                             265    515    542    689                                                   UST  Million
Amortization                              262    265    351    367                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        615
Subtotal                                    3    25     191    322Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                            736
Capital Grants  a                                                                     Total outstanding & disbursed      1,351
Other Capital (ne,                          142     66    105    170                  T&
Other Items n.e.i.i-                        -51    119     62     64                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975
Increase in Reserves (+)                    113    482   -195     42                                                       %
Gross Reserves (end year)                 1.295  1,858  1,775                         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Gros Rseves(ed yar   1,951,88  ,77  _private  2.6
Net Reserves (end year)                   1,082  1,564  1,369  1,410                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt         12.8
Total public 6 private non-
Fuels and Related Materials                                                           guaranteed debt                     15.4
Imports                                   229    629    684    769                  gaate      et1.
of uht h:pptroleu   -                     175    519    578     650                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, JANUARY 31, 1977 (US $ Million)
1"01pot                                    18     15     11      10                                                    IBR0  IDA
of which:petroleim                         18     15     11      10                 Outstanding & DisbursedLd  e      302.5   I6
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                ~~Undisbursed                     390.5   21.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                      Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed     693.0 32.0
Through July 1973 us$ 1.00 - B 20.8, B 1.00 = US $ 0.48
Since July 1973    US$ 1.00 . B 20.0   B 1.00 - US $ 0.50
/1 At current market prices.                                        L7  Includes short-tem public and private capital and portfolio
2 Estisated.                                                            investment.
/3  Thai fiscal years ending on September 30.                       /8  Includes SDR allocations, profits from exchange realignments,
E Estimates for GDP during fiscal year t were derived by adding         and errors and omissions.
1/4 of GDP at calender year t-l to the 3/4 of GDP for year t.   /9  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
/5 Includes official and private transfers.                             services.
6 Equity capital only.                                            /10  Net of Bank of Thailand participation in IBRD loans.
la Ratimate.
... Less than 0.1 percent.



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                      Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower               Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-one loans fully disbursed                        335.4      -       -
702-TH      1970    Port Authority of      Ports         12.5      -     0.6
Thailand
790-TH      1971    Electricity Genera-    Power         27.0      -     0.7
rating Authority of
Thailand
822-TH      1972    Kingdom of Thailand    Education     15.4      -    11.6
864-TH      1972    Telephone Organiza-    Telecommuni-  37.0      -    14.8
tion of Thailand       cations
870-TH      1972    Kingdom of Thailand    National      28.6      -     9.1
Highways
369-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand    Education        -   19.5    16.5
379-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation       -    5.5      0.4
898-TH      1973    State Railway          Railways      15.0      -      1.0
461-TH      1974    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation       -    7.0      4.5
977-TH      1974    Electricity Genera-    Power         75.0      -    53.9
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH      1974    Industrial Finance     Industry      12.0      -      2.8
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-TH     1974    Metropolitan Water-    Water Supply  55.0      -    44.7
works Authority
1149-TH     1975    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation    95.0      -    93.3
1198T-TH    1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Rural Devel-
opment      21.0      -     21.0
1199T-TH    1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Livestock      5.0      -     5.0
1243-TH     1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Rubber
Replanting  50.0       -    50.0
1253-TH     1976    Telephone Organiza-    Telecommuni-
tion of Thailand         cations     26.0      -    26.0



ANNEX II
Page 2
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                       Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower               Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1271-TH La  1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Education      31.0     -     31.0
1327-TH /b  1976     Industrial Finance    Industry
Corporation of
-Thailand                             25.0     -     25.0
Total                                         865.9    32.0   411.9
of which has been repaid                    142.4       -
Total now outstanding                         723.5    32.0
Amount sold /c                   65.2
of which has been repaid       27.5          37.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                685.8    32.0
Total undisbursed                             390.5    21.4
/a Declared effective on February 9, 1977.
/b Declared effective on March 14, 1977.
/c Of which $41 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Year         Company           Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products      0.30      -     0.30
Aggregate Ltd.
1964   Industrial Finance      Industrial Finance        -   0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1969   Siam Cement Group       Cement and Construc-
tion Materials        18.33   3.75    22.08
1971   Industrial Finance                                    0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1975   Siam Cement Group        Cement and
Construction          10.00      -    10.00
Materials
Total gross commitments                       28.63   4.13    32.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       17.34   2.09    19.43
Net held by the Corporation                   11.29   2.04    13.33



ANNEX II
Page 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(as of January 31, 1977)
Loan No. 702 Third Bangkok Port Project; $12.5 Million Loan of
August 6. 1970; Effective Date: November 6, 1970;
Closing Date: original, July 31, 1974; current, December 31,
1976
The project is substantially completed and a completion report is
being prepared. The estimated total project cost is $29 million compared
with the appraisal estimate of $21 million. Cost overruns have arisen out
of changes in foreign exchange rates, and the Government's decision to com-
pensate contractors working on fixed-price contracts, for overall increases
in construction costs after June 1974. The Port Authority's financial
situation is sound.
Loan No. 790    South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project; $27 Million Loan
of November 11, 1971; Effective Date: January 27, 1972;
Closing Date: November 30, 1976
Loan was fully disbursed on February 16, 1977.
Loan No. 822   Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Due to initial delays, previously reported, project completion is
likely to be delayed about one year. Construction began in March 1976, civil
works are expected to be completed by mid-1978. About half of the equipment
contracts have been awarded. Implementation of the technical assistance
program is well underway. Project costs are expected to exceed the appraisal
estimate by about $8 million due to cost overruns for civil works. The
Government has made budgetary provisions to meet the cost overruns. dis-
bursements, currently $3.8 million, are expected to reach $7.5 million by the
end of FY77.
LI These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 864 Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is about two years behind schedule because of initial
delays in procurement. Procurement action on all Bank-financed items is now
substantially complete and about $36.1 million of the loan amount has been
committed. The balance of $0.9 million will be committed in early 1977.
Over 50% of the local telephone network expansion under the project is
complete and the balance will be completed by March 1978, 18 months behind
schedule. However, because of delays in procurement of the microwave systems
under a bilateral loan, the long-distance network expansion under the project
will be completed only in December 1978, two years behind schedule. About
$35 million is expected to be disbursed from the loan by the current Closing
Date; the Government intends to approach the Bank for an extension.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts of
which four have been completed. Work on the remaining five contracts was
interrupted because the rapid increases in cost led to financial problems for
the contractors since, despite the Bank's recommendation, the contracts pro-
vided only for costs escalation on petroleum products while costs of materials,
labor, equipment, and spare parts also escalated rapidly. One contractor
resumed work after renegotiating the contract prices with the Government. The
other four contracts were terminated by agreement between the Government and
the contractors; new bids were obtained for completing the works, contracts
were awarded and work has been resumed. Because of higher prices in the bids
for completing unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be
around $75 million, or about 28 percent above the appraisal estimate, with
Government financing the overruns. In spite of these difficulties the project
is likely to be completed no more than one year beyond the original schedule.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation-remains about 12 months behind schedule, but
past problems concerning weak management, overcommitment of the staff,
lengthy and cumbersome approval procedures, lack of funds, and late recruit-
ment of technical assistance have largely been overcome. The project manage-
ment and procurement procedures have been strengthened considerably through
steps initiated as part of the Fourth Education Project (Loan 1271-TH).
Adequate provisions have been made to meet the expected cost overruns and
noticeable progress was achieved in civil works, procurement and technical
assistance. About 90% of the total civil works contracts and 60% of the
total furniture and equipment contracts have been signed. Technical assis-
tance is keeping pace with physical facilities. Project costs are now
estimated at $60 million, 50% above the appraisal estimate. Actual
disbursements reflect delayed implementation; they amount to $3.0 million,
but are increasing at an accelerated rate.



ANINEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 379 Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is expected to be substantially completed by June 1977
as scheduled, with some minor works being held over to 1978. Until recently,
project construction and disbursements were in line with appraisal estimates.
In 1976, force account construction continued satisfactorily but a plan to
employ contractors for on-farm development was been deferred until the 1977
working season. A project extension service has been set up and is operating
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 898 Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
Parts of the project are behind schedule by about 18 months due to
slow procurement. However, apart from rails needed for track renewal (now
being financed by the Government), all material has been received. The
remaining item financed by the loan, technical assistance, should soon
commence, under a contract now being negotiated with consultants. The growth
in passenger traffic slowed in 1975/76, due to passenger fares being increased
in November 1975. Freight traffic has commenced to grow again (6% in 1975/76)
and further increases are expected in following years, mainly due to increased
cement production. Despite the tariff increases of late 1975, the SRT failed
to earn any return in 1975/76, (against the prescribed 2% rate of return),
but, with the increased traffic, it expects to earn 0.8% in the current year,
together with a debt service coverage of 1.4 times (against 0.4 times in
1975/76).
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement ProJect; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7. 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project has fallen behind schedule through delays in appointing
consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment for construction of
tertiary canals. This is likely to postpone completion of the project by
about one year. Decisions on the award of equipment contracts have now been
made, and the equipment was delivered in time for the 1977 construction
season. Progress in rehabilitation of main canal systems has been satis-
factory although somewhat behind schedule. The estimated project cost is
$16.7 million, or about 32% over the appraisal estimate. In part, the
increased cost is due to price inflation being higher than foreseen at
appraisal. Also, detailed mapping has shown more deficiencies in the
existing irrigation facilities than were apparent at appraisal.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 977 Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the project is slightly ahead of schedule. Based
on the recent sector review, it appears that the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand's (EGAT) financial position may become difficult, unless
tariffs are raised. This and other sector issues were reviewed with the
Government in October 1976. The Cabinet is expected to consider tariff
increases within the next several months.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory; as of January 31, 1977 total disbursements amounted to
$9.2 million. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's operations and
financial condition have continued to be satisfactory.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Owing to considerable delays in contract awards, some of which have
been retendered, the project completion may be delayed by about 12 months
beyond the original schedule, i.e. until mid-1979. Consequently, disburse-
ments are lagging behind the earlier estimates but no change in the Closing
Date seems necessary at this time. Financial performance of MWWA continues
to be less than satisfactory. Only about half the water produced is billed
to the consumers. The Borrower has asked its consultants to evaluate its
Leakage Control Program and is taking steps to improve its billing and
collection of revenue. Proposals for increase in tariffs are also receiving
Government's consideration.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in engaging consultants, now resolved, the start of
construction of the major works has been delayed by about a year. However,
the on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, some urgently needed canal and
drainage works have been constructed, and an effective extension service has
been established. The consultants are now concentrating on the detailed
engineering and preparation of tender documents; bids for the first main
contract, covering the diversion dam and main canals, will be opened in April
1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Preliminary project activities are proceeding satisfactorily.
Consultants for the rural roads component have been engaged; procurement of
equipment for the rural electrification and water supply components is
proceeding; and a start has been made on a pilot project for land settlement.
Consultants have also been engaged to design the buildings required for the
extension component. Progress on the upland crop research component is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The project is off to a good start. The pasture development pro-
gram is well underway, and there is sufficient seed for distribution to
villages. Bids have been called for the supply of cattle, and vehicles,
and a contract has been awarded for the supply of frozen semen. Also early
implementation of the technical assistance component provided by the Govern-
ment of New Zealand is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Much useful preparatory work in research, training and expansion of
production capacity for planting material has been done and the project is
off to a good start. First year targets are expected to be reached.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is on schedule. Procurement action has been initiated
for all components and civil works has commenced.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Consultant
architects have been engaged, contracts for four diversified secondary
schools have been awarded, and bids have been invited for the first phase of
equipment. A contract has been negotiated for the training of school adminis-
trators at the University of Alberta.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
THAILAND - NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:                   Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Amount:                        $28.0 million
Terms:                         20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with
interest at 8-1/2% per annum.
Project Description:           The first phase of a national program to
strengthen agricultural extension throughout
the country by providing, in 33 of the 71
provinces, a streamlined extension organiza-
tion; additional, well-trained extension
personnel; improved extension methodology;
and continuous monitoring and evaluation.
The project includes construction of 3
regional centers, 29 provincial and 285
district extension centers and 600 houses;
procurement of vehicles, equipment and
materials, consultant services, fellowships,
and overseas training tours.
Estimated Cost:/1              ----------$ million-     ----       % of
Local       Foreign      Total      Total
Civil works                   5.4           3.6        9.0          16
Vehicles & equipment          0.9           8.1        9.0          16
Consultant services           0.9           1.6        2.5           4
Fellowships & training        0.2           0.4        0.6           1
Incremental operation        19.1           2.4       21.5          38
Contingencies:
Physical                    1.1           1.4        2.5          5
Price                       6.9           4.5       11.4         20
34.5          22.0       56.5         100
/1 Excluding the cost of staff training to be financed by a USAID loan of
$3.0 million.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
Financing Plan:/1             -----      $ million----------      % of
Local      Foreign      Total       Total
Government                   28.5          -         28.5         50
Bank                          6.0         22.0       28.0         50
34.5         22.0       56.5         100
Estimated Disbursements          IBRD          --------$'000---------
from Bank Loan:              Fiscal Year       Annual      Cumulative
1978          3,800          3,800
1979          6,400         10,200
1980          6,800         17,000
1981          7,000         24,000
1982          3,500         27,500
1983            500          28,000
Procurement Arrangements:      Contracts for civil works would be grouped
when practicable to form bid packages of $250,000
or more each. Contracts for construction of
the three regional training centers, grouped
where possible with provincial and district
extension centers, would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Guidelines, while those for most
extension centers and houses would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with Government procurement
practices acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for
vehicles, equipment, and materials would be
grouped where practicable to form bid packages of
about $300,000 each, and would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. In the evalua-
tion of bids, eligible domestic manufacturers
would be accorded a preferential margin of 15% of
the c.i.f. price of competing imports or, if
lower, the rate of applicable customs duties.
About $1,000,000 worth of specialized equipment
items and $800,000 worth of furniture would be
purchased on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, while miscellaneous items of
vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials not
exceeding $10,000 up to a total of $250,000 could
be purchased off-the-shelf on the basis of at
least three price quotations.
/1 Excluding the cost of staff training to be financed by a USAID loan of
$3.0 million.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Consultants and
Technical Assistance: /1       A total of 508 man-months of local consultant
services and 275 man-months of foreign con-
sultant services would be provided to help
implement the project as follows: agricultural
extension (240 man-months); short-term training
(20 man-months); design, procurement and con-
struction supervision (508 man-months); and
program monitoring and evaluation (15 man-months).
About 100 man-years of fellowships (80 local
and 20 abroad) and 200 man-months of short-term
study tours in Asian countries would be provided
to improve the quality of extension staff. The
cost of consultant services is estimated at
$6,000 per man-month for expatriate consultants,
and about $1,600 per man-month for local
consultants. The cost of fellowships in Thai
universities is estimated at $150 per man-month,
while study tours and fellowships abroad are
estimated at $1,000 per man-month.
Economic
Rate of Return:                Because of the nature of the project, it is not
possible to quantify likely benefits in detail;
however, a conservative calculation assuming
that benefits are limited to an increase in
paddy of only 30 kg per hectare yields an
economic rate of return of 20%, indicating that
the project is well justified.
Appraisal Report:              1256a-TH, dated March 10, 1977.
/1 In addition, USAID will provide 34 man-months of consultant services for
curriculum and materials development and training.



ANNEX IV
THAILAND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The Project was prepared in about 2-1/2 years (August 1973-
December 1975).
(b) The Project was prepared by the Government with the assistance
of the Regional Mission and a consultant.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: August 1973.
(d) Departure Appraisal Mission: November 1975.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: February 1977.
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness: June 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action - None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed to:
(a) establish in each project province as it is brought into the
project: (i) an Agricultural Extension Coordinating Committee to
coordinate the activities of the agricultural extension service
with those of related agencies; and (ii) a Technical Advisory Panel
to formulate and recommend a package of extension activities for
the following crop season and to recommend areas of research to
agricultural research institutions (para. 32);
(b) ensure that the Civil Service Commission authorizes new staff
positions as required for project implementation (para. 37);
(c) establish and maintain a program to monitor and evaluate the project
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 39);
(d) review existing facilities to determine whether existing structures
may be utilized as district or provincial extension centers (para. 41);
(e) maintain a central account covering all project expenditures and
send audited statements of such account to the Bank within six
months of the close of each financial year (para. 51).






IOO.                             104-
I                        THAILAND
B U RMA                          NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
-20  X'~)  S  ChIO SgRO,                    JPROVINCES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
j - /  * *n   I                                C Rlong Pal _C H A O P HY A   IR R IG A T IO N   IM PR O V E M E N T   P R O JE C T IC R .  379T H )
5 Moe Hong                 .11  \    \    >   ; 9 NORTH EAST IRRIGATION P ROJECTS(CR 4R1THI
es S            5 \  I                          PHIITSANULOK IRRIGATION PROJECTILoen 114STHI
II                                 r R. ./ //,. 5OVTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(L.on 1198 TTH)
C   *-'r   (  Non             - -----  PROVINCIAL COUNDARIES
Q  |  Chi0ng MO,     0 J   I  g       c     FEOIONALROUNDARIES
tsJ  t   rS   h/r   {   J  {4   A  O  S   -. -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2                        0~~~~
Lampong J/ 
Phroe~~~~~~~~~~N
/0~~~0'
\ Utt0) t  )
O. '.n \  C io  (  Lop Boel (   oNThan, ho  RkonoNkhom  2  I
\,X \:   I sS+'  C2w   '_<<   )  N.O6              s H o IN
bi Ii -   Prochin BuKi
CKom)    _e,g Phetl Phroitoho.bn~ __//ilXiSEri  J
No,khIy-a iyahm oLkh
bun 0~~~~~~~ 
~~~~~PR    Bu)     OR |  a/u1  Raycc oengsl   i
~~~~~~Nko 8  7   3 r<   w an   ure  ,t z
> 0  % Pet Bri  ,) r-~t4  tCAMBfODIA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
-I2'             Kl           0 P\ainP  I Nokhon Pothom   Rc12
I-f..                             E s.  o ih uL  
Buria 4S Songkhan, 
E ~    ~~~~~       ~    ~~~~~ f  /JS6aTonBur;   n
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C\%%KO   chon   9  Ang  Thong B\          H
Ph3 SuroI <DIAMBODIA
8         <     sNrhkh~~~~~~~o P  1- NSo  P-Zothom> 
Phan  ~ ~  -)                                    B U R 2MANonhobur
? S~ T~rnonP3ot . Pothum  Dhan)
an  Phuk~~~~~~~e~~?~~                          8' ~. amu   Pr k'
<wR>S<;to8Phr                      Andomon .;j Ayutt5
.j ~ ~ ~ 9 n gTknkh                e   -(g
>  >  -7  >            :     10>%       S o u t h~~(7 
Gulf  o f Th a a n clp
0       100    200     300         5Yk         -;                   ,      ChnSe
KiIomRIprs R                       T  a\ 1I O '           SMA {LA Y  S I A _
I ~      Mie I       I_                                              ,0SINGAPORE ,< 
MIIRR         100      M A L A Y S ICA                I N24  N E S IN  A
INDIA~~~~~
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



