CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1393 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(National Agricultural Extension Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 17, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1977, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to contract from the United
States Agency for International Development, a loan in an amount
of three million dollars ($3,000,000) to assist in financing Part
E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the United States Agency for International
Development; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon terms and condi-
tions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DAE" means the Department of Agricultural Extension,
a department of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Coopera-
tives; and
(b) "Project Provinces" means the Provinces of the Borrower
enumerated in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
eight million dollars ($28,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
DAE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, agricultural, engineering, financial, train-
ing and extension practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, staff, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a
project organization acceptable to the Bank to be responsible for
the execution and operation of the Project.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall cause DAE to employ consultants
and specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, as
follows:
(i) a firm of consultants to provide the services of
five extension specialists;
(ii) a firm of consultants to design and supervise
civil works under Part C.1 of the Project;
(iii) consultants to assist in monitoring the Project
as referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
and


﻿- 6 -
(iv) consultants to assist in implementing the training
program included under Parts D and E of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that in carrying out
Part B of the Project, the required incremental staff positions
are authorized in accordance with the implementation schedule set
forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;


﻿(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes re-
lated to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause to be established and
maintained a program to monitor and evaluate the Project in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for the effective coordination of DAE extension activi-
ties with related activities of other agencies of the Borrower and,
in this connection, shall establish and maintain in each of the Proj-
ect Provinces as and when such Province is brought into the Project:
(a) a Provincial Agricultural Extension Coordinating Committee
to coordinate the activities of the provincial agricultural extension
service with those of other agriculture-related agencies; and


﻿-8-
(b) a Provincial Technical Advisory Panel to formulate and
recommend a package of extension activities for the following crop
season and to recommend areas of research to agricultural research
institutions.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall make motorcycles financed
under the Project available to DAE Extension Agents and other
eligible staff under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (i) before commencing civil
works under Part C.1 (b) of the Project, review existing extension
facilities to decide whether to utilize such facilities or construct
new ones, and (ii) furnish to the Bank the results of aforesaid re-
views.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if fo-., any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 10 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
barnk or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause DAE to operate and
maintain all equipment and facilities provided under the Project
in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank and shall pro-
vide promptly as needed the funds needed for that purpose.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DAE to maintain one account
covering all expenditures related to the Project incurred at both
DAE headquarters and Provincial levels.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.04. With regard to the Project account referred to
in Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
DAE to: (i) have said account and related financial statements for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of DAE and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 23, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is des-
ignated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok, Thailand
Cable address:               Telex:
MINANCE                      TH-2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s / Arun Panupong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               10,700,000          85%
(including con-
tractor mobili-
zation)
(2) Equipment, furni-         11,000,000
ture, vehicles
and materials
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) imported and                             65%
procured
locally
(c) manufactured                             100% (ex-factory)
locally
(3) Consultants, training,     3,800,000          100%
fellowships and study
tours
(4) Unallocated                2,500,000
TOTAL     28,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan-then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category


﻿- 17 -
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of. the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, as the first phase of a national program, is de-
signed to strengthen agricultural extension services in the Project
Provinces, and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Organizational Program
Implementation of a program to strengthen the head-
quarters organization of DAE and establish an improved
organizational structure for the provision of agricultural
extension services from the National level through the
Regional and Provincial to the District level.
Part B:   Staffing Program
Implementation of a staffing program to increase the
number of trained agricultural extension staff in the
Project Provinces to about 4,300 including about 3,100 DAE
Extension Agents and about 270 Subject Matter Specialists.
Part C:   Buildings and Equipment
1.   (a) Construction of three regional training centers at
Songkhla, Rayong and Nakhon Pathom;


﻿- 19 -
(b) Construction, rehabilitation or expansion of about
30 provincial extension centers in the Project Prov-
inces, and 285 district extension centers; and.
(c) Construction of about 600 housing units for DAE Ex-
tension Agents.
2.   (a) Provision of equipment and furniture for the build-
ings referred to in Parts C.1 (a) and (b) hereinabove;
(b) Provision of vehicles for transporting staff and
materials, and about eight audio-visual units.
Part D:   Extension Methodology
Introduction and implementation of & sound extension
methodology in the Project Provinces, with particular emphasis
on continuous training of extension workers and regular farm
visits.
Part E:   Training and Fellowships
Implementation of a training program for extension
workers including overseas fellowships and study tours.
*              *              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Schedule for Incremental
Staff under Part B of the Project
Designation        FY 1977*   FY 1978    FY 1979    FY 1980    Total
Head Office Staff     10          6          5          5       26
Deputy Regional
Extension Officers   2          4          4          2       12
Deputy Provincial
Extension Officers   4          4          4          4       16
Provincial Training
Officers             4         11         10          8       33
Subject Matter
Specialists         25         70         65         50      210
Assistant Provincial
Training Officers    8         22         20         16       66
District Extension
Officers            11         30         27         22       90
Extension Agents     300        825        750        625    2,500
Support Staff        150        4oo        350        300    1,200
TOTAL           514      1,372      1,235      1,032    4,153
*    FY means the Borrower's fiscal year.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1982
through   September 1, 1996                  905,000
On March 1, 1997                                  850,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before mturity                   6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.50%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 4 and 5 hereof, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as des-
cribed in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For bidding purposes, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped to the extent practicable to form appropriate bid packages
each estimated to cost the equivalent of about $500,000.
3.   For bidding purposes, contracts for vehicles, equipment,
furniture and material shall be grouped to the extent practicable
to form appropriate bid packages each estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of about $300,000.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above:
(a) Contracts for civil works under Parts C.1 (b) and (c) of
the Project may: (i) be grouped to the extent practicable to form
appropriate bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more, and (ii) be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding after local Edvertising and in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 24
(b) Certain miscellaneous items including seeds, fertilizers,
agro-chemicals, darkroom equipment, drawing sets, cafeteria equip-
ment and field-experiment and home-economics equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of about $1,000,000, and furniture estimated to
cost the equivalent of about $800,000, may be purchased on the basis
of competitive bidding after local advertising and in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 above,
contracts for vehicles, equipment, furniture and material with unit
prices not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 each may be purchased
on the basis of prudent shopping after solicitation of at least three
Price quotations, provided that the aggregate expenditure of items so
purchased shall not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (Thailand port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Thailand may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Thailand
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Thailand equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 26 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and all contracts for
vehicles, equipment, furniture and material estimated to cost the
equivalent of $75,000 or more:


﻿- 27 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 28 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furniEh to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Provinces
North Eastern Region
1.   Ubon Ratchathani
2.   Yasothon
3.   Roi-Et
4.   Kalasin
5.   Khon Kaen
6.   Sisaket
7.   Buriram
8.   Chaiyaphum
9.   Nakhon Ratchasima
Northern Region
10. Nakhon Savan
11. Uthai Thani
12. Phitsanulok
13. Phichit
14. Lampang
15. Sukhothai
16. Chiang Mai
Central Region
17. Sara Buri
18. Lop Buri
19. Sing Buri
20. Chainat
21. Ang Thong
Western Region
22. Suphan Buri
23. Nakhon Pathom
24. Ratchaburi
25. Prachuab Khiri Khan


﻿- 30 -
Eastern Region
26. Prachin Buri
27. Chacheongsao
28. Chon Buri
Southern Region
29.  Surat Thani
30. Phatthalung
31. Songkhla
32. Nakhon Si Thammarat
33. Pattani
Any change in the Project Provinces is subject to further
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.


