                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                          <Date>
                                                                             Report No.: AB7057
                                              (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


 Operation Name                     Malawi - Rapid Response Development Policy Grant
 Region                             AFRICA
 Country                            Malawi
 Sector                             Public administration- Other social services (30%);Central
                                    government administration (25%);General agriculture,
                                    fishing and forestry sector (25%);General energy sector
                                    (20%)
 Operation ID                       P126155
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        THE GOVENMENT OF MALAWI
 Implementing Agency                HE MINISTRY OF FINANCE
 Date PID Prepared                  May 15, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal        May 31, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board            June 28, 2012
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 Other Decision {Optional}          Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                    other decisions are added

I.     Country and Sector Background

1.      Until 2010, Malawi experienced solid growth averaging around 7 percent (2006-
2010) largely through prudent macroeconomic policies and a supportive donor
environment. This performance was built on strong stabilization policies since 2004, and the
debt relief from the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, which helped improve
public expenditure management and created the fiscal space needed to generate the momentum
for growth. Malawi's rapid growth was highly import-intensive making the economy especially
susceptible to shocks. Economic imbalances started to build in late 2008 in the context of the
global crisis, and were intensified during the run-up to the 2009 Presidential and Parliamentary
elections. This conflagration of events led to fiscal and external imbalances that required
important adjustment to contain aggregate demand. Restoring economic balances would have
required strong coordination between fiscal adjustment and monetary policy and the adoption of
a more flexible exchange rate regime that could help contain import demand.

2.      The inadequate policy response led to severe foreign exchange shortages in 2011,
which started to choke the economy. The excess demand for foreign exchange led to
increasing shortages of some critical goods, most notably, fuel. Faced with rapidly falling
international reserves, the authorities devalued the kwacha by 10 percent in August 2011 and
concurrently tightened restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, including requiring foreign
exchange bureaus to buy and sell foreign exchange within a small band around the official
exchange rate. The macroeconomic performance has been adversely affected by the concurrence
of significantly reduced donor inflows in 2011/12, on account of the interruption in the country’s
Extended Credit Facility-supported program as well as governance concerns, and exceptionally
poor tobacco market in 2011, which contributed to the severe shortages of foreign exchange and
resultant shortages of some critical imports, most notably, raw materials, fuel, drugs etc.

3. Sharp rises in consumer prices contributed to the rise in the cost of living and erosion
of consumer purchasing power. In early 2012, it was estimated that 2011 real GDP had slowed
to about 4.3 percent, and more importantly, barring significant reforms the outlook for 2012 and
beyond was extremely bleak. If no timely policy actions were undertaken in 2012 to restore
macroeconomic stability, economic would have gradually come almost to a halt and the country
would have entered into a full blown (policy induced) recession in 2013, with collapse in imports
and exports. Real GDP growth would have slowed down further to near zero growth in 2012-
2014. Fiscal deficit would have also reached unsustainable levels of above 6 percent of GDP
between 2012 and 2014 with stronger pressures on the budget on the back of shrinking revenue
base and further reductions in aid inflows. The rise in cost of living and rise in food prices would
have triggered social unrest and possible violence, in a difficult political environment that
prevailed under the previous administration.

4.      The new government, led by President Joyce Banda, has taken decisive policy
measures to arrest the slowdown in the economy and is already implementing a
comprehensive package of economic reforms. These reforms aim to address the current
external imbalances with plans to cushion the vulnerable poor against the impact through social
protection programs, and facilitate a growth rebound in the short term. In this regard, some
decisive and credible measures have been taken by the authorities to strengthen economic
governance, while at the same time signaling to development partners and the private sector of
government’s commitment to create a conducive environment for a return to positive growth.
These include the unification of the exchange rate, liberalization of the foreign exchange market-
allowing US dollars earned at the tobacco auction floors to be transferred directly to seller’s
commercial banks, tightening of the monetary and fiscal policies, and adopt the automatic
adjustment mechanism for retail prices of petroleum products to reflect import parity prices at
the market determined exchange rate. These measures under the government’s Economic
Recovery Plan are in line with Bank’s recommendations under the comprehensive package, and
advice from IMF teams. Negotiations on a new arrangement under the Extended Credit Facility
are at advance stage and expected to be concluded on June 6, 2012.


II.        Operation Objectives



5.      The objective of the Rapid Response Development Policy Grant is to support the
authorities’ efforts to restore macro-balance and the functioning of a market based economy to
ensure growth rebound in the medium-term, and protect the poor and most vulnerable groups in
the short-term while improving transparency of social safety net systems. In addition to a
satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal framework, the main policy areas supported focus on
improving the prioritization of social expenditure in the national budget, strengthening the
resilience of the most vulnerable groups to shocks, improving the functioning of the petroleum
and export crop markets and improve economic management of the farm input subsidy program.
Within this framework, the proposed RRDPG seeks to achieve three main objectives. Firstly, to
support growth rebound while mitigating impact on the most vulnerable groups and pushing
forward the medium term growth agenda of competitiveness and economic diversification.
Secondly, to build on Government commitment to undertake bold reforms to regain control over
economic management and the good will expressed by other development partners to support the
country get back on a sustainable growth path. Lastly, to use this Bank’s instrument to provide
the Government with the much needed resources to boost the country’s fiscal position to support
broad based pro-poor expenditure.

6.       The RRDPG will support the proposed reform areas below aimed at ensuring that
the 2012/13 national budget is consistent with regaining macro balance and growth
rebound, and mitigation measures are put in place to protect the most vulnerable groups,
proper functioning of the fuel and export crop markets and that public resources are used for the
intended purpose and the accountability frameworks work. The reform areas presented below
reflect the urgency nature of support proposed:


      Prior Action 1: Adoption by Cabinet of the 2012/2013 national budget that is
       consistent with fiscal sustainability and prioritization of social expenditure. The
       objective of this reform is to restore macroeconomic stability and competitiveness
       through the national budget. The budget includes a number of expenditure cuts, needed to
       restore economic balances and contain expectations on the potential instability of
       exchange rate. It is expected that this action will contribute towards regaining fiscal
       sustainability.
      Prior Action 2: Adoption of fuel pricing policy by Cabinet that is fully reflective of fuel
       import parity prices.
      Prior Action 3: Approval by Cabinet of an automatic price adjustment of petroleum
       import prices. The objective of prior action 2 and 3 is to establish fuel pricing policy that
       is fully reflective of import parity prices needed to trigger a positive response from the
       private sector and the normalization of fuel imports and supplies. This reform will allow
       importers to fully recover the kwacha amounts of their imports and also establish
       mechanisms for regular price adjustment based on movements in international petroleum
       prices and exchange rate (Malawi Kwacha to United States Dollars) fluctuations of +/-5
       percent. It is expected that this will reduce distortions in the fuel market and ensure
       regular fuel supplies to support private sector led growth.
      Prior Action 4: Directive from Reserve Bank allowing exporters, including tobacco
       farmers to change their US dollar equivalent earnings at the auction floors at
       prevailing market determined exchange rate. The objective is to improve the
       functioning of the tobacco market and enhance the benefits accrued to farmers. This
       action will ensure that farmers receive higher earnings in Malawi Kwacha terms from
       currency devaluation that can partially help them recover a share of the welfare loss. It is
       expected that the smallholder farmers’ earnings pegged to the US dollars and exchanged
       at market determined exchange rate will increase in kwacha terms.
          Prior Action 5: Inclusion of a scaled-up1 labour intensive public works (LIPW)
           program in the 2012/13 national budget adopted by Cabinet. The objective of this
           reform is to strengthen mitigating measures to cushion the most vulnerable groups and
           their resilience to shocks. The proposed RRDPG has supported the process of ensuring
           that the 2012/13 budget is also consistent with the social expenditure prioritization,
           especially the increase in budgetary allocations for the expanded labour intensive public
           works and the farm input subsidy program. The budgetary allocations for logistics have
           also been adjusted upwards to reflect the increase in coverage and fuel price adjustments.
           The increase in budgetary allocations for logistics will ensure timely delivery of fertilizer
           to smallholders and in turn contribute toward increased food production. This action is
           expected to contribute towards the increase incomes and food security of poor households
           who participate in the creation or rehabilitation of community assets.
          Prior Action 6: Inclusion of a scaled up Farm Input Subsidy Program (FISP) in the
           2012/13 national budget adopted by Cabinet. The objective of this reform is to
           strengthen social protection interventions and the resilience of the most vulnerable groups
           to shocks. Under FISP, the number of beneficiaries for 2012/13 will increase from 1.4
           million to 1.5 million family-farm beneficiaries. The expanded program will ensure that
           more people who have been affected by the economic reforms do not lose their livelihood
           and are not pushed deeper into poverty. This action is expected to contribute towards the
           increase in coverage of the most vulnerable groups country-wide to be cushioned from
           the effects of economic shocks such as crop failures.
          Prior Action 7: Institutionalization of the policy to undertake procurement audits of
           FISP as recommended in the Joint Government/World Bank Fertilizer Procurement
           Review Report on the 2010/11 Farm Input Subsidy Program. The objective is to
           improve economic management of FISP and the policy action will ensure efficiency in
           the expanded FISP program, especially in use of budgetary resources and transparency in
           the contract award process. This reform is operationalizing the Government’s
           commitment to mainstream procurement review process into annual audits, which would
           be conducted by the National Audit Office so as to strengthen ownership and
           transparency. It is expected that this action will contribute to improved value for money
           and transparency in public procurement process.

III.           Rationale for Bank Involvement

7.     The country is undertaking measures to ensure a smooth fiscal adjustment and a
quick return to sound macroeconomic policies while mitigating the negative impact of the
past economic policies in the short-run. For this to take place, the country urgently needs
external financing to support the tight fiscal consolidation process, which is anchored on zero
domestic borrowing, and to provide for the fiscal space needed to expand support to social safety
net programs as well as growth enhancing investments. The IMF estimates the external financing
needs in the short term of about US$200 million. Given the thinness of the foreign exchange
market in Malawi and the fact that the government is the main supplier of foreign exchange, the
market expects the government to continue supply foreign exchange until the market stabilizes
and thus the need for a strong and upfront balance of payment support. In this regard, grants and
concessional financing are critical.

1
    Expanded program.
IV.        Tentative financing

Source:                                                                           ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                   0
International Development Association (IDA)                                         50
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                   Total

      V.   Tranches (if applicable)

                                                                                  ($m.)
First Tranche
Second Tranche
Etc.
Total


VI.        Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

8.      The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (i) its ability to provide significant
resources to contribute towards narrowing the external financing gap, and (ii) the Bank’s
technical contribution into the government’s economic recovery plan aimed at restoring
macroeconomic stability while protecting the most vulnerable groups in the short term.
Specifically, the Bank has a solid basis for engagement with the government as its economic
recovery plan has been informed by the presentation by the Bank of the comprehensive reform
package for Growth, Competitiveness and Poverty Reduction, which focused on regaining macro
balance while mitigating impact on the most vulnerable groups, growth rebound – including
where growth and jobs would come from, and medium term agenda for productivity and
diversification. Development Partners, including IDA, AfDB, DfID, are in the process of
developing their interventions to support the process of stabilizing the economy. Moreover, the
authorities have agreed with the IMF on a new ECF-supported program for Malawi, which will
focus also support reforms to restore macroeconomic stability, competitiveness and protecting
pro-poor expenditure.

9.     The Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be responsible for overall implementation of RRDPG as
well as for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries and
agencies. The MoF has experience in coordinating and implementing DPO programs as evidenced
by the implementation of the PRSC I-III. The institutional arrangements for the preparation and
execution of the RRDPG fall within the framework of the MGDS II. The general M&E system has
improved in recent years although weaknesses still remain. Monitoring and Evaluation of the
MGDS II is coordinated by the M&E Division in the Ministry of Economic Development and
Planning. An M&E master plan and road map to its implementation were approved in 2011.
Implementation of the road map is being supported by a joint program of support with basket
funding from the European Commission, DFID, and UNDP. Under the program, M&E officers
have been recruited, trained and deployed in all district councils of the country.

VII.       Risks and Risk Mitigation

10.     Shortfalls in donor support. This could have a deterring impact on economic growth, as
could weaken the balance of payment situation and widen the external financing gap and could
force the authorities to borrow domestically, which is not in line with the fiscal adjustment path
currently being pursued. Given the low level of official reserves and huge import needs, this
would put enormous pressure on what already is a tough fiscal adjustment process and could
undermine fiscal sustainability and/or jeopardize necessary social and capital expenditure. These
risks are mitigated by a number of factors: decision to mend relations with development partners
and intensions to address governance and human rights concerns; strong commitment to fiscal
adjustment program and a flexible exchange rate policy; timely budget support, backed by
analytical support; and agreement on the new ECF supported program for Malawi.

11.    Political risk. The current Government, in power since early April 2012, has embarked
on bold reforms to restore macroeconomic stability and is committed to maintain prudent
macroeconomic policies. However, risk might arise from tensions between political pressures to
expand Government programs and the need to maintain a prudent fiscal stance with a view to
keeping inflation pressures at bay as well as preserving debt sustainability. This is mitigated by
Government efforts to build support for policy reforms supported by this operation.

12.     Social tensions. The consequences of some of the economic policies of the previous
administration and adjustments that are taking place in the economy could lead to further upward
pressure in consumer prices and erosion of consumer purchasing power and could raise social
tensions. In addition, increases in fuel prices could result in second round effects on prices of
other products leading to acute public criticism. Social tensions could affect investor and
consumer confidence, which would constrain further private investment. The Government’s
efforts on enhancing social inclusion, through education, health and social protection programs is
expected to offset potential social tension. There will be need for government to engage all key
stakeholders to rally support for reforms and help stakeholders understand their consequences
and manage expectations.

13.      Implementation capacity risks. The government’s capacity to massively scale up social
safety net programs could be overstretched and this could delay the implementation of the
programs supported by this operation and could lead to low utilization of available resources and
insufficient coverage of beneficiaries. Given the fact that DPs are financing a large part of the
social protection interventions and the fact that programs being scaled up have existing
institutional structures and skilled personnel, especially for labour intensive public works and
FISP implemented, this risk will be minimized.
VIII.      Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

14.     The RRDPG has been designed to mitigate the impact of the economic downturn on
the poor and to improve social sector resilience and targeting over the medium term. First,
the overall macroeconomic and fiscal framework has included significant reallocation of
expenditures, which has created fiscal space for increased social protection, education,
agriculture and health expenditures. Second, reforms to scale up and strengthen the social safety
net while maintaining targeting efficiency have had the greatest effect in supporting incomes of
the poor over the course of the economic downturn. Third, in the medium term, reforms to
support growth rebound are expected to be the driving force behind improved living standards.

15.     The RRDPG builds on the recent analysis carried out by the Bank on the impact of
price changes between 2007 and 2011, which highlighted the fact that prices have been on a
rise, with urban areas standing out as the most affected relative to rural areas. Evidence
shows that the poor are already being affected by policies of the previous regime as exhibited in
the rising cost of living since 2007. With food dominating the household expenditures of the
rural and urban poor in Malawi; the social impact will be acute in these constituencies. This is
particularly due to high food price inflation that is notably strong in urban areas since 2005.
Housing/utilities have had relatively higher rates of increase in rural areas, with a tendency
towards some convergence in recent years. Increases in transport prices have been quite similar
although urban transport costs have been steeply rising since 2008 likely due to increases in
world fuel prices.

16.     Welfare and Distributional impact assessment of kwacha devaluation conducted
indicates that existing social protection programs play an important role in preventing
people from falling into poverty, in particular into extreme poverty. Simulations show that
in the counterfactual absence of any social protection programs, moderate poverty would be 65
percent higher than the actual figures reported in 2010. Moreover, extreme poverty would be
more than four times higher. The study pointed to social programs (e.g. cash transfers) that could
be scaled up should government take up the option of rolling out these reforms immediately to
take advantage of the positive social gains of unification at the onset of the tobacco sales season.
With approximately 420,000 house-holds in Malawi growing and selling tobacco a devaluation
of the currency would cushion the impact on incomes of these households.


        Environment Aspects

17.     The policy actions supported by this DPO series are not likely to cause significant
effects on the environment, forests, and other natural resources of Malawi. The one policy
area that required careful screening was FISP and LIPW program. The reforms to social
expenditure supported by the DPO program focus on scaling up the public works program and
the FISP. In general, experts observe that while the regulatory framework on the environment in
Malawi is broadly aligned with international standards for the level of economic development of
Malawi, the implementation of this framework can be strengthened.
18.     The conclusion of an environmental assessment of the proposed reforms,
undertaken as per the requirements of OP 8.60, is that the reforms are not likely to have a
significant environmental impact. As part of the environmental assessment, the Bank has also
reviewed the possible impact of the RRDPG reforms in the procurement of fertilizers, but found
that the negative environmental impact of this reform is likely to be minimal.


 IX.      Contact point
World Bank
Contact:      Appolenia Mbowe
Title:       Senior Economist
Tel:         5394+3203
Fax:         (265) 177 1158
Email:       `ambowe@worldbank.org
Location:     Lilongwe, Malawi (IBRD)

X.     Borrower
Contact:     Randson P. Mwadiwa
Title:       Secretary to Treasury
Tel:         (265) 1 788 781
Email:       stfinance@finance.gov.mw

XI.    For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
