RETURN TO
REPORTS DR E S R I C T E D
WITHIN                               Relport No.    PE-26a
ONE WEKff£
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The repQrt may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AN) DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
TECHNICAL AND AGRICULTURAL
EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
BRAZIL
March 17, 1971
Education Projects Department



CURENCY EQUIVALENTS
U.S. $1.00   = Cr 4.72
Cr 1         - 21.19 Cents
Cr 1,000     = U S. $211.86
Cr 1,000,000 = U.S. $211,864
1EASURES
1 m       = 1.20yd
1 m2      = 10.76 sq yd
1 hm2     - 0.38 sq mi
1 hectare = 2.47 ac



BRAZIL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......................................i
I.  INTRODUCTION ...................... .....................
The Request ..................... ...................
Socio-economic Background ............       ..............
The Education and Training System ....             ..............   2
The Financing of Education ..... .............                      3
External Aid .......................................                4
Educational Planning ,..         ......... . ...............        4
Lending Strategy .....................                              5
II. MANPOWER AND EDUCATION NEEDS FOR
AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRY ...............................                 5
Agriculture ........................................                5
Industry ...........................................                6
III.  THE PROJECT   ............................................                8
General  ........................................... .               3
The Agricultural Colegios .....         ...................         8
Industrial Colegios ......        ..................... O....      10
Operational Engineers Centers ......................               10
Technical Assistance ......          .........................     12
Project Administration ......          .......................     12
Cost of Project .......         .............................      12
Capital Costs             ......................................   15
Recurrent Costs .......          .............................     15
IV.  IMPLEIENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS .......................                 16
Project Implementation Unit .....          ...................     16
Procurement ........         ................................      16
Sites          ..............................................      17
Construction Period ......           ..........................    17
Disbursements             ......................................   17
Subsidiary Agreement ......          .........................     17
V.  RECOMENDATIONS ........................................                  18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during February/March, 1970. The mission consisted of Messrs. M.
Cherniavsky (economist), D. Brewin (agricultural educator), L. Vera (architect),
F. Gamble (general educator - consultant) and F. Trautman (technical educator -
consultant). A second mission consisting of Messrs. R. Byron (technical
educator) and L. Vera (architect) visited Brazil in October, 1970 to appraise
additions to the project.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTD)
APPENDIX I - THE EDUCATION AND T1RAINING SYSTEM
APPENDIX II -   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ANNEXES
1.  Federal Education Budget, 1.69-70
2.  Existing and Projected,Fnxqllip.t in Project Agricultural
Colegios
3.  Operating Engineers Centers:  Projected courses.and enrollments
4.  Contingency Allowances
5. Enrollment Capacity and Areas.Required
6.  Estimated Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursemonts
CHARTS
1. Structure of the Education System, 1969
2.  New Structure of the Education Sys,tem
3.  Enrollments by Level at 3.eginlping of Year 19,68 ,ad Increase
Over 14964 Enrollme,nts
4.  Implementation, Expenditures. and D1shreents
MAP



GLOSSARY
Operational Engineers Center: An institution that offers three year post-
secondary courses for higher level technicians
Colegio:                        Upper level secondary school (grades 9
through 11). There are five main types -
academic, teacher training, commercial,
industrial and agricultural.
Ginasio:                        Lower level secondary school (grades 5
through 8). Presently of five main types,
as in the colegio; but a new type ginasio,
the polyvalent ginasio, is being introduced.
It provides orientation and pre-vocational
courses in agriculture, commerce, home
economics and industrial arts, as well as
academic subjects.






BRAZIL
BASTC DATA
Education (1968)
Literacy (population aged 10 or more):       65%
Enrollment of primary school age children
as a percentage of age group 7-10,
inclusive:                                64%
Enrollment of secondary school age
children as a percentage of age group
11-17, inclusive:                         16%
Education expenditures ($ million):
Federal                            256        25.2%
State                              5h3        53A4%
Municipal                          124        12.2%
Private                             93         9.2%
Total         1,016       100.0%
Education expenditures as
percentage of GDP:                          3.5%
Labor Force: 1970 estimates (million)
Persons aged 15-6bi                          51.6
Employment by sector                                              Annual Rates
of growth (%)
Percent   1950-60 1960-70
Agriculture                        13.6         h6.1       1.7      1.1
Industry                            L.0         13.6       2.b      3.?
Services                           11.9        h0.3        5.2      L.7
29.5       100.0        2.8     2.7






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A TECHNICAL AND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECr
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         The education development needs of Brazil are immense, comparable
in scale to the size and complexity of the country itself, and ranging from
basic needs in the western and northeastern sections to extremely sophis-
ticated elements in Sao Paulo. The preparation and implementation of an
education project commensurate with these needs is not possible at this time,
however, because of: (a) the absence of reliable educational statistics in
nearly all states; (b) responsibility for financing and administering primary
and secondary education is vested in the states, and many are unable to
finance needed expansions; and (c) insufficient progress in formulation of
state and federal education plans.  The proposed project, which would be
the Bank's first lending in Brazil for education, is theref-ore designed to
improve education and training opportunities in limited areas of major
economic significance.  The viability of the proposed items would not depend
on extensive planning at national level or require new policy decisions to
ensure federal government financial support.  In addition, all items would
complement financing in similar or parallel areas by other international and
biLat'eral agencies such as UNDP, USAID and the Ford Foundation.
ii.       More precisely, this project would (a) iciprove training opportuni--
ties of agricultural and industrial technicians at upper secondary (colegio)
level in Brazil and (b) establish new post-secondary centers and expand
the existing pilot center for training hiigher level industrial technicians
("operational engineers") in six major cities of Brazil. The efficiency of
industry is at present hampered by a lack of practically oriented technicians,
particularly those with sufficient education and training to assume super-
visory positions. In agricultulre, the extension and public advisory services
must be expanded, and the quality of their technicians improved in order to
increase productivity and develop Brazil's land resources. The proposed
project would assist Brazil in these fields; half the 16 project locations
would be in the North, North East or other less developed areas of Brazil.
iii.       The project would include construction and equipment for:
-    one new agricultural colegio and extensions to seven others;
-    extensions to two industrial colegios;
-    five new operational engineers centers and extensions to one
existing center.
It would also include 21 man-years of specialists' services (including
four rman-years for an education scctor survey of two states of Pernambuco
and Ceara) and six man-years of fellowships.



- ii -
iv.       Adequate numbers of qualified-eandidates for -a*tissIzon to the
project schools are available. The government's plans -to ensure availability
of qualified teachers were confirnied during loan negotiltions.
v.         The proposed project is estinated to -to4t u$s'021eOnilion .- iv-
alent with a foreign exchange component of W SA3.4 nhitT1ion -eqttleft.  One
of the,project institutions -is state--cont-rolJled --Atd tWo nre' nifer the au-
thority of an autonomous university; -for this p*t -f 'he projetthe *fed-
eral government has agreed to make contractual  nhemints  i'th *these organ-
izations satisfactory to the Bank to ensure Cthat ithese ivoIect ttems are
properly Imiplemented.
vi.       A project implementation unit Is be:ing est4b',hedaw:hln ilte
federal Hinistry of Education to Spovrde Dve;mlll XipelehbWn of -ehe *boj-
,ct.  Ibe ibuildings would be des*gnad iby 1e1. 
for civil works - mostly 1ikeily ptooo 'lXoal ^2                      ns -v
for furi,ture and equipment would be *.awre  On lihe 1,asts of  he i.3ikis
guidelines for iateroAtional competiitive 'lb4,61-g.  Doe  tic    *tFabrs of
furniture and equ4pment would he qocor4ed a j        4n oef   eT-4rence of  i*p to
15% of the c.i.f. price of competing Impot" :or the existln  level of custoims
duties, whichever is less.
vii.      The p-roject is suitable as a          I*;  a 'Bk t*n ofUS;8.%4 i:-
lion, or 40% of the estimated total projeet eo,    t          e   o*r 30  ei,
iacluding a grace period of ten y.ears.    e ffie lb                  all     ig
exchange costs and about 28% of the local 4mrty               , a-d iuld    iune
to the Federal Government of Brazil.



I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      Following visits by an IBRD/FAO/Unesco project identification
mission in June 1968, and by an IBRD reconnaissance mission in April 1969,
a Unesco project preparation mission assisted the governmenlt in September/
October 1969, in preparing an education project for submission to the
Bank. An appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. El. Cherniavsky (eco-
nomist), D. Brewin (agricultural educator), L. Vera (architect), F. Gamble
(general educator-consultant), and F. Trautman (technical educator-consul-
tant) visited Brazil in February/March 1970 to appraise the proposed proj-
ect.
1.02      Tle project prepared for appraisal consisted of the construction
and equipment of 50 polyvalent lower secondary schools (ginasios) in three
states and the Federal District, seven industrial upper secondary schools
(colegios) in five states and eight agricultural upper secondary schools
in six states and the Federal District, with related teacher training.
During appraisal, the federal government asked the Bank to consider fi-
nancing construction and equipment for six post-secondary operational
engineers centers, and withdrew five of the seven industrial colegios from
the project for which the required equipment had already been ordered.
Later it agreed that the polyvalent ginasios slhould also be withdrawn, since
USAID had already agreed to assist the government in developing the poly-
valent ginasio program. The request for the operational engineers centers
was appraised by M4essrs. R. Byron (technical educator) and L. Vera (archi-
tect) in October 1970. Thus, the proposed project now consists of buildings
and equipment for:
(a) seven existing agricultural colegios and one new one;
(b) two existing industrial colegios;
(c) one existing operational engineers center and five new
centers.
The project also includes technical assistance (21 man-years of specialists'
services and 6 man-years of overseas fellowships). The total project cost
is estimated at US$21.0 million for which a Bank loan of US$8.4 million is
proposed.
Socio-economic Background
1.03      The population of BraziL is about 93.3 million (1970) and is
growing at an average rate of 2.8% per annuni. The literacy rate for the
population over 10 years of age is about 65%; at present, about 64% of
the 7-10 age group and 16% of the 11-17 age group are enrolled in primary
and secondary education, respectively.



-2-
1.04      The prospects for continued economic growth are good (Economic
Report WH 203 dated November 4, 1970). Due to the rapid growth and expan-
sion of production in the last two decades, Brazil is now self-sufficient
in most industrial products. Industry and agriculture account respectively,
for about 34% and 21% of GDP. Agriculture, however, is still characterized
by low productivity and a wide area of subsistence farming, except for the
rich and intensively cultivated areas of the south. Yet, with the broad
range of ecological conditions and vast under-developed land and water re-
sources, the potential for expansion of agricultural production is great.
1.05      Present per capita GDP is about $300 but the distribution of in-
come between different regions of Brazil is very uneven; in Sao Paulo, the
richest state, per capita incomes are about three times those in the north
or north-eastern regions. There are similar contrasts in educational
opportunity and employment prospects:  the states with limited income
allocate most of their educational resources to the primary level, while
the richer ones have a relatively large and diversified secondary education
system and extensive vocational training programs. Brazil's labor force
employed in industry is estimated at about 4.0 million, of whom about two
thirds or 2.8 million are concentrated in the nation's three largest metro-
politan areas of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Belo ilorizonte, whose com-
bined population is roughly 15 million. The cities of Salvador and Recife
in the Northeast, with a combined population of about 2.2 million, are
rapidly diversifying and expanding their industrial base and it is estimated
that about 200,000 people in these two cities are employed in industry. In
addition to these five cities, there are about ten others with populations
exceeding 325,000, where a large part of Brazil's remaining industrial labor
force of 1 million is employed.
The Education and Training System (Appendix I)
1.06      Primary courses generally last four years (Grades 1-4); lower
secondary or "ginasio" also four years (Grades 5-8) and upper secondary
or "colegio" three years (Grades 9-11). University courses are of three
to six years' duration.
1.07      Enrollments in private institutions, which offer instruction at
all levels and are often subsidized by the public sector, account for 10%
of primary, 46% of secondary and 49% of higher education total enrollments.
1.08      Enrollments in agricultural and industrial colegios are only
5% of total colegio enrollments. The output from agricultural colegios
(about 1,130 in 1968) is inadequate to meet Brazil's needs. These colegios
have failed to produce technicians oriented towards, and trained for, a
life on the land: curricula are academic rather than practical; buildings
are dilapidated; equipment is obsolete or non-existent and farms pocrly
stocked.  Moreover, the selection of students has favored urban youth.
Nearly all teachers are part-time and efforts to introduce a systematic
teacher training program .Iave not been successful.  Iprovex,Lent leas l,een
:-nmperel in most agricultural cole-ios by inadeqiiatc operatin; hudgeuri.



1.09     iEurol1linents in industrial colc(-ios are ilso relatively small,
auniouuLiit-; Lo 34,00() or 4.2"' of total coleglo enrollments cind output in
1.968 was about 3,800.  Mtuchi of the equipment in tile colegios is inappropriate.
Ilut the aprimary weaknesses in the system are (a) excessively theoretical
curricula, (b) untrained, part-time teachers and (c) old-fashioned teaching
methods.  As a result, about two pupils in three do not complete the course.
1.10     hlowever, the introduction of a three-year post-secondary program
for "operational engineers" who are higher--level technicians with greater
practical orientation than that of the graduate engineer is a promising
new development. This program responds to industry's urgent need to develop
the sub-professional level, but the total enrollment of 3,400 can supply
only a small part of Brazil's requirements for high-level technicians. Major
constraints on an expansion of this program include shortage of funds for
facilities, equipment and staff training and scarcity of suitably trained
and qualified full-time teachers.
The Financing of Education
1.11      In 1968, public and private expenditures on education totalled
about Cr. 3.3 billion, distributed as follows:
Cr. Million      Percent
Federal Government                     830            25.2
State Governments                    1,750            53.2
Municipalities                         410            12.5
Private Sector                         300             9.1
Total                     3,290           100.0
The federal education expenditures were equivalent to only 7.2% of total
federal expenditures, while for the states the comparable figure was 19.4%.
The states' responsibility is greater in education than in other areas of
the public domain; in 1968, they provided about 69% of combLned federal
and state expenditures on education, compared with 40% of all federal and
state expenditures.  Federal support for education expenditure is directed
in principle to higher education and upper secondary (colegLo) education,
although the richer states and the private sector may finance additional
schools at these levels on their own. Federal financing and authority
over primary and lower secondary education are limited. The main features
of the federal education budget are: (i) about 60% of the government's
recurrent education expenditures are for high-level education and (ii) while
federal support of primary and secondary education accounts for a significant
part (20-25%) of total federal education expenditures (Annex I), the amounts
involved are small relative to the size of the system and the effort required



by the states, whose expenditures at primary and secondary level are collect-
ively some six times larger than those of the federal government. Expendi-
tures by municipalities and the private sector - mainly for primary and
secondary education, respectively - are also larger than the federal
government's expenditures at these levels.
1.12      Federal and State expenditures on education only were 2.7% of
Brazil's GDP in 1968. Total education expenditures in 1968 were equivalent
to slightly over 3.5/% of the GDP or an average of US$7.8 per capita.  This
is relatively low, but education expenditures have recently been increasing
faster than GDP and this trend is expected to continue. The annual aver-
age increase in federal and state expenditures on education over the pe-
riod 1968-76 is projected at 7.7% and 11.1% respectively; expenditures
would thus reach a level of Cr. 8.1 billion by 1976 (1969 prices), or
about 4% of estimated GDP. With the addition of municipal and private
education expenditures, the proportion would probably exceed 4.5%.
External Aid
1.13      The USAID is assisting Brazil in the introduction of a better
balanced curriculum for lower level secondary schools with the estab-
lishment of polyvalent ginasios, and recently has committed $32 million
towards a $64 million program for the construction or conversion of 302
polyvalent ginasios and eight experimental colegios in four states, and
for one pilot ginasio in each of the other 19 states. A second loan, which
will be channelled through a "State Plan Fund" to states which submit viable
education projects, is currently under discussion. The USAID is also assist-
ing in the development of teacher training, particularly for the practical
subject teachers who will be needed in the polyvalent ginasios, while UNDP
is providing 324 man-months of specialists to develop teacher training pro-
grams for practical subject teachers at colegio level. Tlese programs
will be administered by CENAFOR (National Center for Training of Technical
Personnel), a Sao Paulo based organization reporting to the Ministry of
Education.
1.14      Technical education has been assisted by equipment credits of
about $12 million from Eastern European countries and by a $3.0 million
loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The IDB has also
committed $25.0 million for the equipment and expansion of nine univer-
sities and $4.0 million for regional science research and teaching cen-
ters. The first federal center for training operational engineers in
Brazil has been developed with Ford Foundation grants of over $1 million
and is operating successfully.
Educational Planning
1.15      A number of federal and state documents exist which describe
new policies and quantitative targets for education, but the planning
mechanism is weak because of the circumscribed authority of the federal
government over the development of primary and secondary education. Im-
plementation of specific educational programs with limited objectives has
met with more success than implementation of broadly-based national or



-5-
state plans. Effective planning is also impeded by the difficulties of
assembling reliable data on enrollments, education expenditures, etc.,
and even on the characteristics and organization of the school system
which show significant variations from state to state. However, an im-
portant step toward improving educational and human resource data is ex-
pected through a UNDP-assisted program, under which 30 experts from six
international agencies will assist in coordinating and upgrading the work
of the many national, regional or state organizations active in human
resource analysis and planning.
Lending Strategy
1.16      The qtuality of the Brazilian education system is still very defi-
cient but remedies can be applied only step by step.  Nation-wide educational
development programs face major obstacles in their planning, implementation
and supervision. Pending progress in planning and control of the system,
as may result from the UNDP study (para. 1.15), external assistance, if it
is to be effective, must concentrate either on particular levels of the
education system administered by the federal government or on the education
systems of selected states. The proposed Bank loan to Brazil for education
will therefore be of limited scope, focussing on an area of the education
system (training of technicians for agriculture and industry) which is in
need of expansion and qualitative improvement. A subsequent lending to
the Brazilian education sector is expected to concentrate on the Northeast,
where the quality and content of education and training is particularly
deficient in relation to needs. This project therefore would include tech-
nical assistance for a survey of the education sector of two northeastern
states (Pernambuco and Ceara) in order to identify their priorities and
needs for educational development.
II. UMNPOWER AND EDUCATION NEEDS
FOR AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRY
Agriculture
2.01      Brazil must maintain a high rate of growth in agriculture in
order to increase exports, to meet rising domestic needs for food and in-
dustrial crops, and to provide a base for raising rural incomes.  Hence,
highier labor productivity is vital to sustain and accelerate the growtlh
in cropped acreage and yields. New techniques to raise output per unit
of land and per head of livestock must be more rapidly disseminated if
intensive farming is to replace low-yield extensive farm:Lng on which ex-
pansion of output has traditionally depended.
2.02      Brazil's agricultural extension service, known as ABCAR, is small
relative to the economic importance of agriculture (agriculture accounts
for about one-fifth of GDP and about four-fiftlhs of exports, and provides
a livin- for about 45% of the gainfully employed populat:Lon of 30 million).
In 1969, ABCAR employed about 950 degree-holders and 475 colegio graduates



- 6 -
to cover all agricultural areas of Brazll except tlhe state of Sao Paulo,
which has its own state extension service.  This number corresponds to
an average of about one extension a-ent for every 5,500 fan! -* "rkers,
while the ratio in Sao Paulo is ab,e':t ',:5)00.  Toreover, the distribu-
tion of the extension servi ce is tiot uT'- lorr. ; there are many heavily
farmed areas, particularly in the northeast, without extension workers.
These ratios (corresponding to a national average of 1:7,000) need to be
improved to a more appropriate 1:3,000 or 1:4,000, which would require an
annual intake of about 1,200 in to the extension services.
2.03      The existing output of the agricultural colegios is about 1,130
a year (Appendix I, para. 17), but only a small fraction enters-the exten-
sion service.  Some are employed in estate farming or agro-business (iiainly
in the South) or in state or regional agriculture advisory agencies, but
many - possibly a majority - migrate to large towns.  In order to eliminate
these losses and ensure the efficient use of resources in agricultural
colegios, student selection, training and orientation must be improved
without delay as the agricultural cologios are the main vehicle for pro-
viding Brazil with a larger and more widely distributed network of field
workers who can impart new technology and higher productivity to the farm
population. However, the expansion of the agricultural extension and other
advisory services will be a slow process because of federal and state budg-
etary constraints.  The government is therefore planning to improve i-me-
diately a selected number of its agricultural colegios (to represent 25%
of total enrollments by 1973) which may supply the labor market with about
700 additional extension and related workers p.a. by 1975. This would,
alloxw the overall ratio of extension workers per farm workers to improve
to about 1:6,000 at most by 1980.  Further progress would result from
extension to the other agricultural colegios of the experience gained with
the present scheme.
Industry
2.04      While Brazil's GDP grew at an average annual rate of some 5.2%
from 1949 to 1968, the output of its manufacturing industries rose by an
average annual rate of 7.2,.  This growth in manufacturing, however, relied
heavily on well-protected iL.port substitution. Further progress in this
direction will be difficult, and a new strategy for continuing dynamic and
self-sustaining industrial expansion has been introduced, combining in-
creased exports and accelerated expansion of the do-mestic market; this in
turn depends, on the supply side, on achieviing improvem,ents in productive
efficiency, and lower costs anid prices in the manufacturing industries.
2.05      '3razil has a large pool of unskilled labor which ihas migrated
into the industrial centers from rural areas, it h17s a widespread system
of vocational trainiing and upgradiing courses to meet industry's need for
semi-skilled and skilled labor; it has, also, an ample supply of engineers
and managenment personnel with university education. Hlowever, qualified
technicians are still lacking because the industrial cole.ios have been un-
dulv biased towards theoretical studies and have provided inadequate train-
ing and insufficient eXperience in practical subjects (para. 1.09).



-7-
2.06      It is estimated that about 3,000 graduates from engineering fac-
ulties enter industrial employment each year, while at the intermediate
level annual output from the operational engineers programs is only about
650 or a ratio of almost 1 operational engineer to 5 graduate engineers.
For more efficient use of both levels, the output of operational engineers
should at least equal, and preferably exceed, the output of graduate en-
gineers. Assuming little increase in the demand for degree engineers by 1980,
the output of the six project centers (1,000) plus the present 650 would
still be limited in comparison with needs, but is the maximum feasible con-
sidering present capabilities for training administrators and teachers.
2.07      For economic use of manpower, several colegio graduates are needed
to support each operational engineer. An annual flow inito industry of about
20,000 industrial colegio graduates may be required by 1980. The present
output is about 4,000, of which only about one-third enter industrial employ-
ment; the balance either find white collar jobs or continue their studies.
In addition to the quantitative need, there is an overriding need for
qualitative improvement in junior technician training in order to raise the
present low average retention rate of only 30% in the industrial colegios
and to produce graduates who would meet better the requirements of industry.
Essential elements in this improvement would be better teaching staff,
especially of practical subjects, improved teaching accotmmodation, and equip-
ment more relevant to the required courses.



III.  TIE PPOJECT
General
3.01       The project is designed to up2ra"Q the quali4y,and tncrcas.eL thLe
output of agricultural and industrial tccenician  at,c%l$,;gi,o  4.e1 and
expand the output of operational eng-ineers at,pqo,s,serond4yry level- Vie
project would include the financing, of (a) co a4-tVqc,           and eqyjp-ent.of
new institutions and e-xtensions to e::isq                                 below,
(b) technical assistance, and (c). es .abliU  0ert.oq,t1B,project inpiementation
unit.  The estinmated cost is US$21.0 ,nillion equivalent.
Type of 1/          -       &itistrative       Lrollpp,4s Acc oi*4tion H'o,using
Institution-          Nu-nber    AuthorLty       N:ew   Total   (11ide.iiis)   Units
Agricultural Cole,.ios
-  ew                  1    Santa                420   420          420        13
University-
7~~~~~~~.    '40#  2,220             .1 7t'40
Extensions           7    Federal,Govt,(5) 1j,740 2,22          1,740         71
Sao Pau4o State (1)
Santa i;.ria
University (1)
Industrial Colegios
- Extensions           2    Federal Govt.   2,450 3,940              -          2
Operational Engineers
Centers
- New                  5    Federal Govt.   3,000 3,000
- Extensions           1                         320   720           -
1/   For location, see map at en,d of, report,.- 
2/  iAn autonormous university supported by the Federal Coverniment.
Tne Agricultural Colegios
3.02       The size, location and Pont r1liRg ^thpr,* ty pof the q4  t,agri-
cultural colegios which would,be,iinlu  dJ4 ..tbe project are shown in
Annex 2.  Seven of the colegios would be  $built, extended and re-e,tquipped
to enahle their enrollnents at cole;io level to rise from 430 to 1,8O0;



-9
one colegio would be new, with an enrollment of 360 in the three year pro-
gram. Each of the eight colegios would, in addition, have a new, post-
secondary (fourth) year in which 60 selected students would be given
specialized training.  Combined enrollment in all eight ,colegios (both
courses) would thus be 2,640, representing a quarter of the estimated total
enrollment in agricultural colegios in Brazil by 1973.
3.03      The curriculum recently introduced in the agricultural colegios
is an important step forward in orienting students towarids practical agri-
culture. Thirty-five percent of the new curriculum is aLlocated for prac-
tical work, whereas the former curriculum did not stipulate a minimum and
at least 80% of a student's time was typically spent in the classroom.
Mloreover, under the "escola fazenda" (farm school) philosophy, introduced
on a pilot basis into Brazil a few years ago, a proportion of the produc-
tion resulting from students' supervised farming would provide cash to the
students and credit (through a cooperative) for student-imanaged projects.
With the emphasis on learning by doing, students will develop practical
skills which will be of immediate use to Brazil's extension service. The
fourth year will provide selected students with additional training in
crop or animal production and prepare them for careers as senior techni-
cians.
3.04      Five of the eight colegios would be under the federal government.
The colegio in the Federal District, within easy reach of the Directorate
of Agricultural Education of the Federal Ministry of Education would serve
as a model of the new technician training. The two colegios in Rio Grande
do Sul are located in developed agricultural areas and will be under the
authority of the University of Santa Maria, which has a strong agricultural
bias. Three colegios will be in the North and Northeast, including one in
the state of Para (population 2.0 million) and another in the state of
Pernambuco (population 4.9 million) which would serve as the only agricul-
tural colegios in those states. The two other colegios - in the states of
Goias and Sao Paulo - are located in areas whose agricultural potential is
already well exploited. The colegios in Pernambuco and Sao Paulo already
have several buildings but are not complete, while the others are ill-equipped,
with poorly stocked fanrs and several derelict buildings.
3.05      Tle colegio in the Federal District will be one of about six in
different regions of Brazil organizi.ig agricultural teacher training and
upgrading courses, in conjunction withi a local university, under the
guidance of CENAFOR (para. 1.13 above).  Other colegios in the Bank project
will also offer teacher-training courses, to be planned with assistance
from CENAFOR, from time to time, according to needs in the region.  During
negotiations, the government provided satisfactory plans for the training
of adequate number of practical subject teachers, together with assurances
that such plans would be implemented.  Teachers of academic subjects are
available in adequate numbers, principally from the Faculties of Education
of universities in the sare region as each agricultural colegio.



- lo -
3.06      At present, many enrolled in agricultural colegios come from
urban areas and take this type of training by default, with no intention
of seeking rural or agriculture-related eiaployment.  As the quality of
training provided in agricultural colegios improves and employment opportun-
ities broaden, colegios will be able to be more selective in thEe type of
student they enroll. During negotiations, the government provided assur-
i ances that it would develop and introduce effective procedures for select-
ing agricultural colegio applicants.
Industrial Colegios
3.07      This project item would comprise the federal industrial colegios
at Campos (State of Rio de Janeiro) and Belem (State of Para). The colegio
at Camnpos (population 400,000) is located about five lhours by road from
Rio; an industrial zone was recently establislhedl and a number of light
industries are mi,oving into the area.  The project would finance construction
of a library, new equipment and remodelling of all laboratories and work-
shops.  At Belem (population 625,000) existing classrooms would be remodel-
led and one new science building and five new laboratory/workshops would
be added.  As a result, enrollments could increase from 440 to 1,790 at
Cainpos and from. 1,050 to 2,150 at Belemn; both colegios would serve a wide
region and draw on the output of a large number of ginasios.
3.08      The course would remain at tlhree years, but completion of a
fourth year in industry would be required for award of the junior technician
certificate.  New curricula are bein; designed by a planning u-tt called
CEPETI (Special Commission to .xecute the Plan of Improvement and Expanision
of Technical and Industrial Teachin) to reorient course content towards
the more practical needs of modern-day Brazil and towards the aptitudes of
the average student.  ThDe government has provided assurances that the new
curricula would be presented to the Banlk for review and comment within six
aonths of loan signature.
3.09      The training of practical subject teachers for the two industrial
colegios will be undertaker. by CEMAFOR.  Those for the Campos colerfi  are
e :pected to be trained in Rio and those for tlle Belem cole-io in Recife or
Belem, using a local university and the vorlkshops of al existing colegio
or vocational training center.  A total of 300 equ±valent full-timle teachers
will be required in tle two project colegics, most of then teachers in
specialties (including practical subjects) wlho are in shlort supply.  During
negotiations, the federal government presented plans, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the training by CENAFOR of these teachers.  Teachers of tlleoretical
subjects are available in sufficient nautbers for both colegios.
Operational 2ngineers Centers
3.10      hle project would finance (a) new buildings and equipment for
operational engineers centers at the federal industrill cole-ios of Aelo
:iorizonte, Curitiba, Recife, Salvador and Sao Paulo, and (b) huilding
, ~tensions and equin:icnt for thie e:-istin- Ce;ntre at t1he Fonseca Industrial



- 11 -
colegio in Rio de Janciro. All would be under the federal government. Each
center would share certain administrative services and commiunal facilities
with the industrial colegio on the same campus; at capacity, enrollment in
these centers will be 3,720 and output 1,000 (Annex 3).
3.11      Courses are of three years' duration and students are normally
recruited from industrial colegios or from the science stream of academic
colegios.  The entry requirements are the same as for the university, but
there is no problem in attracting students into sub-professional training,
since over half the colegio graduates who pass the qualifying exam for
university cannot immediately find a place and many seek alternative train-
ing rather than wait indefinitely. Zven then, the competition is stiff;
only one qualified applicant in four can be accepted at present at the
Fonseca colegio in Rio de Janeiro. Similarly keen competition for places
is expected to be felt at the new project centers.
3.12      Each center will enroll students In four to six of eleven courses
relevant to the type of industrial production in each region. In Sao Paulo,
Rio de Janeiro and Belo Hlorizonte, the scale and diversity of industrial
production is coLLparable to that in many cities of north Almerica and the
projected output of 565 from. these three Centers will be small in relation
to an estimated industrial labor force of at least 3.5 million in 1975.
Industrial activity in Curitiba (which by 1975 should have an industrial
labor force of about 150,000) is concentrated in wood, paper and pulp manu-
facturing; part of the Centre's output of 165 is likely to take employment
in Sao Paulo, wlhich is relatively close. industry in Recife and Salvador,
assisted by tax credits and other incentives offered by the federal govern-
ment, is expanding rapidly; Salvador is Brazil's petrochemical center whlile
Recife, the main industrial center of the Northeast, serves a market of
about 30 million people. Few, if any, operational engineers have been avail-
able in these two cities, and the 270 students wlho will graduate annuaily
will easily find employment among a labor force in industry which will have
reaclhed at least 250,000 by 1975.
3.13      At capacity, the six centers will require 310 administrators and
instructors (Annex 3).  U3AID is expected to continue providing the federal
government with scholarships for studies in en,,ineering education for the
director of each center aiid about 40 department heads and other senior
staff. Furthler scholarsihips are being offered by the Ford Foundation, which
also is expected to provide a coordii,ator of engineering education for 18
months for the teacirer training program at the Fonseca colegio, which will
be staffed by nine teachier trainers who lhave already been identified.  In
four years, the program would train the necessary staff for the six centers.
During negotiations, the governmenlt presented plans, satisfactory to the
Bank, for training the administrators and instructors at the project centers
and gave an assurance that it would provide scholarships, on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the 3ank, for study abroad for six directors and 40
department lheads and other senior staff.
3.14      The teacher training prograrn will offer courses of up to 18 months
in duration; the typical instructor in the project centers will be an



- 12 -
operational engineer and will attend the full course, while experienced
teachers will take a shorter course with technical and pedagogical content
according to individual need. The government will provide scholarships
for trainees, lincluding allowances in lieu of salary for practising
teachers; trained teachers will be employed thereafter on a full-time
basis at the Centers. At each center, there is an advisory committee
drawn from local industry. In addition, the government has agreed that a
placement officer will be appointed at each Center in order to maintain a
continuing liaison with local industry and trace the employment of the
Center's graduates.
Technical Assistance (see Appendix II)
3.15      The project would finance 17 man years of specialists' services
and overseas fellowships to assist the federal government to establishi aew
courses at the Operational ELngineers Centers and to reform course content
in the agricultural colegios. This Lechnical assistance would cover plan-
ning, curriculum developmtent and the development of local staff as teaclhers
and administrators. In addition, six man-years of overseas fellowships
would be provided to train eight graduate agronomists in the planning and
administration of agricultural education at upper secondary level. The
governnment. has provided an assurance that Lhe specialists, the trainees
aid the programs of overseas studies financed by the loan would be selected
in accordance with criteria aid a tiametable agreeable to the Bank.
3.16      The project also includes four man years of technical assistance
for an education survey of the states of Pernambuco (which is the industrial
center of the Northeast) and Ceara, whose econoimy is still predominantly
rural. A survey of the education and training system in these states and
of existing physical facilities would be conducted in accordance with an
agreed timetable, and would assist in identifying areas which require im-
provement or expansion in relation to each state's development needs.  Thu
findings of the survey would also assist educational planning in other
Northeastern states and could lead to a second Bank education project
(para. 1.16).
3.17      The government has provided assurances that the experts required
for the education sector survey would be acceptable to the Bank and would
be employed on terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank.
Project Administration
3.18      To assist in recruitment of full-time qualified personnel, the
project would include the salaries of the nine principal officers in the
Project Implementation Unit.
Cost of the Project
3.19      The estimiated costs and foreign exciiange component of the various
parts of the project are sumimarized below:



- 13 -
Cruzeiros                             % of
(as of Sept 70)         US Dollars       Base-
(millions)           (millions)       Line
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Cost
1.  Agricultural Colegios    31.67   4.67  36.34   6.71   0.99   7.70  45.1
2.  Industrial Colegios         7.91   1.14   9.05   1.68   0.24   1.92  11.2
3.  Operational Engineering  25.49   3.75  29.24   5.39   0.80   6.19  36.3
4.  Technical Assistance        0.63   3.03   3.66   0.13   0.64   0.77   4.5
5.  Project Administration    2.25   0.06   2.31   0.48   0.01   0.49   2.9
Base-Line Costs          67.95  12.65  80.60  14.39   2.,68  17.07 100.0
6.  Contingencies              15.13   3.21. 18.34   3.21   0.,68   3.89  22.8
Total Project Cost       83.08  15.86  98.94  17.60   3.36  20.96
3.20      A breakdown of the costs by various types of expenditures would
be as follows:
Cruzeiros                             % of
(as of Sept 70)         US Do:Llars      Base-
(millions)            (mill:Lons)      Line
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Cost
1. Construction
Academic and Communal
Facilities                 22.82   0.66  23.48   4.83   0.14   4.97  29.1
Boarding Facilities           5.63   0.19   5.82   1.19   0.04   1.23   7.2
Staff Houses                  4.54   0.14   4.68   0.96   0.03   0.99   5.8
Farm Buildings                2.72   0.05   2.77   0.58   0.01   0.59   3.4
Site Development              4.31   0.14   4.45   0.91   0.03   0.94   5.5
Professional Services         3.14           3.14.  0.66           0.66   3.9
2.  Furniture                   6.86   0.33   7.19   1.46   0.07   1.53   9.0
3.  Equipment                  15.05   8.05  23.10   3.19   1.71   4.90  28.7
4.  Technical Assistance        0.63   3.03   3.66   0.13   0.64   0.77   4.5
5.  Project Administration    2.25   0.06   2.31   0.48   0.01   0.49   2.9
Base-Line Costs          67.95  12.65  80.60  14.39   2.68  17.07 100.0
6.  Contingencies              15.13   3.21  18.34   3.21   0.68   3.89  22.8
Total Project Cost       83.08  15.86  98.94  17.60   3.36  20.96



- 14 -
3.21      Construction costs, in cruzeiros, have increased 25 times since
1961, but in dollar equivalents, the rate of increase hias averaged about 4%
annually. Assuming that the increase, in dollar equivalent, will continue
at the same rate, a provision of 10% of construction costs is included in
the contingency allowance to cover the anticipated rise in building costs
during the construction period. In addition, an allowance of 10% of
construction costs has been inade to meet any unforeseen costs at this time;
this is appropriate in view of the amaount of extension work involved for
which detailed estimates must await the final design stage, the great dis-
tances between project schools and supply- sources, and regional variations
in wages and salaries.  The details of the allowances provided for price
increase and contiugencies for other components of Llie project are shown
in Annex 4. The overall average provision for contingencies would amount
to 22.8% of base-line costs or 18.5% of total project cost (9.1% for un-
foreseen factors; 9.4% for price increases).
3.22      Since most buildiing materials, furniture, electrical equipment
and sanitary fixtures are locally produced (some royalties are paid for
manufacturing foreign-patented products), the foreign exchange component
of the proposed project is low: US$3.36 million equivalent, represeniting
16.0% of total project costs.  It has been calculated as follows: (i) site
developm,ent and construction,- 3.0%, (ii) furniture, 5.0%; (iii) equipment,
35.0%; (iv) project adminiistration 2.4e'; and (v) technical assistance, 83.-
A Bank loan of US$8.4 iuiillion equivalent would finance about 40.0X of the
total project cost, including the total estimated foreign exchange costs
and 28.5% of local currency costs.
3.23      The enrollment capacity of each project institution, and the area
required, are shown in Annex 5.  Wiith the exception of the agricultural
colegio at Santa Mlaria, all project items involve extenisions to existing
buildings or sites and/or joint use of facilities and staff, so that cost
per student place combparisons are not meaniingful. Estimated unit costs per
student place at Santa MIaria, excluding professional fees and contingencies,
are shlown below:
Unit Costs (in US dollars)
Site
Cost Category      Unit   Developm!ient Ruildin- Furniture   Equipment  Total
1. Academiic and  Student
Conm,iunal     place        66        653          64          290     1,078
2. Boardinj        oardin,
place        57       570         338           19        984
3. Staff Elousing Staff
liouse    1,038    10,354          -            -      11,392



- 15 -
3.24      These total costs are reasonable for institutions of this type.
For example, the cost per student place of academic and communal facilities
in the agricultural colegios (US$1,078) compares well with US$1,205 in the
case of the Chilean agricultural schools (grades 9-12).
Capital Costs
3.25      The federal government would finance Brazil's share of the capital
cost of all project items, including those under the State of Sao Paulo
and the University of Santa Maria.
Recurrent Costs
3.26      At present, per pupil recurrent expenditures in federal agri-
cultural colegios are about $100 annually, in federal industrial colegios
about $225 and in the federal operational engineers center about $475.
The recurrent cost to the federal government of the project institutions,
based on existing enrollments (where applicable) is therefore about $575,000
annually, or 0.3% of estimated recurrent federal education expenditures in
1970 and 2.9% of the amounts allocated for technical and agricultural
education (Annex 1).
3.27      In the future, in order to cover higher salaries for trained
teachers and inputs for better equipped and more practicalLy oriented
courses in the agricultural and industrial colegios, recurrent costs per
pupil/year must be at least $150 and $450 respectively, whiLle the present
level of expenditure in the operational engineers centers raust be maintained.
Based on projected enrollments in all institutions, this implies a maximum
recurrent cost to the federal government of $3.9 million a year at capacity.
It is estimated that by 1975 this still would represent under 1.5% of the
federal government's recurrent education expenditures and about 10% of its
expenditures on technical and agricultural education. These increases are
within the capacity of the federal education budget and can be met without
significant curtailment in other federal education expenditures. The above
total estimated recurrent cost includes about $100,000 and $350,000 for the
project items under the autonomous University of Santa Maria and the State
of Sao Paulo; these amounts are within their budgetary resources. The
federal government provided an assurance that, under suitable arrangements
with the parties concerned, it would ensure in case of necessity that
adequate funds would be available to meet the recurrent costs of these
institutions as well.



- 16 -
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Implementation Unit
4.01      A project implementation unit would be established within the
Federal Ministry of Education and be responsible for: (a) overall man-
agement of the project; (b) coordination with other ministries such as
Planning, Agriculture, and Public Works; (c) coordination with the state
governments; and (d) liaison with the Bank. A project director, an edu-
cator and an architect all acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed on
a full-time basis as a condition of signing the loan agreement. Other
principal officers of the project unit would comprise a full-time
accountant, two regional officers, one specialist in school furniture,
one specialist in instructional equipment and a purchasing agent; all
would be appointed within six months of the loan signature.  To ensure
recruitment of qualified Brazilians, the salaries of the above mentioned
personnel during the period of the project implementation, and some
office equipment, would be financed by the loan.  The federal government
has provided assurances that the project unit would have, in addition,
sufficient supporting staff, premises, communications and transport fa-
cilities to enable it to function effectively; the establishment and
operation of the project unit to the satisfaction of the government and
the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan agreement.
Procurement
4.02      Civil works and furniture and equipment supply contracts would
be awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for international com-
petitive bidding. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would
be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of  omp-eting
imports or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Items giould
be grouped to the extent practicable to form sizeable bid packages and to
permit bulk procurement. The project implementation unit would be respon-
sible for preparing and issuing tenders, evaluating bids, and awarding the
contracts. A detailed master list of furniture and instructional equip-
ment would be submitted for Bank approval prior to procurement. It is
unlikely that many foreign firms would submit bids, except for equipment,
since Brazil has a well-developed furniture manufacturing industry and a
highly competitive construction industry.
4.03      The proposed project is well within the capacity of the Brazilian
building industry to implement; total construction under the project would
correspond to 1.8% of the value of recent annual construction activity.
A large number of qualified building contractors exist in all project
locations.  An appropriate pre-qualification system would be introduced to
ensure that only properly qualified contractors would be permitted to
submit bids for the construction of the project schiools.



- 17 -
4.04      The project institutions would be designed by consultant archi-
tects acceptable to the Bank and commissioned on terms and ,conditions satis-
factory to the Bank. An ample supply of qualified architects also exists
in Brazil, whiich has over 8,250 professional architects. Foreign archi-
tectural firms are allowed to practice in Brazil only in partnership with
Brazilian architects.
Sites
4.05      The federal government or the state governments would provide all
sites, as appropriate, without cost to the project.  Only one site remains
to be acquired; this will be done on time to implement the project.  The
agricultural colegio at Belo Jardim (Pernambuco) is in the process of
acquiring additional farm land sufficient for its planned enrollment of
300. Sufficient land is available for all other institutions requiring
expansion.
Construction Period
4.06      It is planned that construction would be completed within a 2-1/2
year period; the period of implementation would thus spread over 4-1/2
years, including a preparation period of 12 months and a defects and lia-
bility period of 12 months (Chart 4).
Disbursements
4.07      The proposed loan would finance $8.4 million or 40% of the total
actual cost of the project whichever is the lower. Expenditures would be
reimbursed on the basis of 40% of each cost category. Undisbursed amounts
would be subject to cancellation. The estimated schedule of disbursements
is shown in Annex 6.
Subsidiary Agreement
4.08      Of the eight agricultural colegios, one would be under the State
of Sao Paulo and two, under the University of Santa Maria. Within nine
months of loan signing, both entities would make appropriate contractual
arrangements with the federal government to ensure that the purposes of
the proposed loan are implemented as agreed between the federal government
and.the Bank.  Satisfactory evidence of such arrangements would be a condi-
tion of disbursement of the proceeds of the loan allocated to the above
three colegios.



- 18 -
V. RECOMMNDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower
that:
(a)  it would take all necessary action to ensure that practical
subject teachers for the agricultural and industrial colegios
and administrators and instructors for the operational engineers
centers receive appropriate training as required for purposes
of the project (paras. 3.05, 3.09, 3.13);
(b)  a program of felloiships would be established for training
abroad of eight graduate agronomists and about 50 administra-
tors of the operational engineers centers (paras. 3.13, 3.15);
(c)  the specialists in management, planning, curriculum and staff
development financed by the loan and the experts for the
educational survey in the States of Ceara and Pernambuco would
be selected in accordance with criteria and timetables agreed
with the Bank (paras. 3.15, 3.16, 3.17);
t 5.02       A condition for disbursewent of the proceeds of the loan allocated
to the agricultural colegios under the State of Sao Paulo and the University
of Santa Maria would be the provision of satisfactory evidence, within
nine months of loan signing, that suitable arrangements had been made
between these entities and the federal government to ensure that the provi-
sions of the loan, as agreed between the federal government and the Bank,
would be implemented.
j 5.03      An additional condition of effectiveness of the loan agreement
would be the establishment and operation of the project unit to the satis-
faction of the government and the Bank (para. 4.01).
5.04      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of $8.4 million
equivalent, repayable over a period of 30 years, including 10-year period
of grace. The loan would be made to the Federal Government of Brazil.



APPENDIX I
Page     1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
General Education
1.        The principal body responsible for education policy in Brazil
is the Federal Council of Education. This is a group of 24 leading
educators, charged with setting up the basic guidelines and standards
for education with special emphasis on higher education. The basic law
for education ("Lei de Diretrizes e Bases" - No. 4024 of December 20, 1961),
which created the Federal Education Council, also created the State Edu-
cation Councils. The Ministry of Education and Culture under law 4024
has only a supervisory and supplementary role in both secondary and ele-
mentary education, leaving principal responsibilities to the state govern-
ments. However, in many states the Secretariat of Education is not ade-
quately structured or staffed to perform its function properly. This makes
the Federal Ministry's supervisory role quite a considerable one and, al-
though it is giving some assistance to the states, it is not equipped to
provide the amount needed.
Present Structure
2.        Primary education usually begins at seven years of age and lasts
four years, following which students take entrance examinations for the
secondary schools of their choice. In some states a fifth year of primary
education is offered, and occasionally a sixth. Secondary education lasts
seven years, and comprises a four-year first cycle "ginasio" course fol-
lowed by a three-year second cycle "colegio" course. Students who fail
to enter an academic ginasio or colegio can enter vocational schools -
agricultural, industrial, commercial, or primary teacher training (normal) -
which offer instruction at both first and second cycle levels. Completion
of a colegio program of any type confers the right to take a university
entrance examination (the 'vestibular'). Undergraduate courses, the
length of which is determined by the Federal Education Council, are
usually of three to six years duration. The school year runs generally
from March to December.
3.        The present educational system needs improvement in several impor-
tant respects, notably:
(i) 83.5% of ginasio enrollment is of the academic type, which
provides no basic preparation or orientation in the manual
skills. Most ginasio students do not go beyond this level
and may well need to work with their hanids.



APPENDIX I
Page     2
(ii)  The great majority of schools in Brazil are operating two,
three and even four shifts a day; hence the students'
daily time in schools is severely limited.
(iii) The conditions of service are not attractive to qualified
teachers, and do not proiote creation of a dedicated pro-
fessional force. Most teachers are part-time, either
having another job or teaching in several schools.
(iv) Few schools have suitable buildings, practical workshops
and laboratories, or suitable apparatus and equipment.
Such equipment as is found in a school i8 often not used
for want of a teacher who wishes or knows how to use it.
(v) The objectives of the various types of secondary schools
are not clearly defined and the content of education is
consequently not always relevant to the needs of the
economy.
Prixary and General SecoandarY Education: Sumary
4.        The following table shove numbers enrolled and the size of
the teaching force in all prinary and general secondary schools (federal,
state, anicipal and private) in Brazil in 1968.
Estimated                 Percent
size of       Enroll-   of  age    Nuber of    Puplil
age group /1    aents      group     practicing   teacher
o2o)          (000s)    enrolled    teachers    ratio 13
Primary level    10,300        11,943      116% 12    382,360       31:1
Gisasto level      9,000        2,405       27%       132,506       18:1
Colegio level     6,000           801       13%        78,634       10:1
11  7-10, 11-14 and 15-17 age groups reepectively.
12   Enrollments of children aged 7-10 are estimated at 6.6 million.
There are therefore about 5.3 million children attending primary
school who are outside this age group. Similarly, at secondary
level about 0.8 million students are outside the 11-17 age group.
/3   Not significant, since so many teacbers are part-tlie. Most
primary classes have 40-50 pupils (often oore in urbas ateas) and
at secondary level class sizes below 40 are rare.
Priaary Education
5.        from 1960 to 1968 primary school earollments increased by over
6% per annum, about double the annual rate of tscrease in the age grep.



APPENDIX I
Page     3
Ninety percent of primary enrollments are in public schools, mainly state
and municipal, where instruction is free. Time in school is short because
of the multishift system and physical facilities are poor - about half the
schools were not built as such and textbooks are seldom available or used
except by the teacher.  One-room schools account for some 70% of all
schools, 40% of all classrooms, and 25% of total enrollmernt.  Standards
in rural areas are particularly low; only 30% of rural teachers are normal
school graduates against 75% in the urban areas.
6.        The curriculum is crowded and difficult; a recent study showed
that the Brazilian child was expected to master more and at an earlier
age than children in a sample of developed countries. It is not surprising
therefore that repetition and drop-out rates are extremely high; for
example:
In 1968, two-fifths of students in grade 1 were repeaters
and roughly one-fifth of the students in other grades.
-    Only 14% of those enrolled in grade 1 in 1964 completed
grade 4 in 1967.
-    Some 10% of pupils drop out during the school year and a
further 25% either drop out at the end of the year or
transfer to other schools.
Primary Teacher Training
7.        This is provided in normal schools at both ginasio (grades 5
through 8) and colegio (grades 9 through 11) levels.  Normal ginasios
should slowly disappear as polyvalent ginasios become the rule. In 1968
normal ginasio and colegio enrollments were 62,861 and 281,792 respectivly,
with outputs of about 8,000 and 60,000, mainly girls. However, less than
50% of the students in normal schools intend to become teachers; the re-
mainder enter such schools merely in order to continue their education.
Secondary Education (Grades 5-11)
8.        The 1961 Basic Law specifies five subjects (Portuguese, mathe-
matics, history, science and geography) to be studied at each level of
secondary education. The State Councils then complete the list of required
courses and define their content, and individual schools are free to
select optional additional subjects from a list developed by the State
Council.
9.        Most public schools operate in three sessions, with the night
session sometimes not beginning until 7 p.m. to enable o]Lder students who
are already working to attend. The most striking characteristic of the
secondary school enrollment pattern has been its rapid growth - over 13%



APPENDIX I
Page     4
per annum over the last eight years. The public sector, mainly state, has
grown faster than the private; in 1957 it accounted for only 32% of total
enrollment against 54% in 1968. However, this increase has been made pos-
sible only by overcrowding classes and three-shift working. Despite this
increase, only about one-half the qualified students seeking admission to
secondary schools can be accepted.
10.       Academic courses, which are regarded as the main avenue to the
university, account for 83.5% of ginasio enrollment. The specialized
ginasios attract less able students, specialize too early, and have
higher drop-out rates. As a partial remedy, a new type of ginasio -- the
polyvalent ginasio -- has been conceived to provide orientation and pre-
vocational courses in agriculture, commerce, home economics and industrial
arts, as well as academic subjects. About one pupil in three entering a
ginasio completes the colegio course. At the colegio level the academic
course still predominates with 39% of enrollment, but teacher training (35%)
and commercial courses (20%) become important.
11.       Ginasio and colegio courses become increasingly specialized as
the level increases - the first two years of all ginasio courses are very
similar, while the last year of colegio is organized to prepare students
for university, with courses titled 'pre-medicine', 'pre-engineering',
etc. Teaching is mainly by the lecture method and courses are too academic.
Science laboratories and workshops are rare. The teaching staff is almost
entirely part-time, and less than 40% are qualified. As a result, important
areas such as student counselling and course and curriculum planning and
improvement are neglected. The roots of the problem are low teacher
salaries and salary structures which put a premium on part-time teaching.
Salaries have recently been increased in some states, but the dis-incentive
to full-time teaching remains.
Technical Education and Vocational Training
12.       Enrollment in industrial ginasios accounted in 1968 for only
3.6% of total ginasio enrollment in Brazil; at the colegio level this
ratio was 4.25%. The drop-out rate is high, with output amounting to
only one-tenth of total enrollment, as the following table shows:
Enrollment in Industrial Secondary Education, 1968
Total
Federal   State   Private      Enrollment   Output
Industrial ginasios         31        126       54          87,079       7,6u0
Industrial colegios         75         31       80          34,033       3,835
13.      ?Many industrial colegios occupy the same premises as the indus-
trial 8iuasios, which will be phased out.  Most colegios work two or three
shifts (often including one slhift of in-service upgrading courses for
adults), yet they remain overcrowded. General subjects in the curriculum



APPENDIX I
Page     5
are prescribed but each colegio may develop its own technical subjects.
Teaching is chiefly by the lecture method and is too theoretical; good
laboratory teaching is practically non-existent, even in the sciences.
Award of an industrial colegio certificate requires completion of a
one-year training period in industry.
14.       At post-secondary level, about 3,400 students are enrolled in
the sub-professional three-year "operational engineers" program and
about 37,600 students are enrolled in four-year university-level engineer-
ing courses (equivalent to about 13.5% of total university enrollment).
Candidates for either of these courses must pass the university entrance
"vestibular" examination. In contrast to the overly theoretical university-
level course, where students are oriented more to management than to prac-
tical industrial work, the operational engineers courses (introduced into
the federal education structure in 1966 at the "Fonseca" Colegio in Rio,
with Ford Foundation assistance) are producing practically-oriented tech-
nicians who are in heavy demand for industry.
15.       On-the-job training takes place under the sponsorship of SENAI
(National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship) and PIPMOI (Intensive
Program for the Preparation of Industrial Labor). SENAI, which receives
support from industry through a 1% payroll tax, has trained some 700,000
school leavers (generally of secondary school age) since Lts inception in
1944, while the PIPMOI upgrading courses (begun in 1963) for skilled
workers, supervisors and technicians have reached about 100,000 adults.
The teachers for both of these courses are, almost without exception,
part-time.
16.       Teachers in the formal industrial education system are mostly
part-time and only some 15% have been trained as teachers (usually of
general subjects) at a Faculty of Philosophy. Qualified engineers from
local companies render valuable part-time service as technical teachers,
but most shop courses are taught by skilled workers without adequate
academic preparation. Very few of the practical subject teachers have
received any pedagogic training. Such training should be available at
the eight regional "Centers for Technical Education" established under
Federal law in 1966 and under the control of the Directorate of Industrial
Education in the Ministry of Education, but at present few such courses
are given. Two similar centers under the control of the Directorate of
Secondary Education are temporarily closed.
Agricultural Education and Training
17.       Enrollment in agricultural ginasios in 1968 waEs less than one-
half of 1% of total ginasio enrollment, while at the colegio level this
ratio was only three-quarters of 1%, as the following table shows:



APPENDIX I
Page     6
Federal or
University  State or               Total                No. of
Controlled Municipal Private Enrollment Output Teachers
Agricultural
ginasios          37         36         16       12,034    1,623       1,248
Agricultural
colegios          22         19          5         6,188    1,132        855
'@ 7    Under the Federal Government's reform program agricultural gloasios wIll
(< be phased out; orientation courses will be provided in polyvalexxt ginasios,
and secondary agricultural education will be concentrated at the colegio
level.
18.       Curricula have been academic rather than practical.  There is a
serious lack of appropriate facilities, laboratories, workshops, lihraries
and equipment and very few institutions possess adequately equipped and
stocked farms. Hardly any schools maintain adequate farm records. Enroll-
ments in many institutions are uneconomically small and selection of stu-
dents has been governed by criteria which have encouraged the enrollueit
of urban youth who have had no real interest in the agricultural side of
their curricula.
19.       Nearly all teachers are part-time and the quality of teaching is
very low. Various efforts have been made to introduce teacher traioiig
for agricultural teachers in Brazil but most have proved a faiLuxe. At
present the Rural Federal University of Brazil (near Rio) offers a four-
year course in agricultural education (content and pedagogy) but enroll-
ments are small and are declining; a similar center attached to the Rural
University of Pernambuco is temporarily closed, while the University of
Porto Alegre offers courses, with very linited enrollments, of 1 1/2 years'
duration only. However, short in-service teacher training courses have
been provided from time to time in various parts of the country.
20.       In 1968 both enrollment (8,110) and output (1,487) in unirersikty
level agriculture courses were greater than the correpeaiding figures at
coleg v-1-yel; about 50% of agricultural colegiofgraduate --go to tbe
university,  Witl cer'Tan notable exceptions, Brazits university schools
of oagronomy and veterinary science have not kept up with modern edua-atina.
trends. They still maintain the traditional emphasis on the academic;
they have part-time staff and a rigid curriculum that involves heavy ciss-
room attendance with little time left over for pursuing independent work.
Secondary Teacher Training
21.       Legally all secoadary level teachers must he "licenciado" i.e.,
hold a license to teach, which is granted after a 2,400 hour, four-year
course with examination at a Faculty of Philosophy, Sciences and Letters,



APPENDIX I
Page     7
which exists in all states. Enrollment in such courses has increased even
faster than general university enrollments and reached 75,000 in 1968.
However, many of those enrolled dropped out; in recent years the annual
output of such faculties has been only one-fourth of the increase in the
number of secondary teachers, and'large numbers of those graduating do
not teach. In practice schools recruit the best local, normally part-time
personnel available. After a year's teaching (and a short course of
instruction in many cases) an examination called the "suficiencia" is
taken; if successful, the candidate becomes accepted as a fully qualified
teacher after teaching for two further years. Despite the legal require-
ments most teachers have neither "suficiencia" nor "licenciado" qualifica-
tions. Some states have begun their own programs for training secondary
teachers or upgrading their skills, although this is a federal responsi-
bility. The existence of a largely unqualified teaching force is accepted
as unavoidable, and emergency short courses to meet immediate needs, given
by university teachers under federal or state sponsorship, have come to
be regarded generally as adequate.
22.       The federal government has recognized that the e!stablishment of
polyvalent ginasios on a large scale will pose special problems, especially
regarding teachers of mathematics, science, and practical subjects, and
law-decrees have recently been passed authorizing shortened "emergency"
courses for such teachers. These are intended to consist of 1,600 hour
courses (60% content, 40% education techniques) for teachers of academic
subjects found to be in short supply. For practical subject teachers with-
out previous specialized training, the course will be of 1,600 hours (72%
content and 28% educational techniques) with a short course of 800 hours
(45% content and 55% techniques) for candidates with appropriate previous
experience. The long courses are intended to last one year, the shorter
ones six months, but curricula have not yet been worked out. The courses
of an academic nature will be given by university teachers either in the
university concerned or in a school, while the practical subject courses
will be given by suitably qualified personnel in a technical institute or
agricultural colegio, as appropriate. Teachers completing courses will
be given an "intermediate" license to teach at ginasio level only. Teachers
for the polyvalent ginasios financed by USAID will be traiLned under the
provisions of this new law-decree.
23.       While the former four-year training course for lower secondary
teachers may well be too long, it is unlikely that this can be reduced to
one year or less without adverse effects on the quality oi the teacher.
In particular, secondary teachers may in the future need :Longer training
if traditional rote learning methods are to be replaced by modern, student-
oriented techniques. In the long run, no lasting country-wide improvement
in teacher quality will be possible without adequate rewards for full-time
teaching staff and systematic training in properly built, equipped and
staffed permanent institutions.



APPENDIX I
Page     8
Higher Education
24.       This is the fastest growing segment of the education system;
enrollments reached about 278,000 in 1968 (a 30% increase over 1r67),
equivalent to 4% of the estimated 18-21 age group of 7 million. ihIwever,
less than one-half of the colegio graduates who apply 'soceed in -estering
a university immediately. The flow of students through the sys-taaitIs mnuch
better than that for primary and secondary; about three-quarters of thAse
entering a university course graduate.  Enrollments are cmoentrated in
philosophy (28%), law (19%),' engineering (14%), busines-s  dmilAistration
(13%) and medicine (9%).  Because the universities verte origivaally -reated
by uniting separate 'faculdades', there is a wi4espread -licatesn 'of
courses with individual entrance examinations to separate faeultite, for
some of which there is excessive competition while for others there is
too little.



APPENDIX II
Page      1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A.   Operational Engineers Centers and Agricultural Colegios
The proposed technical assistance program for the above project
items would consist of the following man years of experts and fellow-
ships (numbers in parentheses indicate man years).
(a) Agricultural education (4)
An expert in planning and supervision at the upper secondary level
to assist in administration, educational facilLties planning and
implementation of the new curricula.
(b) Operational engineers centers (13)
One chief of group for a period of three years to coordinate
the specialists and to provide liaison between the Director of
Operational Engineering Programs and the Project Unit; five
specialists for two man years each to function as advisors to
the respective Directors of Operational Engineers Centers at
Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Recife, Salvador and Sao Paulo.
(c) Agricultural education (6)
Fellowships for eight graduate agronomists to take a nine-month
course in the planning and administration of agricultural edu-
cation at upper secondary level.
B.   Education Sector Survey (4)
See paras. 3.16-3.17.



TIM~ SCHEDULIE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANE IMMADWNTATION
Year          Fi rst      Second         Third       Fourth         Fifth
Implementation :*
Quarter    1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4 :1  2  3  4;  1  2  3  1
Agricultural Education
Planning Advisor                   XX   X X X X    X X X X    X X X X    X X
Orerational Engineers
Program
Chief of group                     XX   X X X X   X X X X   X X
Curriculum specialists (5)                X  X  X  X    X  X  X  X
Fellowship rs
Graduate agronomists                               1   X X
* The implementation starts froa loan agreement signing.
Each X covers the enti* quarter to wh-ieh it refers.
H1      <
k



BRAZIL - Federal Education Budget, 1969 and 1970
Current Prices
(000 N.Cr.)    6
1969 Actual 1/                                         1970 Estimates 1/
Recurrent      Capital       Total       Percent          Recurrent       Capital       Total       Percent
HigBh level education                  504,010        177,950      681,960        62.1           563,679        177,950      741,629        57.4
Technical education                     51,740         31,290       83,030         7.6            64,084         31,287       95,371         7.4
Commercial education                     6,275            835        7,110         0.6             8,105            833        8,938         0.7
Agricultural education                  21,245          1,925       23,170         2.1            25,259          1,926       27,185         2.1
Primary and secondary education        126,950        109,035      235,985        21.5           222,689        109,033       331,722        25.7
Other education and training            58,720          7,920       66,640         6.1            80,427          7,918       88,345         6.7
Grand Total                            768,940        328,955    1,097,895 9/   100.0            964,243         328,947    1,293,190 3/   loO.0
70%           30%         100%                           74.6%          25.4%          100%
A/ auministration costs are included for each level but not separately shown.
v   Equivalent to about $270 million
J/ Equivalent to about $285 million



BREZ6U
Existing and Prujected Enrollment in Project Agricultural Colegios
The Project
Future
Controlling        Existing   Enrollment   Additional        of which
State          Name of Institution           Authority        Enrollment    Total         Places      post secondary
Para           Colegio Agricola de       Federal Ministry         66          300          234              60
Manoel Barata, Ico-       of Education and
araci, Belemn             Culture
I/
Pernambuco(-   Colegio Agricola de        Federal Ministry         -          300           300              60
Belo Jardim               of Education and
Culture
Sergipe        Colegio Agricola de       Federal Ministry        201          300            99             60
hEnjamin Constant,        of Education and
Qaissama                  Culture
Sao Paulo-     Colegio Agricola de        Sao Paulo Govt.          _          300          3P°              60
Jundiai
Rio Grande     Colegio Agricola de       University of             _          420          420              60
do Sal        Sta. Maria                 Santa Maria
Rio Grande-    Colegi.o Agricola de       University of            -          300           300              60
do Sul        Frederico Westphalen       Santa Maria
Goias          Colegio Agricola de        Federal Ministry        64          300           236              60
Rio Verde                 of Education and
Culture
Federal        Colegio Agricola de        Federal Ministry       149          420           271              60
District       Planaltina, Brazilia       of Edacation and
Culture
1/  partially constructed colegios, but not in operation.                    ,



BRAZIL
OEPATING ENGINEERS CENTERS
PROJECTED COURSES AND ENROLLMENTS
Programs                      Belo Horizonte   Curitiba   Recife  Rio de Janeiro    Salvador    Sao Paulo   TOTALS
Data Processing                                                            X                             X
Builhing Construction                               X
Electrical Power                    X               X          X           X               X             X
Electronics                         X               X          X           X                             X
Electro Mechanical                                                                         X
Highway Construction                X
Industrial Chemistry                X                                                      X
Industrial Production                               X                                      X              X
Mechanical                  I       X                          X           X               X
Mechanical Design                                                                                        x
Refrig. and Air Conditioning                        X          X           X                             X
Teacher Training                                                           X
Enrollments at Capacity             600            600        480         720             600           720         3,720
Estimated Annual Output             165          165          110         200             160            200        1,000
--T-           i    40           60              5c)          ~~60         -1
Teaching and Admin. Staff            50                                    6 54                                       310
I.~~~~~~~~~1 



BE   L - 3EIl0awwr
Sitt Devel    t           E     ;              PFtriire         ELmu"f                              CBS Tcicea ASiaUc.                et, UnitT
Local  ~~Lo~.                             Fr*igp      Local      3Y  oal                                 FrJg L            7~      gn         Total
Allovences for
S,GS  brsc    t  o.o3  10.oS         o10.0%      15.0%     10.0%      15.0%      n.a        n. a.       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Wr t       -           (combined for           (combined)
cm asntitiee,            local and 
Alllowancels for 
pRena Mcrare               7.5%                 10.0%           14.o%      15.0%      10.0%      15.C$     10%.       n.a.        n.a.      n.a.       5.0%       5.0%
3 C sneri;S Rfee~(eombied')               (CuAaed
1 rncre=e  ,  
Total                       17.5X                 20.0%           20.0%      30.0%      20.0%      30.0%     10.0%      n,.         n.a.      n.a.       5.0%       5.0%        22.8%
(combined)           (comwood)                         _   ___,__                                                                        _
Total coSt before
Conti,yrie             915.2    28.3       7,551.2    233.5    1,J448.1    76.2       3,180.5   1,712.6   664.6         0         134.8    640.2       476.8       11.7       17,073.7
conting¢neiea           160.3      5.o      1,510.1     46.7       383.8    20.2       1,086.0     584.8    65-4         0           0         0         23.14       o.6        3,886.3
Tot.4, including
coi4eincies          1,075.5    33.3       9,061.3    280.2    1,831.9    96.1,       4,266.5   2,297.4   730.0         0         134.8    614o.2      500.2      12.3        20,960.0
(IIS tiousands)



BRAZIL EDIIATION PRDJECT
} LLhBF -MCAPCIY AND AREAS EQUIRED
IAreas in Square Heters)
Farom
Emoilnent           Academie & Communal               Boardiz!                  Staff Housirz        Brildin,
Item                                                                  Total New  Area per  No. of    Total New  Area per    1N. or    Totl  New   Total              Total
No.      Location                  Code   Existing   New    Total       Area    Stiud en   Boarders     Area    Stai.it    New Houses       Area        Area         Area
AGRICULTURAL COLEGIOS
A-1  R. Barata/Belem, Para           E         66     234     300       2,318     N.A.        300       1,720      N.A.         12          1,260       1,385        6,683
A-2  Belo Jardim, Pernambuco         E                300      300      2,100     N.A.        300        1,690     N.A.         10          1,00        2,480       7,350
A-3  Quissama, Sergipe               E        201      99      300      1,410     N.A.        300       1,690      N.A.          1            140        1,860       5,100
A-4 Jundiai, Sao Paulo               E                300     300       1,980     N.A.        300        2,700     9.0            9           920        1,210       6,810
A-5  Santa Maria, Rio Grande do S.  N                 420     420       3,886     9.3         420        3,130     7.5          13          1,400        2,690      11,106
A-6  F. Westphalen, Rio Grande
do S.       E                300      300        600     N.A.         300         760     N.A.          13         1,400          775        3,535
A-7  Planaltina, Federal District   E         149     271     420         820     N.A.        420          840     N.A.         14          1,440        3,290       6,390
A-8  Rio Verde, Goias                E         64     236     300       2,000     N.A.        300        2,400     8.0           12         1,260        1.883       7,543
Total Agricultiral Colegios              480   2.160   2,640      15,1114    N.A.      2,640      14,930                    84         8.900       15,573      54,517
INDDSTRIAL COLEIOS
B-1  Beles, Para                     E      1,050   1,100   2,150       4,364     N.A.                                            1            90                    4,454
B-2  Campos, Rio de Janeiro          E        440   1,350   1,790       2.647     N.A.                                            1            90                    2,737
Total Indwtrial Colegios               1,490   2,450   3,940       7,011     N.A.                                            2           180                    7,191
OPERATIONAL ENGINERaING
C-1 Recife, Pernambuco              N                 480     480       4,485     N.A.                                                                               4,485
C-2  Salvador, Bahia                N                 600     600       4,630     N.A.                                                                               4,630
C-3 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais   N                  600     600       4,740     N.A.                                                                                4,740
C-4 Rio de Janeiro, Gdanabara        E        400     320     720       4,630     N.A.                                                                               4,630
c-c  Sao Puo, Sao Paulo             N                 720     720       7,o58     N.A.                                                                               7,058
C-6  Curitiba, Parana               N                 600     600       4,320     N.A.                                                                                4,320
Total Operational Ehineering             400   3.320   3,720      29,863                                                                                       29,863
aRAND TOTAL                                           10,294      51,988               2,640       14,930                   86         9,080       15,573      91,571
Code:  E - Extension
N - New



ANNFX 6
HERAZIL
ESTVICTIM SCHEDULES OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBUNTS
(in US dollars equivalent)
AccwmLlated    UndiLsbursed
Ib tzres   DIsqrgeenat8s    Disbursements         B;Lance
1                                             0          83844,000
2          160,700                            0          8,384,OOO
3          351,600         641,000          614,000Q      &,32,000
4          388,200        140,000          204,000       8, 180 000
5          838,100       155,000           359,000       8,025,00
6        1,182,000        335,000          694,000       7,S6% 000
7        1,182,000        475,000        1,169,000       7,45,,000
8        1,305,200        475,000        1,644,oo0       6,74A,000
9        2,817,800        522,000        2,166,000       6,21o,000
10        2,817,800      1,126,000        3,292,000       5,092,000
11        2,817,800      1,127,000        4,419,000       3,965,000
12        1,894,700      1,127,000        5,546,000       2,838,000
13        1,894,700        757s,000       6,303,000       2,Oal,000
14        1,412,200        757,000        7,060,000       1,52o,000
15          948,600        565,000        7,625,000         759,000
16          632,400        379,000        8,004,000         3a0,000
17          316,200        253,000        8.,257,000        127,000
18                         127,000        8,3844,000          0



CHART I
BRAZIL-STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 1969
(BEFORE INTRODUCTION OF POLYVALENT GINASIOS)
PRE-
--PRIMARY   Z          PRIMARY--   -              MIDDLE LEVEL EDUCATION ----             -HIGHER LEVEL EDUCATION- -
EDUCATION          EDUCATION
OPERATIONAL ENGINEERS
JOURNALISM,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
LIBRARY SCIENCE
NURSING, NUTRITION,
LOWER CYCLE          UPPER CYCLE              PHILOSOPHY, SCIENCE
(GINASIO)           (COLEGIO)               AND LETTERS (lst DEGREE)
ACCOUNTING, ACTUARIAL &
GENERAL                                      ECONOMIC SCIENCES,
GENERAL SCIENCE SUBJECTS
PHILOSOPHY SCIENCE & LETTERS
NORMAL (TEACHER TRAINING) 3/                 (LICENCIADO - GENERAL
MIDDLE LEVEL TEACHERS)
SOCIAL STUDIES & SERVICES              A
2/    TECHNICAL - INDUSTRIAL 4/                     S5ASJ       .   e 
TECHNICAL - AGRICULTURAL                     ARCHITECTURE
1   2    3                          ENGINEERING
TECHNICAL - COMMERCIAL                       PSYCHOLOGY
FINE ARTS (3-6 YEAR COURSE)
MEDICINE
AGRONOMY
VETERINARY MEDICINE                    B
YEARS OF AGE 1/
4    5    6    7    8    9    10         11  12  13  14   15  16   17                       18   19   20   21   22   23
KEY TO SYMBOLS                                            NOTES
O ENTRANCE EXAMINATION TO SECONDARY EDUCATION             1/ THE AGE GROUP RELATIONSHIP APPLIES ONLY WHEN STUDENTS ENTER
* SECONDARY LEAVING EXAMINATION                              PRIMARY SCHOOL AT 7 AND DO NOT REPEAT A CLASS, GENERALLY
* FACULTY EXAMINATIONS FOR UNIVERSITY ENTRANCE               STUDENTS ARE OLDER.
A UNIVERSITIES AND SEPARATE FACULTIES                    2/ IN SOME STATES A FIFTH AND SIXTH YEAR OF PRIMARY EDUCATION IS
B RURAL UNIVERSITIES AND INSTITUTIONS                       OFFERED, FOLLOWING WHICH STUDENTS ENTER GINASIO SECOND GRADE.
3/ IN SOME STATES THE NORMAL COLEGIO COURSE EXTENDS OVER FOUR YEARS.
4/ THE TECHNICIANS' COURSE EXTENDS OVER FOUR YEARS, THE LAST YEAR
CONSISTING OF SUPERVISED INTERNSHIP IN INDUSTRY.
IBRD - 5057 (R)






CHART 2
BRAZIL- NEW STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
(AFTER INTRODUCTION OF POLYVALENT GINASIOS)
PRE-
PRIMARY--v---- -  PRIMARY                     MIDDLE LEVEL EDUCATION -          -     -HIGHER LEVEL EDUCATION           am
EDUCATION          EDUCATION
OPERATIONAL ENGINEERS
JOURNALISM,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
lIBRARY SCIENCE,
NURSING, NUTRITION,
PHILOSOPHY, SCIENCE
LOWER CYCLE           UPPER CYCLE             AND LETTERS (lst DEGREE)
(GINASIO)            (COLEGIO)               * { 3 {           f
ACCOUNTING, ACTUARIAL &
GENERAL                  ECONOMIC SCIENCES,
1    2    3      ~~~DENTISTRY,
GENERAL SCIENCE SUBJECTS,
PHILOSOPHY, SCIENCE & LETTERS
POLYVALENT         NORMAL2/                  (LICENCIADO - GENEPRAL
OR          -o -o -m -                    MIDDLE LEVEL TEACHERS)
MULTILATERAL                                 SOCIAL STUDIES & SERVICES              A
GINASIO          INDUSTRIAL 3/  
AGRICULTURAL 4/           ARCHITECTURE
ENGINEERING
LAW
COMMERCIAL                PHILOSOPHY
MULTILATERAL 5/ 
L-' 1 I -- 2 Li 3 )--'  FINE ARTS (3-6 YEAR COURSE)
'          a r , 2      MEDICINE
AGRONOMY
VETERINARY MEDICINE                    B
YEARS OF AGE 1/
4    5    6    7    8   9    10          11  12  13   14         15  16  17                     18   19   20   21   22   23
KEY TO SYMBOLS                                               NOTES
O ENTRANCE EXAMINATION TO SECONDARY                          1/ THE AGE GROUP RELATIONSHilP APPLIES ONLY WHEN
EDUCATION. TO BE PHASED OUT.                                  STUDENTS ENTER PRIMARY SCHOOL AT 7 AND DO NOT
* POSSIBLE FUTURE EXAMINATION FOR                               REPEAT A CLASS.
ENTRY TO COLEGIO.                                          2/ IN SOME STATES THE NORMAL COLEGIO COURSE
* SECONDARY LEAVING EXAMINATION                                 WILL EXTEND OVER FOUR YEARS.
* FACULTY EXAMINATIONS FOR UNIVERSITY ENTRANCE               3/ THE TECHNICIANS' COURSE EXTENDS OVER FOUR
A UNIVERSITIES AND SEPARATE FACULTIES                           YEARS, THE LAST YEAR CONSISTING OF SUPERVISED
B RURAL UNIVERSITIES AND INSTITUTIONS                           INTERNSHIP IN INDUSTRY.
4/ A TERMINAL FOURTH YEAR WILL BE PROVIDED FOR
AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIANS.
5/ NO DECISIONS HAVE YET BEEN MADE REGARDING THE
INTRODUCTION OF MULTILATERAL TYPE COLEGIOS.
IBRD - 5058 (R)






BRAZIL                                                  CHART 3
ENROLLMENTS BY LEVEL
AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 1968
AND INCREASE
OVER 1964 ENROLLMENTS
ALL LEVELS
DISTRIBUTION OF ENROLLMENT
ENROLLMENT        YEARS   % INCREASE                                           MIDDLE LEVEL EDUCATION, BY
AS % OF           OF       OVER 1964                                           TYPES AND BRANCHES, 1968
AGE GROUP         STUDY   ENROLLMENT
2,500,000
15    73          33,092
l            l                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2, 318,456  2,007,201
HIGHER              14    87          44,506               2,000,000
LEVEL
(40/.)        ~1 3    96          60,781
1 2   120          94,090              1,500,0C                            
11    84             190,347
10   82              247,572 1,
9    82              363,1 53            500,000           3463382,058
13.4%                                                                                   121,1
MIDDLE                                                                                               8709 18222
LEVEL              8    69                374,294                               6281 25  0                   1,34
(21.4%)  U     7    70                479,988                  ~~A% 
6    6I5 627,106
0
-J 
26.7%     5    629226
PRIMARY             3     2                               ,2,6
(116%)
1    1 1                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,692,105
MILLIONS OF PUPILS
IBRD -5059






BRAZIL EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION-EXPENDITURES -DISBURSEMENTS
SIGNING DATE                                                                                                                                           CLOSING DATE -
YEEAR        ___         YEAR I                            YEAR 2                            YEAR 3                            YEAR 4                   YEAR 
ACTIVITY   ~         T L                          11       1                                                                                         -
I       2       3        4       5       6        7       8        9       10      II1     12       13       14      1        16      17       18
-.    -   I                                                    I i                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.001  09
SURVEY AND PREPARATION OF SITES                                                                                                         I I20.64
-    I  -   f  I                                                4 4                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19.06
ADMINISTRATION AND1.6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                        I       IT TII/.I                         IIIII
PROGRAMMING AND ARCHITECTS' BRIEFS-5-7-
PRELIMINARY DESIGN-13.86.                                                                                                                                         --  
CUMULATIVE EXPENDITURES
DESIGN DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                       11.04      (IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
~-EQUIVALENT)
PREPARATION OF FURNITURE-  
AND EQUIPMENT LISTS                                                                                              8 -2-218.00                                                         8.26     8.38
WORKING DRAWINGS                                                       -j70 
ANDCOSTUCIONI-   DO fCUCIIAENTS                                                                                                                 6.30       1I
5.40       1                                       CUULTIEDSBRSMET
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                        CUINMILLTIONEO DOLLARSMNS
BID DOCUMENTS                                                                                                                     4.2(N   ILON    FDOLR
_____________________________                                            ~~~~~ ~~~~~4.10                                                EQUIVALENT)
TENDERS AND AWARD CONTRACTS                           -       -2164                                              2.I ]               2          
CONSTRUCTION, FURNISHING                                                                                 1 1 0.0DEFECT AND LIABILITY
AND EQUIPPING                                         0.16    0.5
0.06
IBRD - 5384(2R)






EDUCATION PROJECT
i    V  E N E Z U f E A   :/   !        r_              !         <                                                                                            PROJECT  iTEMS
9 > T. SURINM                                                  VFRetH                                                                         ,8CITIES  STATES
o  0 M B A                                                                                                                                  a~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AGRICULTURAL COLEGIOS
C O t O M 3 t A    )   t  o  a°AVIiTA/4;JYANA5+    _   j   J  \                                                         1  M.                        Pord
2.  Solo Jordio             Fero-b.co
w ,Jv /s \S.t ' ~~~~~~~~Al                                     P      A                                                                                   3    . Qt ri eip
I  ra                                                                    4  ~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J.ndi.  sao Po.oIo
Sorb Mo,no              R. G. do Sri
6 F. Wlerplolo            Il. G. do SoJ
7.  ploir                  Fod-nl Di.ftlcb
S.   Rio V.,do              Coiao
\    INDUSTRIAL COLEGIOS
uo kv.5                                  ~~~~~~~~~9.  Weld            Pb,6
A            R            A110.  Coopos                                                                                      Ri,  d J- iro
A    OPERATIONAL ENGINEERING
11.  RocI                 Por-ooo-
2.  0oo -orzod           Min.. Gerois
A                                                                              I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERSN A               13.  Rio do Joneir        Cuo-bhor
1AAL   4.  S- ol                 o  ol
16.  Soodo      ?         od,  o
_\STATES SELECTED FOR
FNIVAEMdER00EDUCATION SECTOR SURVEY
RIO 00400
,9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00.2"~§~.
-W              ~~BRAZtL
EDUCATION PROJECT
-- -SNote bondares0
PDPULArioN   DENSITY                                                                                                                       1
Inhabitants per sqoorelsdooeler:
HE   o- Too                                                       i
0   BO  M0  300 400  0
200 ~  ~     T  OIL0ER                                                                                                                                                             3000 R UA
NOVEMDER 1970                                                                                                                                                                      IRED 3044R



