Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P 7344 BUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 18 MILLION
TO BURKINA FASO
NOVEMBER 9,1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                      CFA Franc
US$1                                               CFA 624 (as of 11/08/1999)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO                 Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Occidentale
SGB                   Societe Generale des Banques
BIB                   Banque Internationale du Burkina
BND-B                 Banque Nationale de D6veloppement du Burkina
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CET                    Common External Tariff
CGP                    Caisse Generale de Perequation
CNDP                   Comite National de la Dette Publique
CNEA                   Caisse Nationale de l'Epar gne Agricole
COMIKI                 Compagnie Miniere de Kiere
CSPS                   Centre de Sante et de Promotion Sociale
CSSPA                  Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricoles
EMRSO                  Economic Management Reform Support Operation
ESAF                   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
HIPC                   Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR                    Implementation Completion Report
IFC                   International Financial Corporation
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
INB                    Imprimerie Nationale du Burkina
MIGA                   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MTEF                   Medium Term Expenditure Framework
ONATEL                 Office National des T6lecommunication
ONAVET                 Office National des Intrants Zootechniques etVeterinaires
PER                   Public Expenditure Review
PFP                   Policy Framework Paper
PID                   Public Institutional Development
RNTCX9                Regie Nationale des Transports en Commun X9
SAC                    Structural Adjustrnent Credit
SECAL                  Sectoral Adjustment Loan
SGBB                   Societe Generale des Banques du Burkina
SHG                    Soci6te des H6tels de la Gare
SINAC                  Societ de l'Industrie de la Chaussure
SLM                    Societe de Lo cation de Materiel
SNTB                   Societe Nationale de Transit du Burkina
SOBEMA                 Societe Burkinab6 d'Emaillerie
SOCOGIB                Societe de Construction et de Gestion Immobiliere du Burkina
SOFITEX                Societe des Fibres et Textiles du Burkina
SOFIVAR                Societe de Financement de la Vulgarisation de l'Arachide
SONACAB               Societe Nationale des Carreaux du Burkina
SONACIB                Societe Nationale du Cinema du Burkina
SONACOR                Soci6te Nationale de Decorticage et de Conditionnement du Riz
SOPAL                  Societe de Production d'Alcool
SOSUCO                 Societe Sucriere de la Comoe
SYGASPE                Systeme de Gestion des Agerits et du Personnel de l'Etat
SYSCOA                 Systeme Comptable Ouest Af:ricain
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
VAT                    Value Added Tax
WAEMU                  West African Economic and Monetary Union
WAMU                   West African Monetary Union
Vice-President                 J ean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director          : Hasan Tuluy
Resident Representative   : Manga Kuoh
Sector Manager            : Charles P. Humphreys



BURKINA FASO
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ........................I
1. INTRODUCTION ................                                  ,.1
2. BACKGROUND .................                                                        .1
A.    HISTORICAL AND POLITICAL BACKGROUND .........................................................                   1
B.    THE ECONOMY .........................................................1
C.    POVERTY  AND  LIVING  STANDARDS .........................................................2
3.    BURKINA  FASO'S REFORM  PROGRAM  .                                 ........................................................3
A.   RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS .........................................................3
B.  DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND REGIONAL INTEGRATION ..............................5
C.  MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ................................7
4.    BANK  GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA  FASQ ......................................................... 8
AND  COLLABORATION  WITHI DONORS ..........................................................8
5. THE PROPOSED  OPERATION .........................................................                                   10
A. LINKS WITH  THE CAS AND  RATIONALE FOR THE CREDIT .                                      ......................................... 10
B. CREDIT COMPONENTS ........................................................                                       12
C.    SPECIFIC ACTIONS REQUIRED  FOR THIS CREDIT ....................................................... 15
D.   LOOKING AHEAD .........................................................                                        16
6.     CREDIT FEATURES AND  IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................                     17
7.   RECOMMENDATION ........................................................                                            18
Annexes
A. Income and Social Indicators
B. Key Economic Indicators
C. External Financing Requirements and Resources, 1996-2002
D. Operations Portfolio
E. Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
F. The Policy Matrix
G. Burkina Faso at a Glance
H. Letter of Development Policy






BURKINA FASO
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:              Burkina F'aso
Beneficiaries:         Population of Burkina Faso
Amount:                 IDA Credit: SDR 18 million ($25 mnillion)
Terms:                 IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Program Description:    The proposed Structural Adjustmnent Credit (SAC) is an integral
part of the Bank's strategy to help Burkina Faso consolidate
recent gains in macroeconomic management and to move
beyond stabilization to deeper structural reforms and sustained
economic growth. This one-tranche operation, which is fully
consistent with the new Country Assistance Strategy under
preparation, would be the second in a series of such operations
to support a reform program aimed at: (i) enhancing the
competitiveness of the economy to substantially raise growth
rates over the medium term and alleviate poverty; (ii)
improving public finance management, particularly with regard
to tax policy and the use of public resources; and (iii)
completing the third phase of the common external tariff (CET)
adopted by the West African Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU) on January 1, 2000.
Benefits:               The reforms supported by this operation, especially tax and
trade reform, are essential to  create an environment
conducive to efficient private sector investment and growth.
Public finance reform and regional integration would benefit
Burkina Faso's growth over the medium and long-term by:
(i) improving the Government's resource mobilization
system; (ii) stimulating private investment flows and external
trade; (iii) improving efficiency and productivity; and (iv)
providing Burkina Faso's economic agents with free access
to the significantly larger WAEMU market. By reallocating
public funds toward priority activities in health and education,
the reforms would further strengthen the country's growth
potential while helping correct underlying factors that
contribute to Burkina Faso's deep poverty.
Risks:                  Burkina Faso's adjustmnent record since the 1996 CAS has been
steady, but progress in some areas such as privatization, trade
liberalization, civil service reform and decentralization has been



ii
slow. Govemment commitment to economic reform and
poverty reduction has increased over the past three years, as
evidenced by the successful implementation of the ESAF and
the pievious adjustment operation (EMRSO). However, there is
a risk that the reform program could falter because of pressures
from vested interests and persistent institutional weaknesses. To
testify, to its determination, the Government has already taken a
number of upfront actions and has already started implementing
the reforms programmed for 1999-2002. There will be no Board
discussion until all actions underpinning this credit are taken.
Estimated
Disbursements:           SDR I 8 million would be released at credit effectiveness.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO BURKINA FASO
1. INTRODUCTION
1.  I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on the proposed Third
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) to Burkina Faso for SDR 18 million, an amount
equivalent to US$25 million, on standard IDA terms. The credit is an integral part of the Bank's
strategy to help Burkina Faso consolidate recent gains in macroeconomic management and to
move beyond stabilization to deeper structural reforms and sustained economic growth. The
credit is proposed as a second one-tranche operation to support a reform program aimed at: (i)
enhancing the competitiveness of the economy to substantially raise growth rates over the medium
term and alleviate poverty; (ii) improving public finance management, particularly with regard to tax
policy and the use of public resources; and (iii) completing the third phase of the common external
tariff (CET) adopted by the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) on January 1,
2000.
2. BACKGROUND
A. HISTORICAL AND POLiTICAL BACKGROUND
2.   Burkina Faso is a poor landlocked country with a limited resource base, high vulnerability to
external shocks, and acute social needs. T'he rainfall is limited-averaging 350mm in the North and
1000 mm in the South-West. In the mid-l 980s, the state became the dominant actor in the economy
with heavy involvement in the productive sectors and generalized price and trade regulations.
During this period, the role of the state as a caretaker of the economy and provider of social services
became deeply ingrained in the population, its leadership, and the civil service. As a result, while
systemic political changes were initiated as early as 1988, the shift toward a more selective role of
the state and market-based policies started only in 1991 and has been gradual.
3.   Burkina Faso has enjoyed political stability since 1987 under the leadership of PresidentBlaise
Compaore. The country moved steadily toward political pluralism and has now organized several
multi-party elections: presidential (1991 and 1998), parliamentary (1992 and 1997), municipal
(1995). While last year's presidential election was an important step in the consolidation of the new
political system, the most significant socio-political changes are likely to come when the
decentralization and civil service reform laws adopted by Parliament in 1998 are fully implemented.
B. THE ECONOMY
4.   Burkina Faso's growth record over the past forty years has been uneven. After a steady growth
in the 1960s and 1970s, GDP declined during the first half of the 1980s. Growth resumed in the
second half of the 1980s, but fell short of population growth rates. The devaluation of the CFA Franc
in January 1994 re-established the competitiveness of the economy and triggered strong growth.
Economic growth has picked up since 1994 and was estimated at about 6.2% in 1998.



2
5.   Burkina Faso is a member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMIU) and
shares a common currency, the CFA Franc, and a central bank (BCEAO), withBenin, C6te d'Ivoire,
Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Guinea-Bissau. The CFA Franc has been pegged to the French
franc since 1948; the fixed parity was altered only once, in January 1994, when the CFA Franc was
devalued by 50 percent in foreign currency terms from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per French Franc.
Given Burkina Faso's narrow tax base and a structural Government budget deficit, and also the good
track record in managing public funds, the country has traditionally benefited from important
external aid flows (grants received have represented about 7.5 percent of GDP over the past five
years).
6.   The primary sector (39 percent of GDP in 1998) has experienced a remarkable growth of 17
percent in 1998, in spite of lower than expected cotton production. It is dominated by agriculture
which accounts for almost 50 percent of value added in the primary sector, while livestock accounts
for some 30 percent, and forestry and fishery for the remaining 20 percent. The secondary sector (18
percent of GDP) increased only modestly in 1998 (1.4 percent). However, in the mining sector, value
added is estimated to have increased by about 16 percent in 1998. The tertialy sector (43 percent of
GDP) grew by 2.6 percent in 1998.
C.  POVERTY AND LIING STANDARDS
7.   With a population of 1 1 million growing at about 2.8 percent per annum, Burkina Faso's real
GNP per capita was US$ 240 in 1998. EBy this measure of income, as well as on the basis of UNDP's
human poverty index, Burkina Faso is among the poorest countries in the world. Since 1994, real
GDP has increased on an average by 5.5 percent per annum. Yet, the incidence of poverty
increased by one percent (from 45 to 46 percent), while the poverty gap index' remained stable at
14 percent. Furthermore, the total nuinber of poor increased by nearly 14 percent. While the
incidence of poverty in rural areas declined slightly between 1994 and 1998 (from 51 to 50
percent), and poverty remains very much a rural problem in Burkina Faso (accounting for over
95% of national poverty), urban areas registered a substantial increase (from 10 to 16 percent)
during the same period.
8.   The most recent social and welfare indicators of Burkina Faso point to important disparities in
access to basic needs between regions and between poor and non poor. For instance, over 92 percent
of household heads in the Centre Nord region have no education, and only 1 percent have completed
primary education. Only 2.6 percent of the poor in Centre Nord have access to potable water
(compared to 78 percent of urban population and 6 percent in rural areas at national level).
9.   Social indicators of Burkina Faso are low, even by Sub-Saharan standards: life expectancy of
50 years, infant mortality of 98 per thousand, literacy rate of 22 percent, and gross primary
enrollment rate of 40 percent, with female only 30 percent. The low health status and education level
of the population constitute major constraints to economic and social development.
10.  RV/AIDS has become one of Burkina Faso's most serious development challenges. Burkina
Faso is currently one of the countries in WVest Africa most severely affected by HIV. Seroprevalence
I Average distance between the consumption of the poor and the poverty line expressed as a percentage of the
poverty line.



3
among the general population is estimated at 7 percent, while it reaches 13.1 percent among truck
drivers, 8.5 percent among pregnant women, 29 percent among persons infected with tuberculosis
and 23 percent among persons infected wi-th sexually transmitted diseases. The youth is particularly
affected by the infection and the number of AIDS cases among young people has increased from 3
percent in 1987 to an estimated 7 percent today. Women are also being increasingly infected. In
1988 women represented 25 percent of AIDS cases. Their proportion has increased to some 40
percent. Three quarters of those hospitalized for AIDS are of age 15 to 40.
3. BURKINA ]FASO'S REFORM PROGRAM
A. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
Stabilization
11. Burkina Faso has established over the past eight years a satisfactory track record and achieved
a good macroeconomic performance. In the real sector, the financial and structural measures that
accompanied the 1994 devaluation of the CFA Franc helped to strengthen the foundations for
economic expansion. In 1998, despite sorme decline in cotton production, from the record level of
1997, the rate of growth was 6.2 percent on account of a substantial increase in cereal production,
which was helped by better rainfall conditions than in 1997, higher public investment and an
expansion in private sector services. Inflationary trends were favorable during the period after the
initial price adjustment following the 1994 devaluation: annual average inflation was 4.5 percent
during 1996-98, slightly above the WAEMU average.
12.  The performance of Govemment finance in 1998 was consistent with program targets,
especially conceming revenue. Total revenue amounted to CFAF 199 billion (13.1 percent of GDP,
compared with a program's objective of 13 percent of GDP). On the expenditure side, current
expenditure remained in line with program projections. The overall fiscal deficit, on a commitment
basis, excluding grants, was 9.8 percent of GDP in 1998, against a projected ratio of 10.3 percent.
The current account deficit (excluding official transfers) improved slightly, but less than projected,
declining from 13.9 percent of GDP in 1997 to 13.8 percent in 1998, compared to 10.9 percent in the
program. Burkina Faso's deficits were financed with grants and concessional loans. On September
10, 1999, the IMF Board approved a three-year loan for Burkina Faso under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) in a total amount equivalent to SDR 39.12 million (about US$53.79
million) to support the Government's 1999-2002 economic program.
13.  The extemal debt policy has been prudent. The Government did not contract or guarantee on
any new extemal borrowing on non-concessional terms (except for normal short-term credits and
rescheduling loans). To this end, the Govemment has established the national public debt committee
(CNDP) which examines all new financing requests, and recommends all necessary measures to
avoid any accumulation of arrears. But despite the prudent debt management policy, the foreign debt
service of the stock of past debt of Burkina Faso is hardly sustainable over the medium and long
term. Indeed, balance of payment projections for the medium term indicate that the ratio of the net
present value of Burkina Faso debt to exports of goods and non factor services is expected to remain
significantly above the 200 percent benchmark for a number of years. For this reason, Burkina Faso
had requested assistance within the fram,ework of the HIPC initiative. This request was accepted by
the Board in November 1997 and the completion point has been set for April 2000. Burkina Faso is
committed to respecting its obligations set within the HIPC agreement framework (see Table 1). The



4
authorities have announced that the resources gained from debt relief will be entirely allocated to
social sectors.
Structural reforms
14.  Burkina Faso has made significant headway in its transition to a market-oriented economy,
including in the areas of trade, fiscal and public enterprise reforms as well as in the areas of social
policy and institutional development (see Table 2).
15.  Substantial external trade reforms began in 1993 with the consolidation of tariff rates into
three categories (11, 14 and 37 percent). Regulations on profit margins for imported goods were
removed; most price controls on locally produced goods were eliminated and remain in effect only
for rice, generic drugs, petroleum products, and utilities, which are still entrusted to public
monopolies. Govemment policy reforms have done much to correct the policy environment which
had distorted incentives markedly in favor of urban areas. Following up on the reforms of the early
1990s, a major tax reform was prepared in 1997 leading to the gradual entry into force of the
common external tariff (CET) of the WAEMU over the period July 1998-January 2000. The new
customs tariff provides for a simplified structure of four rates (0, 5, 10, and 20 percent) plus a
statistical tax of 1 percent.
16.  A comprehensive civil service reform was approved by Parliament in April 1998, including a
new wage and salary scale for permanent civil servants and contractual personnel, which was
introduced in January 1999. This new wage scale contains a larger number of steps, as well as a
broader range of pay levels. Promotion between steps is to be based on performance. A large part of
the civil service positions are to be held by staff under a contractual regime, except for those
involving key policy and sovereignty functions; this should allow much larger flexibility in allocating
staff, including on a regional basis, and improve overall efficiency.
17.  In recent years, the banking system has been restructured, including (i) the privatization
and recapitalization of all main banks, the bulk of which have come under the control of foreign
banks; (ii) the entry into operation of two new banks; and (iii) the completion of the liquidation
of the development bank BND-B. This restructuring has led to increased competition and a
decline in interest rate spreads.
18.  The implementation of the first two phases of the privatization program, launched
respectively in 1991 and 1994, is now close to completion (see Table 3). During 1991-99, 27
enterprises were totally-or partially-privatized, representing a total turnover of 8 percent of GDP;
total proceeds amounted to about CFAF 12 billion, equivalent to 0.8 percent of the 1998 GDP. In
mid-1998 a new phase was formulated, focusing on public utilities and the cotton sector. Progress
has been made in initiating this third phase. Parliament adopted in December 1998 a law liberalizing
the telecommunications sector, which provides for selling part of the Government's shares in the
telephone company (ONATEL), establishing a regulatory authority, and opening up the
telecommunications sector to private investors. Steps have been taken to bring the shares to sale by
end-November 1999 (see below). The Government also approved in December 1998 a law designed
to open up the electricity sector to private investors.
19.  In the rural sector, reforms under the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
liberalized trade and prices of traditional cereals and livestock. Progress was made in recent years



5
in completing the liberalization ofthe sugar market, and in restructuring the cotton sector. In 1998,
the Government decided to sell 30 percent of the cotton company's (SOFITEX) capital to the cotton
producers' association (effective April 1999), and an interprofessional agreement was concluded
between the Government and the producers' association, effective February 1999. Under this
agreement, half of the company's profits are to be allocated to the farmers in the form of supplements
to the cotton purchase price. However, the rice subsector is still subject to state intervention.
B. DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES AND REGIONAL INTEGRATION
Four Constraints on the Economy
20.  To meet the challenging objectives of reducing poverty and increasing per capita income in
rural areas where most of the population live, the authorities need to tackle four major constraints oin
the economy:
(i) Large social deficit, low labor productivity, and high unemfloyment. Burkina Faso's
population density is the highest in the Sahel (40 inhabitants per kmi), which contributes to the
high incidence of poverty. With close to half the population under the age of 15, rapid population
growth (2.8 percent) is not likely to diminish in the near term. Such high population growth rates
will put a strain on extremely limited water resources, and already much of the population has no
access to clean water. Moreover, Burkina Faso has among the lowest gross primary school
enrollment rates in sub-Saharan Africa: 44 percent for boys and 28 percent for girls. Similarly,
the health of the population is poor with life expectancy at birth reaching only 50 years and
nearly 60 percent of the population not meeting the minimum health requirements. On the basis
of UNDP's human development index, Burkina Faso ranks 172t among 174 developing
countries and according to various growth accounting studies Burkina Faso's labor productivity
is one of the lowest in West Africa. Estimates of the unemployment rates across the 45 provinces
of the country are high-about 20 percent in Ouagadougou, the capital city.
(ii) Poor economic infrastructure, high input costs, and limited size of the modern private sector.
Competition for new export markets is especially dependent on access to an adequate supply of
reliable and competitively priced infrastructure services. Yet, the relatively poor quality and high
costs of infrastructure in Burkina Faso-including power, transport, telecommunication, and water-
reduces the likelihood that private entrepreneurs, domestic and foreign, will increase their investment
in response to policy reforms. Furthermore, the size of the modem private sector is limited. Burkina
Faso has a large informal sector of some 90,000 micro-enterprises that contributes 32 percent of GDP
and accounts for 70 percent of non-agricultural employment. The informal sector contributes more
than 50 percent of value added in certain industries. The formal sector that contributes 40 percent of
GDP only employs 2 percent of the workforce. It comprises a rather large number of very small
enterprises (about 6,300 enterprises accounting for 25 percent of GDP) and only 42 enterprises-
excluding the 37 public enterprises-wit]h more than 50 employees. More disturbing is the low public
confidence in the equity and efficiency of the tax system: tax rates are high on the small modern
sector, as illustrated by the importance of tax exemptions and tax evasion.
(iii) Institutional capacity. As Burkina Faso embarked in economic reforms in the early 1990s, it
became apparent that a number of institutional arrangements and the national capacities were not
adequate to transform the state machinery to respond to the demands of a liberalized economic and
political system. Burkina Faso institutional reforms have been supported by the donor community



6
including by the IDA-financed Public Institutional Development project (PID) approved in 1992.
Major achievements in recent years have been in the area of public finance management with the
adoption of a new budgetary framework and the effective implementation of a computerized public
expenditure processing and monitoring system which covers current expenditures of all ministries
except payroll and debt service. At the end of 1996 the Government launched a second phase of
its institutional reform program with the preparation of two broad pieces of legislation: (a) the
"comprehensive reforn of the state" which i) specifies the new role of the state and provides a
delineation for its intervention in the economy; and ii) provides the framework for a major civil
service reformn that seeks to introduce more flexibility in the status of state employees and to
revise personnel management regulat:ions substantially; and (b) a decentralization law that
defines the principles and orientations of decentralization in Burkina Faso.
(iv) An economy with limited openness and exporting mostly labor. In spite of a strong export
performance, particularly since the devaluation, the export rate has remained the lowest in the region
(12 percent of GDP on average between 1990 and 1997) which explains Burkina Faso's structural
trade deficit (-11.5 percent of GDP in 1998) and current account deficit (-9.4 percent of GDP in
1998). For the past decades, an important fraction of Burkina Faso's workforce has migrated to
coastal neighboring countries-especially C6te d'Ivoire-to seize low wage job opportunities, an
exodus which tends to leave behind lower productivity workers.
Regional Integration, Competitiveness, and Productivi
21.  Objectives. Following the 1994 CFAF devaluation, Burkina Faso and the other members of the
BCEAO monetary zone have worked to create an economic union (the WAEMU) based on the pre-
existing monetary union and focused initially on the establishment of a customs union, as well as
continuing efforts to harmonize indirect tax policies and investment incentives, Government
budgeting and accounting procedures, and statistics. Additional, longer term objectives include:
(i) the freedom of movement of persons; (ii) macroeconomic policy convergence; and (iii) comrnmon
sectoral policies.
22.  Costs and Opportunities of Integration. Membership to the WAEMU customs union poses
some short-term challenges to Burkina Faso. The decrease in external tariffs will initially lead to
lower public revenues. Moreover, because Burkina Faso's productivity rates across the board are
currently lower than its main competitors in the Union (see table 4), the Union will inevitably lead to
significant economic restructuring, which should eventually lead to higher exports where Burkina
Faso has a comparative advantage-especially in agriculture and some services.
23.  While the potential economic gains are extremely difficult to quantify, the ambitious
integration obj ectives would in the long rn assist a poor, landlocked and relatively arid country like
Burkina Faso, whose major engine of growth will continue to be its participation in the stronger
economies on the coast, especially C6te d'Ivoire, where over 3 millionBurkinabe already live and
work. Closer integration also gives Burkina Faso a larger regional market for goods in which it has a
clear comparative advantage-including livestock and garden produce, plus an opportunity to benefit
from more efficient services and industries elsewhere in the zone and thereby enhance its overall
competitiveness. WAEMU itself offers some assurance that national policies will be both better
designed and implemented-as the need to harmonize policies across the Union should put a limit on
the most distortionary policies in individual countries as well as provide a way of mutually locking in
these policy commitments.



7
24. The Burkinabe Government has declared its commitment to realizing the objective of greater
economic competitiveness, together with closer economic integration within the WAEMU and with
the rest of the world. It is implementing reform programs aimed at alleviating underlying structural
problems that may contribute to weaken the competitive position of Burkina Faso and limit its
potential to gain from both closer regional integration and the forces of globalization. Specifically,
these reforms aim at: privatizing key public enterprises, especially public utilities; achieving greater
competition in the production and marketing of major agricultural products-especially cotton, sugar
and rice; restructuring the livestock sector; modernizing the public administration including the
judiciary; strengthening natural resource mianagement and improving the efficiency and effectiveness
of public resources allocated to human resource development in general, and to health and education,
in particular; integrating the transportation system through the joint operation, together with C6te
d'Ivoire, of a private railway company; and exploring the possibilities of subregional air transport
operations with several neighboring countries.
25.  Realizing these gains has transitional costs: it will require focused public expenditures,
especially to strengthen the quality of theBurkinabe workforce, as well as adopting policies that will
both encourage and allow more competitive entry into key economic activities. These costs are
likely to increase the financing requirements of the Government in the short run, given on one hand
the lower taxes on imports and on the other, the need to increase public spending in education,
health, and roads. As only a small portion of these costs are likely to be met through intra-WAEMU
fiscal transfers, greater donor assistance will be needed.
C.  MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
Rationale for an Accelerated Growth Strategy and Improved Competitiveness
26.  While Burkina Faso's macroeconomic performance has been good since the 1994 CFA Franc
devaluation, it is fragile and below what is needed to reduce poverty substantially. Burkina Faso has
achieved a per capita real income growth of 1.6 percent per year over the past seven years-since the
first ESAF program was adopted. At its current pace, it would take 44 years to double the country's
real per capita income of $220 in 1998.
27.  There is broad consensus in Burkina Faso on the country's longer-term developmental goals
and medium-term strategy. A variety of documents-including the study on Growth Prospects and
Competitiveness carried out by a Goveniment team in April 1999 and the recently finalized Policy
Framework Paper 2000-2002-have been used to articulate the country's strategy for the next
decade. The strategy consists of transforming Burkina Faso from one of the poorest countries in Sub-
Saharan Africa into a middle-income one with a dynamic private sector open to the world economy.
This development objective will be achieved through the implementation of a new policy framework
based on an accelerated growth strategy.
28. With the aim of increasing per capita income and accelerating the development of human
resources and productive potential, the Government has formulated a medium- and long-term
strategy in the context of the Letter on Sustainable Human Development Policy and the new
Policy Framework Paper. The primary objectives between now and 2005 can be summarized as
follows: (i) a minimum annual increase of 3 percent in per capita GDP; (ii) a doubling of the
literacy rate from 20 percent to 40 percent; (iii) a gain of some 10 years in life expectancy,



8
bringing it to 57 years. The achievement of a GDP growth rate of more than 6 percent will
require the implementation of an ambitious reform agenda to promote exports, enhance
competition and private sector development.
29.  To accelerate economic growth and generate employment, it is essential that more be done to
remove the constraints on economic activity and to foster the development of a dynamic and modem
private sector, in particular by improvin,g the business environment. To address the above mentioned
challenges, the authorities have outlined a growth strategy focused on the following policy areas:
*  Reducing significantly marginal effective tax rates on the formal sector while broadening the tax
base and improving public expenditu.re management;
*  Reducing infrastructure, input, and transaction costs to improve the competitiveness of the
private sector; and encouraging private sector investments in low cost, high quality basic
infrastructure projects;
*  Reforning the legal system to provide appropriate protection and incentives to private investors
and to attract informal sector businesses into the formal economy;
*  Enhancing human capital by raising the efficiency of public expenditures in education and health
sectors. To this end, the Government has committed the financial resources expected from the
HIPC Initiative to the funding of specific programs in social sectors aimed at poverty alleviation,
according to the Strategy Note under preparation. In addition, the Government intends to
introduce more flexibility in the labor market-this would increase factor mobility and the
reallocation of resources that are expected to occur from an export-led growth strategy.
30. The Government is fully aware that the completion of such an ambitious agenda will be a
major challenge. Investors' reaction could be slow. Progress will require substantial efforts to
enhance local capacity of public and private actors, which the Bank strategy will continue to support
through a range of instruments.
4. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA FASO
AND COLLABORATION WITH DONORS
31. Cumulative Bank Lending to Burkina Faso. The cumulative Bank Group's commitments to
Burkina Faso as of June 30, 1999, amounted to about US$862 million equivalent for 56 operations,
comprising 53 IDA credits totaling US$859 million and 3 IFC investments (US$2.7 million). The 53
IDA credits (42 closed and II active) include five adjustment operations (SAC I, Transport SECAL,
Agricultural SECAL, Economic Recovery Credit, and Economic Management Reform Support
Operation), twenty agriculture projects, five education projects, three health projects, eight
infrastructure/transport proj ects, three telecommunications projects, four urban proj ects, two mining
projects, one public institutional development project, one finance project, and one private sector
assistance project. Two IFC investments provided support to two financial institutions (EcoBank-
Burkina Faso, FY97; and SGBB, FY98) and one investment supported AEF Faso Mine.
32.  Ongoing Lending Operations. Three ongoing operations support IDA's strategy in the
agriculture sector. A Food Security project (US$7.5 million, FY93) aims at reducing Government's
response time in reacting to national food emergencies, improving targeting of food security



9
programs, and strengthening household coping mechanisms. A second Agricultural Services project
(US$41.3 million, FY98) aims at increasing agricultural productivity and farmers' revenues,
improving natural resource management and promoting institutional development. A Private
Irrigation project (US$5.2 million, FY99) supports the provision of demand-driven services
necessary to develop an efficient, sustainable small irrigation sub-sector in Burkina Faso.
33.  To support human resource development, three ongoing operations are being implemented.
A Post-Primary Education project (US$26 million, FY97) supports the implementation of the
Government's post-primary education strategy. In the health sector, a Health and Nutrition project
(US$29.2 million, FY94) assists the Government in its efforts to improve the quality, coverage and
utilization of basic health services, enhance the nutritional status of the population, and develop a
national capacity for achieving sustainable control of endemic parasitic diseases. A Population and
Aids Control project (US$26.3 million, FY94) aims at enhancing the onset of fertility decline by-
increasing the prevalence of modem methods of contraception and slowing the spread of HIV
infections by promoting behavioral change. In the urban sector, an Urban Environment project (US$
37 million, FY95) aims at improving urban living conditions through priority urban works and urban
services benefiting low income groups.
34.  With respect to private sector development, the Private Sector Assistance project (US$7
million, FY93) provides institutional assistance to private entrepreneurs, and supports the
implementation of the privatization program and the financial sector reform. The nmining sector is
also expected to expand, given the recent renewed interest in gold exploration and extraction.  A
Mining Sector Capacity Building and Environmental Management project (US$21.4 million, FY97)
supports regulatory reform and trainirng, institutional strengthening and resource management,
environmental management and small-scale artisanal mining.
35.  The Public Institutional Developiment project (US$15 million, FY92) aims at reinforcing the
major public institutions charged with economic and sector management. Finally, a Transport
Sector Adjustrnent Credit (US$66 million, FY92) assists the Government in rehabilitating and
maintaining essential transport infrastructure and in improving sectoral efficiency, including the
strengthening of existing institutions, the adoption of sound policy and regulatory measures and the
restructuring of sector parastatals.
36.  Future lending operations. The lending program for the period FYOO-01 would include a
Water Supply project (FY00), a Public Works and Decentralization project (FY01), a Basic
Education'project (FY01) and a Community-based Rural Development project (FY01). This lending
program will be reviewed with Government in the next few months in the context of the preparation
of the next CAS.
37.  Aid Coordination. Donor activities are effectively coordinated in a number of operations
under supervision, especially in the transport and health sectors. Close coordination is needed in the
preparation of the Water Supply project (Ziga operation) for which financing is sought from more
than ten donors. The last roundtable took place in October 1995 in Geneva and the main themes
were implementation of structural adjustment programs, the impact of the CFA devaluation and
medium-term development objectives for Burkina Faso. Another area of focus for coherent aid
coordination is the decentralization process, which is currently being supported by various donors
under different approaches. The recently approved decentralization law should provide a framework
for harmonization of external assistance in that area.



10
38.  Following the SPA meeting in 1996, Burkina Faso was selected as one of the pilot countries
for testing new ways of formulating conditionalities associated with structural adjustment. The Bank
has been working closely with Government and other donors in developing performance indicators as
well as monitoring arrangements. The evaluation of the test on reformulatedconditionality will take
place by the end of 1999 and a decision will be made as to its applicability.
39.  Lessons learned. The main objective of the first Structural Adjustment credit was to improve
public resource management and create incentives for private sector growth. The Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) concluded that the adjustment program succeeded in restoring significant
but fragile economic growth. But the program was too broad-based and lacked coherence. One
lesson identified in the report was to identify innovative approaches for the design of future
adjustment operations, which would prevent unexpected difficulties in specific reform areas from
slowing down the whole reform process. It also noted that strong Government commitment to-
privatization was a key factor for private sector development.
40.  The main objective of the Economic Recovery Credit was to support Burkina Faso's post-
devaluation adjustment program aiming at private sector-led growth and poverty alleviation. The ICR
rated this project as satisfactory and indicated that the success of the operation was due in large part
to its simple design. It noted that emergency recovery credits, and one-tranche operations in general,
lend themselves well to support policy reforms that depend on concrete policy decisions where
implementation is not a long process involving a large number of ministries and implementing
agencies.
41.  The ICR for the EMRSO is currently under preparation and will be presented to the Board
shortly. The Government has already provided the Bank with its own Project Implementation
Assessment, which concludes that the operation was fully satisfactory.
5. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. LINKS WITH THE CAS AND RATIONALE FOR THE CREDIT
SAC m and the Growth Strategy
42.  The ongoing Burkina Faso CAS was discussed by the Executive Directors on July 11, 1996. A
significant part of the Bank's lending and non-lending services has supported the Government's
stabilization and structural adjustment effort including, those aimed at regional integration. A new
CAS is under preparation and will be p:resented to the Board in March-April 2000. The policy
framework of the new CAS envisages significant competitiveness gains through fundamental
changes in tax policy, reduction of input and transaction costs, and enhanced human capital. The
overall objective of the strategy is to reduce poverty. The approach to reach this objective centers on
three axes: (i) increasing income opportunities and productive capacity; (ii) developing the social
sectors through more efficient use and better targeting of public expenditure; and (iii) strengthening
the role of the private sector. The proposed single tranche credit would underpin an expanded
structural reform program and the regional integration effort.
43.  The proposed credit is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to assist Burkina Faso in
maintaining macroeconomic stability and financial sustainability, in gaining competitiveness, in



11
stimulating resource mobilization, private investment flows, external trade, and in improving
efficiency. The proposed measures are essential to the enhancement of Burkina Faso's growth
prospects. When fully implemented, the reform program could result in improved allocative
efficiency that could raise real growth to more than 6 percent per annum, and as a result of faster
growth and improved delivery of social services, bring about a substantial decline in poverty.Also,
by focusing on revenue mobilization and the efficient reallocation of public resources towards
priority areas, namely education, health, anid poverty reduction programs, the operation is expected to
ensure that these key sectors would not suffer from budgetary cuts during the transition period.
44.  The proposed operation will support. one of the focus areas pillars of the new policy framework
outlined by Government (see para. 29), namely the necessary improvement in the overall public
finance management system. It is recognized that a pre-requisite to the success of the accelerated
growth strategy will be to maintain sound Government finances-notwithstanding the short-term loss-
of revenue that would result from the reduction of income tax rates on the formal sector of the
economy and the implementation of the final phase of the CET-and to improve the efficiency of
public expenditures.
Budgetary Gap and Financing Requirements
45.  The reduction of tax rates and the implementation of the final step of the CET-which are the
key measures supported by this credit-could reduce receipts by about 1 percent of GDP in 2000.
Thus, Government revenue as a percentage of GDP is projected to decline from 14.3 percent in 1999
to 13.5 percent in 2000. According to the most recent projections, expenditures and net lending
(excluding proceeds of privatization) are expected to amount CFAF 396.1 billion for 1999, compared
with projected fiscal revenues and grants of CFAF 321.2 billion. This would lead to an overall
budget deficit of CFAF 74.9 billion. Adding to that amount 6.3 billion of domestic arrears repayment
yields a budget deficit (cash basis) to be financed of 81.1 billion, of which CFAF 46.9 billion would
be covered by expected financing. Taking into account the ESAF program targets for primary surplus
and net credit to Government, the remaining budgetary gap will amount to about CFAF 34 billion
($55 million, equivalent to 2.1 percent of GDP), and is expected to be fully covered by identified
bilateral and multilateral assistance-including resources from the proposed structural adjustment
operation.
46.   The targeted economic growth of more than 6 percent will be sustainable only if it is
supported by an increase in saving and investment. For this reason, the Government's fiscal
policy will seek to increase domestic public saving; this, combined with the expected inflow of
external assistance, will permit to finance an adequate level of investment which, in turn, needs
to be effectively allocated. The overall investment ratio is expected to remain at about 27 percent
of GDP during the 1999-2002 period.2
Progress in the Implementation of the Previous Adjustment Operation
47. The proposed SAC III follows up on the one-tranche Economic Management Reform Support
Operation (EMRSO) which was approved by the Board in November 1998. The EMRSO supported
2In the framework of the public expenditure review, a study is currently being conducted on the public investment
program. This may lead to a reassessment of the current investment-to-GDP ratio which seems overstated.



12
the consolidation of the first phase of reforms in Burkina Faso and laid the foundations for the next
generation of reforms in the areas of public finance and public expenditure management,
privatization, and the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors. The Government has made
substantial progress in implementing the EMRSO reform agenda, including in the four policy areas
identified as triggers for proceeding with further adjustment support:
*  a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) for six key ministries identified in the 1999
budget guidelines is being completed, and a thorough public expenditure review is underway in
education and health; the MTEF reform is conceived as a shift to performance budgeting, with
clear objectives for the key sectors, multi-year financial programming, outcomes indicators,
transparency in the use of funds, and accountability;
*  the newly adopted "reform of the state" consistent with the MTEF approach (especially its
provisions on local recruitment for contractual positions in education and health, and merit-based
promotion system at the national level) is being implemented at a satisfactory pace; a
Government-led study is underway to explore ways of delegating spending authority;
*  a rural development strategy has been developed with a view to enhancing both the growth
prospects of the sector and the living standards of farmers following the 1998 Strategic
Orientation Document for the agriculture and livestock sectors. In addition, an action plan was
approved in October 1999 by the Cabinet; it identifies five priority areas (soil fertility, food
security, modernization of agriculture, Government support to farmers and producer associations,
and institutional supervision);
*  the privatization program as of Deceimber 1998 was implemented, according to the schedule in
the Policy Framework Paper for 1998-2000. Invitations to bid for the sale of SLM (leasing of
construction equipment), SOCOGIB (construction), INB (printing), SNTB (transportation), SHG
(hotels) were launched according to schedule, while SOFIVAR, ONAVET (veterinary products),
COMIKI (mining), FASO YAAR (retail trade), CSSPA (price stabilization), and SINAC (shoes)
were liquidated. The liquidation of FASO FANI (textiles), SONACOR (rice ginning), and
SAVANA (fruit juices) is also underway.
48.  Building on the on-going reform momentum, the proposed program underpinning the Credit
seeks to consolidate recent gains in restoring macroeconomic stability and support the
implementation of important reforms in public finance and public expenditure management.
B. CREDIT COMPONENTS
49.  The reform programn associated with this credit has four major elements: (i) tax policy and its
supply side effects; (ii) efficiency of public expenditures; (iii) budgetary procedures to increase
transparency; and (iv) regulatory framework to improve domestic competitiveness (see matrix in
Annex F).
Establishing A Tax-Friendly Business Environment
50.  Since the early 1990s, Burkina Faso's tax system has been gradually rationalized with the
introduction of a value-added tax in 1993, the improved monitoring of the largest taxpayers, and the
steps taken to bring the informal sector under the tax net. In addition, the phased introduction of the



13
CET of the WAEMU started in July 1998. The procedures for controlling tax payments on
externally-financed projects were strengthened with the introduction in 1998 of a new mechanism to
manage the treasury checks through which tax due by contractors under externally-financed
Government projects is paid. Most customs operations were computerized in 1996-98, and the
domestic tax administration was strengthened, notably the administration of the VAT; tax revenue
from that source rose from 3 percent of GDP in 1995 to 3.9 percent of GDP in 1998. The ratio of
public revenue to GDP has indeed increased steadily from 8.7 percent of GDP in 1992 to 13.1
percent of GDP in 1998, in spite of the gradual introduction of the CET, which lowered external
tariffs.
51.  Despite the progress made in improving revenue collection, Burkina Faso continues to be
faced with an inefficient taxation structure. Revenue collected through regular and discretionary
measures, excluding grants, are still too low, compared with total expenditure and net lending (on a
commitment basis, excluding grants) of 22.4 percent of GDP.
52.  Since the beginning of the stabilization program in Burkina Faso, the main objective of tax
policy has been to raise public revenue. While the upward trend is justified by the rather low
initial level in comparison to the country's acute needs for social infrastructures, preliminary
studies on fiscal policy conclude that iincreased taxation may have had negative supply side
effects, thus undernining growth and the prospects of raising public revenues in a sustainable
manner. According to the results of a recent business survey, the high level of taxation on the
formal sector reduces the expected after-tax profit and also reduces the availability of investment
finance. Furthermore, over the years, some ad hoc increases in tax rates were often relied upon
for large consumption products like petroleum to achieve revenue targets, without prior analysis
of the supply side effects. Finally, the private sector receives little value for their taxes because
of the weak administrative capacity in place and the ineffective mechanisms for public service
delivery.
53.  Burkina Faso's tax system is still heavily dependent on trade taxes (26 percent) and
income and profit taxes (22 percent). Furthermore, the tax system is inequitable, with the burden
falling mainly on the small modern business sector. It is estimated that only 1,600 enterprises
support the fiscal burden. Burkina Faso has a large informal sector of some 90,000 micro-
enterprises which contributes 32 percent of GDP, accounts for 70 percent of non-agricultural
employment, but continues to escape taxation. Since 1995, the informal sector has increased in
urban areas. This sector now contributes more than 50 percent of value added in certain
industries (food industry 69 percent, textile 81.9 percent, and carpentry 68.5 percent).
54.  While Burkina Faso's current level of public revenue is still low, even by West African
standards, rapidly increasing taxation on the formal modern sector may deter private investment,
especially since the formal enterprise sector represents a small share of output but a high proportion
of the effective tax base. Also, because access to credit is limited, particularly for smaller firms, most
private investment by domestic investors is financed by personal savings and profits. Thus, from a
business perspective, Burkina Faso appears to be a more highly taxed environment compared with its
neighboring countries, particularly C6te d'Ivoire and Ghana.
55.  To remove this constraint to private investment and growth, the authorities are committed to
substantially reducing the corporate income tax rate, and to fully implementing the CET that provides



14
for lower external tariffs. The Governmant will also use the marginal effective tax rate technique to
carry out a quantitative analysis of the tax burden incurred by firms and its overall cost of production
across various industries, and to reassess the tax instnrments that are used for investment promotion.
Public Expenditure Management
56.  While current expenditure as a share of GDP has declined from 12.7 percent of GDP in 1994
to 10 percent in 1998, investment spending in the health, education and infrastructure sectors has
risen markedly. Preliminary findings of the Public Expenditure Review (PER) underway suggest
that the Government needs to restructure significantly its public expenditures to ensure adequate
funding of priority sectors while containing overall recurrent expenditure and enhancing the
efficiency of public outlays.
57. The Government recognizes that improving public expenditure planning, management and
execution; enhancing public expenditure efficiency, and increasing resource allocations for the social
sectors, in line with policy priorities agreed under the IHPC 1997 objectives, requires new
instruments. To strengthen programming and management of public expenditure, the Government
has been developing a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), which will be used as a tool
to integrate the process of sectoral decision making and setting budget allocations according to
Government's priorities. Under the MTEF, sectoral policy decisions will be integrated within a three-
year rolling macroeconomic and public expenditure framework. The Government has started to
implement the MTEF for the health and education sectors in 1999, and its objective is to do the same
for the infrastructure sector in 2000 and for all sectors in 2001.
58.  As part of this program, guidelines for the preparation of the 1999 and 2000 budgets were
issued indicating both the overall level of expenditure consistent with the Policy Framework Paper
1999-2002; and the indicative sectoral targets for health and education. In addition, to further
strengthen public expenditure management, the Ministry of Finance is already implementing an
integrated monitoring system of recurrent non-salary public expenditure and developing a new public
accounting system as well as a comprelLensive monitoring of public expenditures, including debt
service, investment and salaries.
Budgetary Procedures and Transparency
59.  The budget execution cycle in Burkina Faso is divided into the stages usually found in systems
based on the French model; i.e. commitmnent (engagement), verification (liquidation), Ministry-to-
Treasury payment orders (ordonnancemerats), and actual payment (paiement). In principle, ministries
are supposed to keep their own sets of accounts and payment orders, but the quality of these records
is often unreliable. Until recently, reconciliation of the accounting entries recorded by the central
agencies (i.e. the Contr6le Financier, the Directorate General of Budget, and the Directorate General
of Treasury), and the exchange of information among them, was inadequate.
60.  Furthermore, records of the civil service salary bill and expenditures made from external
sources of financing were not entered in the Treasury's accounts. Reports on budget execution were
exclusively based on data provided by the Ministry of Finance. In the absence of a reliable
information system, these procedures are cumbersome. Ministries settle expenditures and prepare
payment orders, but payment authority itself is formally vested in Financial Control Division of the
Mfinistry of Finance. The multiplicity of stages requiring prior approval and verification for each
operation led to delays, inefficiency, and errors at all levels.



15
61. The Government adopted in 1996 a new financial information management system(circuit de
la depense) which could provide a computerized and reliable monitoring tool. The system is being
extended to integrate all stages and files of the public spending process-especially a single
reference file for the wage bill. The authorities are also committed to submitting Government
accounts at the end of each fiscal year to thle Supreme Audit Institution (Chambredes Comptes of the
Supreme Court) and to Parliament.
Regulatory Framework
62. Over the first years of the stabilization program in Burkina Faso, emphasis was placed almost
exclusively on privatizing public assets. There were, and there remain, some instances were
Government regulation, rather than enhancing the market performance, contributed to economic
inefficiency. A well-designed privatization, where a good regulatory framework already exists, can
raise enornous revenue as it increases services and lowers prices.
63.  In redesigning the regulatory framework, the Burkinabe authorities decided to start with the
telecommunications sector. The Government initiated a reform program in 1998 and is currently in
the process of establishing the legal and regulatory framework to allow competition. The
Government also recently adopted a sector policy declaration which confirms the liberalization
option set out in the December 1998 telecommunications Law and outlines a number of quantitative
objectives for the sector in terms of number of new lines. It has also agreed to privatize the
incumbent operator. The authorities are also committed to incorporating in the regulatory framework
measures to extend service to the poor both in rural and urban areas.
C.  SPECIFIC ACTIONS REQUIRED FOR THIS CREDIT
66.  The stage for this operation has been set by a number of important decisions already takenor
currently being taken and that will be fully implemented prior to Board approval to demonstrate
the Government's determination to move forward with its medium-term development agenda. These
decisions concem the following actions:
(i) Tax and Trade policy:
* lowering the maximum tariff rate from 25 percent to 20 percent;
* lowering the corporate income tax rate from 40 percent to 35 percent, and launching a study to
further lower the tax rate to 30 percent or 25 percent by 2001;
* introducing a withholding tax at customs and on purchases from wholesalers to be applied
against the profit tax (1 percent for basic consumption food and 2 percent for other merchandise);
* removing the ban on hide exports;
* ensuring that the two major tax offices (Kadiogo I and Houet I) are fully computerized and
strengthened;
(ii) Public expenditure management
* issuing the terms of reference and recruit consultants for the preparation of studies in the
framework of the public expenditure review (education, health, financial decentralization, and
public investment program);



16
*  adopting a plan of action and timetable for the extension of the MTEF approach to all key
Government ministries for the year 2001 budget;
*  completing and sending the year-end budget execution reports for the 1993 and 1994
budgets (lois de reglement) to the Supreme Audit Institution (Chambre des Comptes de la Cour
Supreme);
(iii) Budgetary procedures
* integrating the payroll managemenrt system (SYGASPE) into the Government's financial
management system (circuit de la depense);
(iv) Regulatory framework
*  establishing the regulatory authority iFor the telecommunications sector;
D. LOOKING AHEAD
67.  Monitoring and Likely Triggers for the next SAC. The Burkinabe authorities have designed
a development strategy that will require broad domestic participation and strong external support.
The main objective of the IDA assistance strategy in Burkina Faso will continue to be to support the
country achieve sustainable development and poverty reduction through accelerated economic
growth. In addition to the progress benchmarks listed in column six of the attached matrix, the
monitoring of the overall reform program will be carried out in the context of public expenditure
reviews and reviews of the ESAF programa.
68.  While the details of the next credit are yet to be worked out with theBurkinabe authorities, the
focus would remain on public finance reform, with an emphasis on efficiency, competitiveness and
poverty reduction. The Bank will also continue to work closely with Burkina Faso's development
partners to ensure a coordinated dialogue and funding efforts for the implementation of the necessary
reforms. In addition to the maintenance of satisfactory macroeconomic program and overall reform
effort, the next structural adjustment crecit would be triggered by substantial progress, in particular,
in the following policy areas:
adoption of program budgets (budgets programmes) in the six key Government ministries
identified in the April 1999 budget guidelines (i.e., ministries of Health, Economy and Finance,
Territorial Administration, Defense, Basic Education, and Secondary/Higher education); these
program budgets should be sent to Parliament with the fiscal year 2001 draft budget bill.
* local recruitment for contractual positions in education.
* implementation of the public enterprise reform and privatization program as of June 2000,
according to the schedule in the Policy Framework Paper for 1999-2002.
* preparation of a Poverty Reduction St;rategy Paper in close collaboration with the Bank and the
IMF).



17
completion and transmission to the Supreme Audit Institution (Chambredes Comptes de la Cour
Supreme) of year-end budget execution reports (Lois de reglements) for 1995 and 1996 fiscal
years.
6.   CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
69. Credit Amount and Financing. The Borrower will be the Government of Burkina Faso. The
proposed amount of IDA financing is US$25 million equivalent. This amount is considered
necessary to support the momentum of policy reforms in the Burkinabe economy.
70. Tranching. The Credit will be disbursed in one tranche of SDR 18 million (about US$ 25
million), which will be released at credit. effectiveness. This one-tranche Credit is justified on the
basis of (i) significant up-front policy actions dealing mostly with public finance; and (ii) the drop in
fiscal revenue due to the implementation of the third phase of theWAEMU's CET and the reduction
of the corporate income tax rate.
71.  Disbursements. The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank. Upon notification of
release for the tranche, proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by the Association in this account at
the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for
ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance goods or services in the standard negative list), the Association
will require the Borrower to refund the amount to the Credit Account.
72.  Auditing. The Association reserves the right to seek an audit of the account.
73.  Implementation and Monitoring. The reform program under this Credit will be implemented
by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Because this is a one-tranche operation, implementation of
the overall program as well as macro-economic performance, will be monitored in the context of
preparing the following credit, as well as jointly with the IMF through the Policy Framework Paper,
the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, and bi-annual reviews.
74. Agreements Reached and Conditionalities. The Government has fully met the conditions
referred to in para. 66.
75.  Benefits and Risks. The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's strategy to assist
Burkina Faso in maintaining macroeconomic stability and financial sustainability, and in gaining
competitiveness. The proposed measures enhance Burkina Faso's growth prospects. The reforns
help create an environment conducive to private sector-led economic growth, job creation, and
poverty reduction. Also, by focusing on the efficiency of public expenditures and the reallocation of
public resources towards two priority areas, namely education and health, the operation helps protect
budgetary spending in these two key sectors, which would have a direct and positive impact on
poverty alleviation.
76.  Both the implementation of the proposed policy measures and the regional integration process
would benefit Burkina Faso's growth over the medium and long-term by creating a more favorable
business environment, stimulating private investment and exports, and also by improving efficiency
and productivity of public expenditures.



18
77.  Burkina Faso's adjustment record since the 1996 CAS has been steady, but progress in some
areas such as privatization, trade liberalization, civil service reform and decentralization has been
slow. Government commitment to economic reform and poverty reduction has increased over the
past three years, as evidenced by the successful implementation of the ESAF and the previous
adjustment operation (EMRSO). However, there is a risk that the reform program could falter
because of pressures from vested interests and persistent institutional weaknesses. To testify to its
determination, the Government has already taken a number of upfront actions and has already started
implementing the reforms programmed :for 1999-2002. There will be no Board discussion until all
actions underpinning this credit are takenl.
7. RECOMMENDATION
78.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
November 8, 1999



19
_______       ~Table 1. HIPC Targets and Social Development Performance Indicators, 1996-2002
Objectives and Policies          Indicators                                                Targets
Health
Improve primary health care                                           1996   1998               1999     2000      2001
Quality and coverage                                                   Est. Target   Est.    Target   Target  Prelimin
ary
Target
Increase public expenditure on    Share of budget expenditure
Health                            onhealth 1/2/                        11.4     11.0  11.2      12.0      12.0      13.0
Reallocate budgetary spending     Health budgets established
to health districts               at district level                         By 1998
Provide adequate staffing of      Share of CSPS meeting minimal
local health centers (CSPS)       staffing norms (three agents) 1/               ...  ...         ...       ...     100
Provide regular supplies of       Share of CSPS with essential
essential and generic drugs to    and general drugs 1/                  60       80   77         100       100      100
CSPS
Increase utilization rates in CSPS    New cases/inhabitants             0.2       ...  ...
Urban                               0.4      0.5   ...       0.6        ...       ...
Rural                               0.2      0.3   ...       0.4        ...       ...
Strengthen child vaccination      Share of infants (0-24 months)
Programs                          vaccinated 1/
BCG 3/                              67       80   73          85         ...
DCT/polio 4/                        50       70   63          75
Measles/yellow fever                57       75   47          80
Education
Improve coverage, equity, and                                      1996/97      1998/99      1999/2000    2000      2001
quality of basic education                                             Est.   Target  Est.    Target   Target  Prelimin
ary
Target
Increase public spending on       Share of budget expenditure on
basic education                   basic education 2/5/                  9.4     11.5  11.5      13.0      13.0      14.0
Expand capacity of primary        Gross enrollment ratio 1/             40       45   42          46        48        ...
school system                     New admissions in fli-st grade
(in thousands)                       140      229  153        270         ...
Recruit primary school teachers   Local recruitment plan ready              In August 1998
Locally                           Pilot implementation and
continuing evaluation                     October 1998-2001
Promnote girls' education         Girls' primary school gross
enrollment ratio 1/                   32       35   35          38        39       ...
Reduce regional disparities in    Spread in provincial primary
Access to primary education       school enrollment ratios              75       71    ...        69         ...      ...
Improve quality and efficiency    Repetition rate 1/                    18       16   17          14        10        ...
Of primary education              Book-pupil ratio (French and               At least one book for two pupils for 1999/2000;
math)                                     at least one book for every student by 2001J02
1/ In percent.
2/ The targets for 2001-2002 take into account preliminary estimates of additional resources released by the HIPC Initiative.
3/ Tubercolosis.
4/ Diptheria, cholera and tetanus/polio.
5/ Budget year is the first of the two years indicated in the statistics.



20
Table 2. Burkina Faso: Main Structural Reforms under IDA
and IMF SAF and ESAF-Supported Programs, 1991-99
Reforms                                                                                          Year (Actual)
1. Fiscal Reform
Tax reform
Introduction of value-added tax (VAT) on large enterprises and imports                                  1993
Revision of system of taxation for petroleum products, with introduction of VAT                         1993
Increase in the rate of VAT from 15 to 18 percent                                                       1996
Implementation of a single system of taxation in the informal sector & of small and medium-size enterprises  1993
Establishment of tax unit for large taxpayers                                                           1994
Introduction of single tax identifying number                                                           1995
Reduction in the rate of the corporate income tax from 45 to 40 percent                                 1996
Curren t expenditures restricted to 10.5% of GDP                                                        1997-99
Implementation of the first two phases of the WAEMU common external tariff                              1998-99-
Computerization of customs operations                                                                   1996-98
Adoption of a computerized system recording the entire spending cycle                                   1996-99
Adoption of new procedures for controlling tax paym-ents of externally financed projects                1996-99
Budgetary reform
Strict enforcement of prior comnmiitment authorization by Ministry of Finance                           1995
Closure of expenditure commitments by November 20 of each year                                          1995
Preparation of a monthly status of expenditure by budget heading at the commitment, settlement & payment order stage  1995
Adoption of a unified budget nomenclature                                                               1995
Adoption of a computerization plan for the Ministry of Finance and financial Govenunent agencies        1996
Launching of the hannonization program for budgetary & public accounting procedures in the context of the WAEMU   1997
Reduction of domestic arrears
Repayment of debt of the postal saving system                                                           1995-96
External debt
Strengthening of the debt management unit                                                               1997-98
2. Public enterprise privatization
First phase concerning 22 enterprises: 20 enterprises privatized or liquidated; 2 transformed into administrative units of 1991-96
the ministry of Secondary and Higher Education;
Second phase concerning 19 enterprises: 8 enterprises privatized or liquidated; 7 currently under liquidation; 4 being    1994-99
privatized
TBird phase: 4 enterprises being privatized, including the teleconununications and the electricity companies  1998-00
A strategic study is currently underway for the remaining state companies' portfolio                    1998-99
3. Banking sector reform
Liquidation of BND-B                                                                                    Early 1997
Privatization of BFCI                                                                                   Early 1997
Privatization of B1I3                                                                                   1994
Reduction of bank debt                                                                                  1995-96
Creation of two new banks (Ecobank-Burkina and Bank of Africa)                                          1997-98
4. Trade liberalization
Elimination of most price controls                                                                      1991-94
Elimination of most export duties                                                                       1993
Elimination of import authorization and requirements                                                    1993-95
Trade and price liberalization, including elimination ofpublic marketing and stabilization schemes on traditional cereals, 1993
oil seeds, livestock
Elimination of CGP (public enterprise) monopoly of rice imports                                         1996
Elimination of SOSUCO monopoly for sugar imports                                                        1996
Reduction in the number of products whose imports are subject to quality controls                       1996
Removal of export restrictions on hides and skins                                                       1999
5. Lbera2Lvation of Labor Code                                                                             1993-94
6. Clvii strvice reform
Adoptio'n of a new legal framework for civil service reform                                             1998
Implementation of the new merit-based system                                                            1999



21
Table 3. Status of ]Privatization Program, June 1999
Enterprise            Sector             Tumover    Employment                     Status/Remarks
(In millions   (Number)
of 1996 CFA
Francs)
Phase 1 (privatization law of 1991) involves 22 companies, of which 20 have already been privatized or liquidated.
Two companies remain to be privatized:
SOCOGIB            Construction                   400                50
GOVERNMENT SIIARE TO BE SOLD
BEFORE MID-2000.
CNEA               Agricultural equipment          ...               ... Merger with state enterprise APICOMA
adopted by Council of Ministers in January
1999, bids launched in June 1999.
Phase 2 (privatization law of 1994) involves 19 companies, of which 2 have been liquidated and 6 already privatized, I/ including
SOSUCO (sugar) and SOPAL (alcohol), whose sales were completed in the first semester of 1998, with proceeds of CFAF 4.4 billion  |
and CFAF 0.7 billion respectively.
For two companies, direct ongoing negotiations with prospective buyers are expected to be completed in 1999:
FASO FANI          Textiles                     4,900               676  Competitive bidding unsuccessful; bilateral
negotiations so far unsuccessful.
SAVANA             Fruit juices                   474                72  Competitive bidding unsuccessful, bilateral
negotiations under way with two potential
investors.
For one company, bids were launched in 1998, and sale contract is in final stage:
SLM                Leasing of                     550               114  Assets sold to various bidders.
construction equipment
For seven companies, liquidation is to be finalized in 1999:
SONACOR            Rice ginning                    ...               52  Liquidation under way
SOFIVAR            Groundnuts                      45                69  Liquidation under way.
SONACAB            Tiles                           56                42  Liquidation under way.
SONACIB            Cinema                         655               215  Liquidated assets taken over by private sector
infirst half of 1999.
SOBEMA             Enamel                          ...               ...  Liquidation under way.
COMIKI             Mining                          ...               ...  Liquidation under way.
SINAC              Shoes                            ...              ...  Liquidation under way.
Phase 3 involves the residual portfolio of companies (privatization laws of 1998).
Four companies have already been selected for total or partial privatization:
SHG                Hotels                          ...               ...  Privatization strategy under study.
ONATEL             Telecommunications          18,000             1,250  Privatization and sector liberalization approved
by parliament in December 1998. Bids to be
launched by June 2000.
SOFITEX            Cotton ginnery              40,000                ...  Sale of 30 percent share to cotton producers
completed by end-April 1999.
Air Burkina        Airline                         ...                   Privatization strategy adopted; call for bids to
be launched by end-March 2000.
1/ Two companies liquidated: FASO YAAR (distribution) and CSSP (price stabilization). Six companies already sold: RNTCX9
(urbanization)
BURKINA and SHELL (petroleum distribution), SOSUCO (sugar), SOPAL (alcohol), SNTB (transport), and INB (printing).



v.    58; wgl gd e  e &Construction cost for a square meter
o, -l ol Si c                in the capital (land)
..  .. . , . . .__~~~~...   . .. ..... ...... ,.. 
~ 80 < wS3] re o S Construction cost for a square meter 1
S                 8 S       in the capital (office building)    o
Water (over 100 m3)          a
1    8  Xl   <           Electricity costs
- .     __V1xw/n, exci. VAl)
-,    O N            Telecommunication costs for a one-  p.
xo' oi 81-2 e  A o       minute call in the WAEMU         (
Vl~ Wl Vl -lI V   l O     Telecommunication costs         C
19l ><i bI v! -  t  ie for a three-minute long distance call o
.w i s i gSl 1  >  u  &Transport costs
oo' obl A o! i-o tA v       Roads (CFA per Km)
Transport costs
ol x  i  xo, u  _  s     Air freight to the USA
o; o  o C&    CD                (CFAperKg)
., g                     T1 SXJi s  ul s   'Lransport costs
-c 0o' 'o, XD a  (nRail (CFA perKm)                    et
x   - v. 12 S  x  o  Social Charges paid by firms
~ >  si w01 S  in xc    (in % of salary)           t
>'i W6 x'oio W    c. 
-1                        Montly minimum wages
-, 0, SD   '_oCU
.,   _                    _



Annex A
Burkina Faso: hincome and Social Indicators
Item              Unit of Measurement                Latest Single year         Eat        Eat        Eat                 Programmed
1990-95              1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       2O002
Population
Plopulation (midyear)          Thousanids                                    9,515.4    10,316.6  10,562.0  10,862.2  11,171.2  11,489.4  11,817.0  12,154.3
Plopulation growth rate        Annual average in perent                           2.4          2.4        2.4        2.8        2.8        2.8        2.8        2.8
TCotal fertility rate          Birthis per woman                                  6.7          6.7        6.6        ...        ...         ..          ....
Poverty
National poverty line          Local currency                                      ...     41,099          ...             ...        ...
Urban poverty line           Local currency                                      ...          ...        ...       ...         ...         ..         ..         ..
Rural poverty line           Local currency                                      ...          ...        ...        ...        ...         ..         ....
National headcount index       Percent of population                               ...        44.9         .          ...        ...        ..          ..
Urban headcount index I/   Percent of population                                 ...         7.8         ...       ...                    ..          ....
Rural headcount index        Percent of population                               ...          ...       ...                               ......                 ..
Incomelconsutnption
GNP per capita 2!              U.S. dollars                                    230.0        240.0      250.0         ...        ...         ..          ..
Index of real wages..                                                                           ..         ..        ..
Agricultuiral..                                                                               ....                                                    ....
Nonagricultural..                                                                             ..         ..         ..         ....                              ..
Consumer price index           Annual average (pferent)                           7.9          6.1        2.3        5.0        2.3        1.5        2.0         2.0
Food price index               Annual average (percent)                          11.8          1.3       17.3        9.4                    ..          ....
Income/c6onsumption distribution
Share of income distribution
Lowest quintile              Pemrent ofincome                                    ...         5.0         ..         ..          .
Hfighest quintile            Percent of income                                   ...        65.0         ...        ...        .....                             ..
Gini coefficient                                                                            0.63
Social indicators
Share of public expenditure,   Percent of GDP
Health                                                                          1.5          2.4        2.6        2.5        2.6        2.6         2.7        2.7
Education (primary school)                                                      1.8          2.0        2.3        2.6        2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5
Social security and welfare
Gross primary school enirollmentt rate
Total                        Perent of school-age group                        38.0         40.0      40.9       42.0        46.0       48.0       50.0        52.0
Male                       Percent of school-age group                       30.0           ..          ..        ...        ...         ..         ....
Femiale                     Percent of school-age group                      47.0         32.0       33.0       35.0       38.0       39.0        39.0       40.0
Access to safe water
Total                        Percent of population                               ...         7.8         ...       ...         ..
Urban                       Percent of population..                                         ....                              ..         ..
Rural                       Percent of population                              ...                                                       ... .........
Inutnunization (under 12 months)
Mleasles                     Percent of age group                              55.0         67.0       72.0      73.0        85.0..                   ....
DPT                          Percent of age group                              47.0         50.0       42.0       63.0       75.0..
Child (under 5) malnutrition ratiPercent of age group                              ...          ...        .          ...        ...        ..          ....
Life expectancy at birth (years)
Total                        Years                                             48.7         49.9       44.4       52.4       53.7..                   ....
Male                        Years                                            45.2           ...      43.6              ...         ...
Female                      Years                                            47.2           ...      45.2         ...        ...         ..         ..
hnfant mortality rate          Per 1,000 live birthis                            99.4          98          ...       ...         ...        ...        ...       70.0
Under-5 mortality rate         Per 1,000 live births                            164.0         158        169         ...                    .......
Male                       Per 1,000 live birth                                 .           ...        ...        ...        ...         ..         ..         ..
Femnale                     Per 1,000 live births                              ...          .          ...        ...         .
Adult (1 5-59) mnortaity rate    Per 1,000 population (percent)                  18.1          ...        ...        ...         ...        ..
Births assisted                Percent                                           32.9          3.3         .          ...        ...        ..          ....
Maternal mortality rate        Per 100,000 live birfth                          939.0            ..        ...      566          ......                          300
Sources: World Bank Social Indicators ofDevelopment, 1996; and World Bank staff estimates.
1/ Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
2/ World Bank Atlas method.



Burkina Faso - Key Economic Indicators                                                 Annex B
Page 1 of 2
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                       100       100        100       100        100        100       100        100       100
Agriculture'                                33         32        33         30        32         31        30         30        29
Industrya                                   26         25        24         25        26         26        27         27         27
Services0                                   37         37        38         39        38         39        39         39        39
Total Consumption                             96        95         91         89        S8         90        88         87        87
Gross domestic fixed                          22        23         26        28         29        27         27         27        27
investment
Government investment                                  t 10      12         14        14         13         13        13         13
Private investment                           9         10        14         13        15         14         14        14         14
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                               13         13        11         11        14         12        13         14         14
Imports (GNFS)                                26        28         29        28         30         29        28         28        27
Grossdomesticsavings                           4          5         9         11        12         10        12         13         13
Gross national savingsc                       16         15        17         17        19         15        17         18         19
Memorandum hems
Gross domestic product                      1882      2355       2536      2387       2599      2661       2834      3134       3464
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross nationalproductper                     210       220        240       250        240          ..
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1985
prices)
Gross domestic product at                 1.2%      4.0%       6.0%      4.7%       6.2%      5.2%       5.7%      6.5%       6.6%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                     1.6%      4.7%       4.5%      4.2%       7.4%      3.4%       7.3%      7.4%       6.5%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%/o, calculated
from 1985 prices)
Gross domesticproductat                  -1.6%      1.1%       3.1%      1.9%       3.3%      2.4%       2.8%      3.6%       3.7%
market prices
Total consumption                        -3.9%      0.2%      -0.4%      1.0%       3.8%      1.5%       2.8%      4.3%       4.2%
Private consumption                      -4.6%      1.0%      -0.4%      0.7%       3.9%       1.5%      2.9%      4.5%       4.4%
(Continued)



Burkina Faso - Key Economic Indicators                                                  Annex B
(Continued)                                                          Page  2  of  2
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b                          248       306      276       267       359       306       370       437       474
Merchandise FOB                        191       237      233       229       307       255       319       377       409
Imports (GNFS)b                         495       666       724       661      781       762       802       879       946
Merchandise FOB                        355      485       562       511       607       587       627      688       741
Resource balance                        -247      -361     -448      -394      -422      -456      -433      -442      -472
Net currenttransfers                     227       239       205      164       190       134       152       167       183
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                   30       -31      -91      -104      -101      -185      -137      -122      -129
(after official capital grants)
Netprivateforeigndirect                   25        20        16        11      -14        41        14        12        22
investment
Long-term loans (net)                    132       193      217       177       222       209       231       259       264
Official                                 80        83       73        78
Private                                  53       111       144       99
Other capital (net, including            -68       -39      -146     -119      -141       -86       -90      -111      -120
errors and omissions)
Changeinreservesd                       -119     -143          4       35        33        22       -18       -38       -37
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                 -13.1%    -15.3%    -17.7%    -16.5%    -16.2%    -17.2%    -15.3%    -14.1%    -13.6%
GDP at current market
prices)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
miarket prices)'
Current revenues                          15        13        14       14        14        14        14        14        14
Currentexpenditures                       13        11        10        10       10        11        11        11        10
Current account surplus(+)                 2         2         4        4         4         3         3         3         4
or deficit (-)
Capitalexpenditure                         9        10        11        13       12        13        13        13        13
Foreignfinancing                          13        16        17        16       15        14        10         9         9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                 24        25        25       27        25        24        24
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                          30        24         8       14         2         4         6..
Private sector credit growth 1           443       -98       74        66        85        85        72        87        88
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1985 =100)
Consumerprice index                   24.7%      7.8%      6.1%     -0.1%      1.0%      2.3%      1.5%      2.0%      2.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                          27.8%      9.8%      4.2%      2.2%      3.1%      1.6%      1.5%      2.4%      2.2%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.



Annex C
Burkina Faso: External Financing Requirements and Resources, 1996-2002
(In billions of CFA francs)
11996    1997    1998       1999     2000    2001       2002
Est. Rev.Prog.         Rev.Proj.
Requirements                              214.3    209.4    224.0    264.5    263.3    271.6    279.5
Current account deficit,
excluding official transfers          190.6    193.6    209.3    244.3    223.4    218.2    224.8
Debt amortization I/                     19.5      25.4     23.5      23.3     19.9      21.1     23.2
IMF repurchases                           0.5       1.0      1.7       3.2      6.2       8.4      8.9
Arrears (increase-)                       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Change in net foreign
assets (increase+) 2/                    3.7    -10.6    -10.6      -6.4      13.9     23.9      22.7
Resources                                 214.3    209.4    224.0    264.4    263.3    271.6    279.5
OfficialLtransfers(currentandcapital)   149.4    143.8    149.5    129.7    138.8    144.1    147.5
Long-term public loan
disbursement (gross)                   52.5      47.3     69.6      63.0     70.0      81.8      82.1
Of which: World Bank 3/               0.0       0.0     13.3       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Private capital (net)                     6.4       4.8     -8.5      25.1      8.4       7.3     13.2
Debt rescheduling                         1.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Debt under discussion 4/                   ...      2.8      2.8       2.4       ...      ...       ...
Use of IMLF resources                     4.9      10.6     10.5      10.1      9.3       9.2      9.2
SAF                                     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
ESAF                                    4.9      10.6     10.5     10.1       9.3       9.2      9.2
Exceptionalfmancing5/                     0.0       0.0      0.0      34.2     36.9      29.1     27.5
Memorandum item:
CFA francs per SDR (average)            743.4    802.0    794.2    828.9    830.8    824.3    818.5
Sources: Burkinabe authorities; and staff estimates and projections.
1/ Scheduled debt service, before debt relief.
2/ Excluding use of Fund resources (net).
3/ Adjustment loans.
4/ Debt in negotiation with non-Paris Club creditors.
5/ Adjustment loans and grants.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Burkina Faso
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                    disbursemen,s a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 39
Active Projects
BF-PE-50886      1999   GOVERNMENT                        PRIVATE IRRIGATION                         0.00         5.20        0.00               4.95          .50         0.00
BF-PE-296        1998   GOVERNMENT                        AG SERVICES II                             0.00        41.30        0.00              37.08        10.34         1.87
BF-PE-283        1997   GVT OF BURKINA                    MINING CAPACITY BUIL                       0.00       21.40         0.00              17.51         1.85         0.00
BF-PE-304        1997   GOVT OF BURKINA FASO               POST-PRIMARY EDUC.                        0.00       26.00         0.00              21.29         4.86         0.00
BF-PE-297        1995   GOVERNMENT                        URBAN ENV                                  0.00        37.00        0.00              23.96        12.84        12.82
BF-PE-287        1994   BURKINA FASO                      HEALTH/NUTRITION                           0.00       29.20         0.00              12.99         9.14         -.82
BF-PE-308        1994   GOVT OF BURKINA FASO               POPULATION/AIDS CONT                      0.00       26.30         0.00              11.21         9.98         0.00
BF-PE-289        1993   BURKINA FASO                      PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS                       0.00         7.00        0.00               3.54         3.53         3.41
BF-PE-303        1993   GOVT                               FOOD SECURITY                             0.00         7.50        0.00                 .29        -.05         0.00
BF-PE-276        1992   BURKINA FASO                      TRANSPORT SECAL                            0.00       96.00         0.00               9.33         6.66         6.71
BF-PE-301        1992   GOVERNMENT                         PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL                      0.00        15.00        0.00               5.29         4.96         0.00
Total                                                                                                0.00      281.90         0.00             147.43        64.51        23.99
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  129.52               614.89               744.41
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               38.01                38.01
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  281.90               539.47               821.37
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                1.95                 1.05
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                 1.85                 1.95
Total Undisbursed                 :              147.43                   .05              147.48
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.
(D



Annex E
Burkina Faso
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project:  7 months
Appraisal:                          July-August 1999
Negotiations:                       September 1999
Board Presentation:                 December 1999
Effectiveness Date :                December 1999
Closing Date:                       June 30, 2000



tUhL1 E1MNANCF;                                                 a22.So 
Tax structure and    Continue the         Maximum tariff was reduced from 31 Reduce maximum tariff from 25  Cabinet approval by    Measures to be effectiv
Tax Administration   implementation of the  percent to 25 percent (7/98)   percent to 20 percent            September 30, 1999, to on January 1, 2000.
Common External                                                                        introduce the measure i
Expand the tax base,   tariff (CET) per   Promulgated law tightening tax                                    the draft budget bill for New tariffs reflected in
enhance the efficiency  WAEMTU agreement   collection procedures (1999).                                    year 2000. Parliament the 2000 Budget Law.
of the tax system and                                                                                       to adopt budget bill by
strengthen tax                            Revenue performance was miptuved                                  November 30, 1999.
administration                            in 1998 through strengthened tax
administration and strong control/   Reduce the corporate income tax rate  Study on marginal  Idem
elimination of exemptions on import from 40 percent to 35 percent; and    effective tax rate starte
duties under the investment and  conduct a study to further lower the   by December 1999.
mining codes.                   rate to 30 percent or 25 percent by
2001;
A study to evaluate fiscal exemptions
was carried out in 1998 and an action                                                  To be monitored with
plan for their gradual elimination was Ensure that the two major tax offices  By October 30, 1999   the IM
adopted.                        (Kadiogo I and Houet I) are fully
computerized;
Procedures to replace exemptions for
purchases made through externally   Introduction of withholding at custom  Cabinet approval by    Idem
funded projects was replaced by a    and on purchases from wholesalers, to September 30, 1999, to
procedure of refunding taxes, duties  be applied against profit taxes  introduce the measure i.
and levies paid in connection with                                the draft budget bill for
such procurement. (1999)                                          year 2000. Parliament t
adopt budget bill by
All border customs otfices were                                   November 30, 1999.
computerized (1999).
PU       - EJ1DURE MAAI2                -: . 7>.                    .g.  .  .......   . .. --  .......
Improve the efficiency  Allocate adequate  Budget Guidelines for the preparation Issue the terms of reference and recrui Government approval b, New tariffs reflected in
and effectiveness of    resources to the  of the 2000 budget were issued with  consultants for the four studies in the  September 30, 1999.   the Budget Law and all
public expenditures to  Education and Health  indicative sectoral ceilings for health  framework of the public expenditure       implementation decrees
reflect the overarching  sectors          (12 percent) and education (13   review (education, health, financial                   adopted (by January
priority of poverty                       percent).                        decentralization, and public investmen_                2000)
3 Some of these measures are already in progress. They will all be implemented before Board approval.                                                         x
x
0



reduction.                                                                   program); the first drafts for all these                Prepare objective-based
studies should be available by                          budget for the ministrie.
December 31, 1999;                                      of Health, Finance,
Territorial
Adopt the plan of action and timetable Idem             Administration,
for the extension of the MTEF                           Defense, Basic
approach to all key Goveinment                          Education, and
ministries by year 2001;                                Secondary/Higher
Education (2001)
Prepare and send to Parliament the    October 1999
year-end budget execution report for                    Set sectoral spending
the 1993 and 1994 budgets (lois de                      targets based on
and consultations with
Ensure coherence     Improve budgetary     A MTEF limited to key-sectors is                                                          beneficiaries/donors
between              planning, control and   being prepared. It includes a three-                                                    (1999-02)
macroeconomic        monitoring systems.    year rolling plan for allocation o
framework and a                            resources.                                                                                Prepare sectoral
medium-term                                                                                                                          financial envelopes
expenditure framework  Develop and         Coherence of PIP with sectoral                                                            consistent with
(MTEF)               implement a result-    priorities and strategies assured in                                                     macroeconomic
oriented MTEF based   1998.                                                                                    projections (1999-02)
on sectoral policies and
fiscal discipline.   Macroeconomic forecasts for 1999-                                                         In the framework of the
2002 were prepared; they are                                                              SPA Initiative on
consistent with 1999-2002 budgets                                                         Reformulated
and IMf-ESAF criteria.                                                                    Conditionality, a set of
performance indicators
Develop system of ex-  A computerized monitoring system                                                        will be adopted for:
post evaluation of    for public expenditure is in place.                                                      Education, Health,
outcomes.                                                                                                      Agriculture, and
Livestock
BUDGE TAlRY PRO Fl 'DUESA0---jT. i            . .. . .                         ....
Improve public sector  Improve transparency   A monitoring system for fmancial   Integrate the payroll management  December 1999     Produce quarterly
efficiency while     in public expenditure   information management is in place  system (SYGASPE) into the                           projections of financing
increasing Governumelit mnanagemieiit      (circuit de la depense)           Goverminent's financial management                      requairemients/allocation
productivity through                                                         system [circuit de la depenses];                        taking into account
0



improved budgetary                                                                                                                potential fragility of
procedures                                                                                                                        revenue due to the
implementation of the
CET.
'    A -y FRAMEW                                                                                               . .........O..
Improve the          Liberalize the       The Government passed            Establish the regulatory authority for  November 1999  Regulatory authority
competitiveness of    telecommunications    Law 051/98/AN of 12/4/98,     the telecommunications sector,                          established
Burkina's economy    sector               reforming the telecommunications
through enhanced                          sector, and Law 058/98/AN of                                                            Call for bids for sale of
human capital and                         12/16/98 on the partial privatization                                                   ONATEL (2000)
reduced input and                         of ONATEL.
transaction costs                                                                                                                 M obile telephone
licenses granted (2000)
F-h
U,



Annex G
Page 1 of 2
Burkina Faso at a glance
POVERT  iand SOCIAL                                 Burkina   Saharan   ig Low-
Faso     Africa   Inc ome|  Development diamond*
1998
PopulatiOn, mid-year (millions)                         11t3       628     3,515                  Lifeexpectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      240        480       520
GNP (Atlas method, =/$U biff/ohs)                        2.7       304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                           2.;       2.6        1.7
Laborforce (%0)                                          2.1       2.6        19      Gpe                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate;(latest year available, 199248)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty/ine)     45
Urban popuation %of topoplation)                         17         33        31
Life*ptan.cy at birth (years)                            46         51        63
Infant nortality (per 1,000 ive births):                 97       :1j         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               33          :. ..                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   78         47        74
Ilfiteracy (% of population ageS 15+                     81         42        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age popuatioan)0   38         77   ;ji 108               -Burkina Faso
Male                                                   46         84       113                   Low-income group
Female                                                 30         69       103   |_,
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998   r
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billions)                              1.0      2.2       2.4        2.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 22.1      20.9      27.0       28.6                     Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP              9.0      10.6      11.2       13.8
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                       -1.1      0.6       10.5      12.4
Gross national savings/GDP                     -1.1      8.2      16.8       18,6
Current acmunt balancelGDP                    -15.7    -12.7      -10.2      -9.6      Do tic
Interest payments/GOP                          0.2       0.7        0.6       0.2      omestcviInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                16.4      38.4       53.5      52.2          gs                        n
Totaldebtservicelexports                       3.1       9.0       23.5      15.9
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports :ndebted:es
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)                                       0:l    0
GOP                                   3.7      3.1       47        6.2        5.5             -Burkina Faso
GNP per capita                        1.2      0.3       1.7       3.4        2.9                   Low-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices             0.7      0.9      14.2      10.5        5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment 1%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   34.3      31.5       31.8      32.0     60
Industry                                      24.4      24.0      26.9       27.8     40
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..                          20
Services                                      41.3      44.5       41.3      40.3 - 20                   9s   96   97   98
Private consumption                           89.7      84.5      74.9       73.0    -40
General govemment consumption                 11.3      14.9      14.6       14.7                     GD1    --e-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 32.1      30.9      27.7       30.0                     G
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.5       3.0       -1.3       5.5   320
Industry                                       3.6       2.2      10.6       10.9    20
Manufacturing                                 2.8       ..                          10 
Services                                       6.2       3.2       8.0        4.5             93   94          96 07    98
Private consumption                            2.9       2.9       3.6        6.8   -20
General government consumption                 8.4       2.4        5.7       6.2   -30
Gross domestic investment                      7.2       3.2        0.2       0.9    40 -
Imports of goods and services                  3.6       1.4        0.9       5.5               -Exports        e-Imports
Gross national product                         3.7       3.1        4.5       6.3   _
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
Burkina Faso
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestc prices
(% change)                                                                          25
Consumer prices                                 ..    -2.9         2.3      2.5    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         18.7      1.6        2.2      3.1     1 5
10
Government finance                                                                  1
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o   ---4
Current revenue                                 ..    12.2        13.8     14.4    -s       93    94   es    96    97    98
Current budget balance                           ..     1.2        3.7       4.0             -GDP deflator  OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -23.6        -9.5     -8.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             .,       ,.       229       307     649
Cotton                                         ..       ..       128      207
Meat                                                              45       46      487
Manufactures                                   ..       ..        39       38
Total imports (cit)                             ..       ,,       510       607     324
Food                                          7. ..              71       111
Fuel and energy                                .         .        69       72
Capital goods                                                    155      196       a
92   93   94   95   96   97   a8
Export pfice index (1995=100)                    ..      ..       102        98
Import price index(1995=100)                     ..      ..       110       104               aExports        Imports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                         ..      ..        93        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio 
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                  112      229       267       359       0
Imports of goods and services                 316       667       660       772      -2
Resource balance                              -203     -438      -393      -413
Net income                                       6        0        -13      -12
Net current transfers                           40      164       164       174      -6
Current account balance                       -157     -274      -242      -251    |-
Financing items (net)                          139      307       208       218   |-10 
Changes in net reserves                         18      -33        35        33   |12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..    323         350       373
Conversion rate (DEC, 16caYUS$)              245.7    300.5      583.7    585.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           164      828      1,275    1,358
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0
IDA                                          31      221        690       710
Total debt service                               6       36        87        74
IBRD                                          0         0         0         0
IDA                                           0        2         10        10        D:585
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     B: 690)
Official grants                              42       110       207       225
Official creditors                             1       99         0        38
Private creditors                              1       -4         0         0
Foreign direct investment                     5         0         0         0
Portfolio equity                               0        0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   13        0        12        15      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 13       22        47        42      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0         1         5         5      C- IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                    13       21         42        37
Interest payments                             0        2          5         5
Net transfers                                13        20        37        32
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/3/99



Annex H
(English translation)
BURKINA FASO                                     November 4, 1999
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
AND FINANCE
Attention: Mr. James D. WOLFE,NSOHN
President
The World Bank
Letter of Development Policy of Burkina Faso
Mr. President:
1.    This letter of development policy presents the strategy adopted by the
Government of Burkdna Faso to accelerate economic growth in order to fight poverty.
2.    Burkina Faso has been carrying out a far-reaching program of economic reforms
since 1991, with the assistance of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World
Bank. Two three-year programs siupported by arrangements under the IMF's Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility and. by World Bank structural adjustment loans (SAC I,
ERC, and ERMSO) and sector adjustment loans (SECAL, PASA, and PASEC-T) have
been successfully implemented. These programs were designed to lay the groundwork
for a market economy in which the private sector would gradually take over the
Government's role as the primary player in the development process.
3.    However, ten years after iritiating the bold reforms which brought the average
growth rate to 4 percent during the first five years and to 5 percent during the second half
of the decade, Burkina Faso remains one of the poorest countries on the planet, with a per
capita GDP of US$217 in 1997. According to the conclusions of a 1998 study on the
poverty profile in Burkina Faso, nearly half of its population (46 percent) is living below
the absolute poverty threshold estirnated at CFAF 72,000, which translates into less than
CFAF200 per day per person (less than $US 0.35). This situation is aggravated by
illiteracy, which affects four out of five persons, to make it one of the highest rates in the
world. Health indicators are low iin comparison with other countries in the subregion.
Life expectancy in Burkina Faso is 50 years and the infant mortality rate is 98 per
thousand.
4.    Concerned over this situation, the Government adopted a development strategy,
following a recently completed study on the country's competitiveness and growth
prospects conducted by a team of national experts. This strategy is based on a more
ambitious human resource policy, a redefinition of the Government's role, promotion of
the private sector, and an export-led orientation to integrate the economy into the region
and the world.
5.    The present development policy letter is part of this dynamic new approach. We
will begin by reporting on the status of implementation of the previous World Bank
adjustment loan, and then we will put forward clear proposals as part of the
Government's new development strategy.



Annex H
I - THE SAC II IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
6.    The second structural adjustment loan (SAC II, known as ERMSO) for SDR 11
million or US$15 million), was adopted on November 5, 1998. Its primary objective was
to support the country's global adjustment program described in the 1998-2000 Policy
Framework Paper. It was intended to (i) support Burkina Faso in its West African
regional integration process, with the entry into force on January 1, 2000 of a CET
(common external tariff adopted at the level of the WAEMU), and (ii) economic and
public finance management, in accordance with the medium-term development prospects
defined by the Government in the 1998-2000 PFP.
Accomplishment of the Primary Macroeconomic Objectives
*  Restoring Economic Growth
7.    During the 1994-98 period, the macroeconomic objectives were broadly achieved.
Real GDP increased by 3.6 percent per year on average from 1985 to 1998, from CFAF
663.1 billion to 1,056.3 billion. From 1985 to 1991, the performance of the GDP was
marked by repeated phases of growth followed by recession. The economy was highly
dependent on the primary sector, mainly agriculture but weather conditions were
irregular, thereby affecting agricultural production.
8.    From 1991 to 1994, the average annual growth rate was 1.3 percent. Although
this poor performance can be attributed to a gloomy international economic environment
and unfavorable world prices for raw materials, the causes were more deep-seated and
included a steady decline in terms of trade, reflecting the loss of economic
competitiveness, poor implementation of reforns under the Structural Adjustment
Program, and most importantly, rumors of a CFAF devaluation in 1993, which were not
conducive to establishing a climate of confidence for investors. Following the January
1994 devaluation, real GDP declined by 1.2 percent, reflecting a drop in the secondary
sector of 2.4 percent and in the tertiary sector of 2.7 percent. This reduction was mainly
attributed to a drop in domestic demand linked to the lower purchasing power of
households and to the wait-and-see attitude adopted by economic operators.
9.    After the devaluation, GDP increased by 4.1 percent in 1995, 6.2 percent in 1996,
5.5 percent in 1997, and 5.7 percent in 1998. Although the primary sector continues to be
the engine of economic growth, the other two sectors are not lagging behind.
* Price Trends
10.   Price increased in 1994 due to the mechanical effect of devaluation and the
consumer price index rose at a steady pace. Inflation was 6.1 percent in 1996, 7.3 percent
in 1997, and 4.9 percent in 1998 (the latter can be explained by the 1997 harvest, which
drove up prices of farm products).
* Public Revenue
11.   Since 1994, Government finance has improved as a result of increased budget
revenue and effective Government spending controls. From 1996 to 1998, current
revenue increased by 24 percent, and the share of tax revenue on average accounted for
92 percent. In spite of these promising results, the tax ratio stagnated at 12 percent of



Annex H
GDP, and the ratio of Government own revenues to GDP stabilized at 13 percent. The
structure of tax receipts changed, as taxes on goods and services increased by 82 percent,
while taxes on foreign trade only increased by 5.5 percent in those two years (the share of
fiscal receipts from international trade dropped from 50.8 percent to 43.5 percent of fiscal
revenue).
12.   Grants averaged 27 percent of total revenue between 1985 and 1995 and increased
by 86.8 percent in 1996 (compared to 1995). They accounted for 29.6 percent of total
revenue in 1998, as compared to 35.5 percent in 1996. The decline recorded was in
grants to the Treasury and not in project grants.
* Public Expenditures
13.   From 1990 to 1994, total expenditure rose by 73.4 percent, capital expenditure by
tIl percent and current expenditure by 54 percent, despite the fact that the wage bill was
brought under control. In 1995 the budget ratios for Government spending showed an
improvement. By 1998, the wage bill accounted for only 45.5 percent of current
expenditure (still higher than the convergence criterion of the WAEMU set at a
maximum of 40 percent). Current expenditure was 10.4 percent of GDP in 1998, down
from 11.6 percent in 1995.
14.   During the 1996-1998 period, a considerable effort was made to increase capital
expenditure financed from the Government own resources, from CFAF 15.7 billion to
47.7 billion (from 13 percent to 29 percent of total investment expenditure and from 1.3
percent to 3.1 percent of GDP. This outcome can be attributed to considerable progress
made in budget savings.
15.   Budget savings had declined steadily from 1985 to 1994, from CFAF 14.2 billion,
to -22.3 billion. From 1995 to 1998, however, budget savings rose from 0.6 percent to
2.7 percent of GDP. As for the Government deficit on cash basis, the growth from CFAF
15.1 billion to CFAF 46.5 billion between 1996 and 1998 is due to the evolution of
capital expenditures, which recorded increases of 26.7 percent in 1997, and 10.8 percent
in 1998, and to constant efforts to reduce payment arrears.
*  Public debt and PaymentArrears
16.   The outstanding debt has increased steadily, from CFAF178 billion in 1985 to
CFAF 793.1 billion in 1998. This reflects an average increase in the outstanding debt of
more than 12 percent a year. Burkina Faso, however, has benefited from several large
debt cancellations: CFAF 660.2 b.i]lion in 1989 under the Dakar initiative; and CFAF70
billion following the devaluation under the Dakar II initiative. Between 1995 and 1998,
the average annual growth rate was 4.1 percent for the external debt and 7.5 percent for
the internal debt.
17.   The debt service to GDP ratio increased by an average of 7.8 percent a year from
1985 to 1998, evolving at a slower pace than the outstanding debt. Borrowing terms have
evolved toward more concessionary loans. From 1995 to 1998, the average debt service
was 21.3 percent of current revenue. Although these levels are acceptable, they need to
be carefully monitored, as budget r evenues are still relatively unstable, and debt service
weighs heavily on the Government budget.



Annex H
18.   The ratio of external debt service to exports has improved since 1995, from 21.2
percent to 15.5 percent in 1998. This steady trend is an encouraging, and even though the
1998 perfonnance is attributed to a boom in exports, (+36.5 percent), this downward
trend is expected to continue.
19.   Arrears on the external debt have been paid up in full since 1996, with the
exception of a sum left pending on loans granted by Libya and the former USSR for less
than CFAF 5 billion. Arrears on the internal debt have been stabilized at CFAF 16
billion since 1997.
Structural Reforms
* Impact of the WAEMU
20.   Burkina Faso is participating in the integration process that was initiated in the
WAEMU in 1994. One of the key steps in this process is the establishment of a customs
union in 2000. A transitional preferential trade regime and a schedule of intermediate
steps for introducing the CET have been adopted.  Effective July 1, 1996, the
Government adopted a 30 percent reduction in import duties on industrial products from
approved countries, exempting unfinished products and traditional arts and crafts from all
taxes and duties applied on entering member states, and a 5 percent reduction in import
duties or fees on nonauthorized products. On July 1, 1997, the reduction on authorized
industrial goods was raised to 60 percent. It was further increased to 80 percent on July
1, 1999, and will be at 100 percent as of July 2000.
21.   The current fiscal system has four categories of duties and taxes, as follows: a
customs duty levied at a uniform rate of 5 percent; an import duty with three rates,
corresponding to different categories of products (0 percent for category 1, 4 percent for
category 2, and 26 percent for category 3); a special intervention tax of 2 percent; and, a
statistics tax of 4 percent. These last two taxes are applied to all imports, since they are
for services rendered. Initially, the tax and duty base was the CIF value of imports, but
the 1998 appropriation law expanded the base to include customs duties for computation
of certain taxes.
22.   With implementation of the CET, the tax system will comprise four categories of
products and four customs duty rates, at 0, 5, 10, and 20 percent. The CET will also apply
a 1 percent statistics tax. In the meantime, Burkina Faso, following the example of all the
Union countries, received special authorization to apply internediate rates. Hence, from
July 1, 1998, to June 30, 1999, the Government has applied a maximum customs duty of
30 percent (i.e., a 1 percent reduction in customs duties, strictly speaking). It has applied
the new WAEMU categories since January 1, 1999, and it applies maximum customs
taxes of 0, 5, 10, and 25 percent. This reflects a six-point differential in comparison with
the current highest rate in the Union.
23.   The adoption and implementation of these various measures are expected to result
in a decline in fiscal revenue. Simulations have shown that the lost revenue would
account for about 1 percent of GDP for the first two years, and for 2 percent the third
year. The impact of the new customs tariff could be considerable during the 1999-2002
period, even after reduction of the debt service under the HIlPC (heavily indebted poor
countries), estimated at 1.2 percent of GDP.



Annex H
* Mobilization of Government resources
24.   Enlarging the tax base. The Government has taken steps to expand the tax base.
To fight tax evasion, it promulgated a law (Law N38/98/ADP of July 30, 1998) to
increase collections. It covers withholding at the source, the customs band, (cordon
douanier), and purchases from wholesalers, to be applied against profit taxes. Draft texts
have been prepared and are expected to be submitted to the National Assembly in 1999.
The withholding at source is scheduled to be applied in July 2000.
25.   In addition, with a view to organizing the system of exemptions more effectively
to mitigate the distorting effects on the economy, two studies on exemptions have been
initiated. The report on the first study was submitted in September 1998. It analyzed the
legal bases of the different categories of exemptions, evaluated their financial cost, and
included proposals to reduce exernptions to a maximum of 10 percent of tax revenue.
Proposals involve eliminating special exemptions, reducing exemptions granted under the
investment code, and maintaining, the exemptions linked to externally-funded projects
and exemptions granted under the system of diplomatic privileges. Terms of reference of
the second study have been approved by Government. The study will focus on an
economic analysis of the costs and benefits of exemptions and.should be completed in
1999.
26.   The measure designed to bring an end to exemptions involving indirect taxes and
foreign trade taxes under the investment code cannot be implemented until the investment
code is harmonized in the WAEMIJ.
27.   Finally, as part of the Government's effort to fight fraud, additional resources are
granted to the National Anti-Fraud Coordination Unit.
Improvement of the customs and tax administration
28.   DGI (Tax Department). In order to ensure effective monitoring of economic
operators, accurate infornation on taxpayers must be collected by financial agencies.
The computerization of the DGI, specifically as regards registration and integrated
management of taxes is in the process of being completed. A software comprising three
modules (identification and monitoring of taxpayers; determination of the tax base; and
tax collection) is currently in place but is not operational and must be improved. The
taxpayers file must be updated in real time. To do this, the DGI has developed a project
to reform its data processing system, including forecasting. The computerization of the
two main offices of the DGI (Kadiogo I and Houet I) has been completed. The necessary
equipment and softwares have been purchased and are currently being tested.
29.   Customs. To make the customs service more effective and to improve statistics,
computerization of the customs offices began in 1996 (SYDONIA system). Work on two
offices (repairs and research on an effective equipment) still has to be completed between
now and the end of the year. The computerization of customs data was tested at the
airport and this test was completed in November 1998.
30.   Free circulation of goods as stipulated by WAEMU requires a strong system for
control of values and origin of goods. Since 1992, Burkina Faso has used the services of
the SGS (Societe Generale de Surveillance) to ensure the prior control of imported goods.
This agency has cooperated in the effort to set up a database on values for Customs. A



Annex H
manual record prepared on the basis of data collected from the SGS and customs offices
is periodically updated by an ad hoc committee. The system will be further developed
with the installation of a new computer program. A list of values was drawn up during
the second quarter of 1999 and made available to customs offices, the data base and the
liaison with the SGS are operational
31.   Harmonization of the budget nomenclature as been completed as part of the
harmonization of budget procedures in the WAEMU region.
* Public Expenditure Management
32.   Current expenditures will be maintained at an average of 10.5 percent of GDP
during the 1999-2002 period. This measure, which is designed to limit Government
spending and gradually change its composition in favor of priority sectors, such as health,
education, and infrastructure maintenance, has been carried out since the end of 1998.
33.   The Government will prepare a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF), to
be updated every year, to cover the following: (i) the public investment program; and (ii)
recurrent expenses, which must be in line with objectives related to social and
infrastructure indicators (1999-2002). This measure is also designed to limit Government
spending and gradually modify its composition in favor of priority sectors such as health,
education, and infrastructure maintenance. The Government is committed to preparing
program budgets for the six key ministries identified in the April 1999 budget guidelines.
The program budgets-presenting a medium-term framework for public expenditures
programming in those sectors-will be sent to Parliament with the fiscal year 2001 draft
budget bill.
34.   To improve the effectiveness of Government financial management and budget
preparation and monitoring, the Government has begun computerizing the Ministry of
Finance, giving priority to the investment expenditures control unit and payroll
management. For investments, the expenditure system for investments funded with
domestic resources has been in operation since 1996. Implementation of the second one,
which pertains to externally-financed investments (including loans and grants), has been
delayed because it has taken longer than expected to enter the data on all the financing
agreements due to their complexity. As for the payroll, the specific expenditure circuit
module was included in the "Integrated Administrative and Wage Management System
for Government Employees (SYGASPE)." The system was started up in August 1999.
* Strengthening statistics
35.   The 1996 national survey work was completed and the results were published in
June 1998. The final 1989-93 accounting series were published in 1998. The 1994-96
series has not yet been completed. But the evaluation plan of the priority II survey on
households has been issued. A socioeconomic data bank focussing on priority sectors
such as education and health has been created with the preparation of a set of key social
indicators.
36.   An automated system for management of public debt statistics, using the
SYGADE software, was implemented in 1998 when all the necessary equipment was
purchased and installed in the network. A solution must still be found, however, to some
problems in the flow of information among the various offices involved, including the



Annex H
Public Debt Department, the Cooperation Division (Direction Generale de la
Cooperation), and the Central Bank).
* Restructuring public enterprises
37.   As part of the reorganization of the telecommunications sector, the National
Assembly adopted a law authorizing partial privatization of the National
Telecommunications Company (O0N4ATEL) in December 1998. It provides for the partial
sale of Government shares in ONATEL, establishment of a regulatory authority, and
opening of the sector to private investors. The implementing provisions are in the
process of being drafted. The Government also approved a law to open the electricity
sector to private investment.
II- BURKINA FASO'S DEVELLOPMENT STRATEGY
38.   The Government is aware that the success of the new development strategy based
on export promotion requires a massive investment in the productive sectors of the
national economy. These investments should come from the private sector. However,
this cannot be accomplished unless the Government creates conditions conducive to high
return on private investments in the various sectors of the national economy. The
Government's policy will therefore focus on two major objectives:
- Removing the constraints in the productive sectors by: (a) reducing the cost of essential
services, such as water, electricity, and telephone; b) establishing tax incentives, (c)
building physical infrastructure in adequate quantities, of a good quality, and at reduced
costs; (d) providing the productive sectors with skilled labor in sufficient quantity and in
good health; (e) helping to build the organizational and operating capacities of private
sector operators; and (f) facilitating access to credit.
- Promoting good governance through transparent and effective management of the state,
strengthening of the technical and organizational capacity of legislative and consultative
institutions, respect for the independence of the judiciary, and strengthening of the role of
civil society and the private sector.
Removing Constraints on the Productive Sector
39.   The productive sectors are the primary sources of growth.  They can be
subdivided into the following three sectors: the primary sector, consisting of agriculture,
livestock, forestry, and fishing; the secondary sector, comprised of industry, mines, and
construction and civil engineering works; and., the tertiary sector, consisting of trade,
transportation, banking, and insurarnce. Government policy will be designed to develop
all three sectors. The industrial development strategy will be geared to meeting the needs
of the agricultural sector in terms of equipment and inputs on the one hand, and to
processing farm and livestock products, on the other. Mining will be the second source
of growth. The activity of these two sectors will fuel the development of activities in the
tertiary sector.
40.   This strategic choice is based on the conclusions of several studies which showed
that Burkina Faso could have a ccmparative advantage in the following products and
industries: cotton and textiles (spimning, weaving, dying, manufactured clothing, and



Annex H
haute couture); fruits and vegetables (mangos and green beans); livestock sector (cattle
and meat); and leather and skins (tanneries, shoe factories, and leather goods).
41.     Development of these potentially profitable businesses is hampered today by
various constraints which must be eased if these sectors are to be successfully revitalized.
These constraints can be sector specific or more broadly related to the system of
incentives and human resources.
* Constraints on the Primary Sector
Agriculture
42.   Access to land. The main constraint in the agricultural sector is related to land
access. To promote land improvements and productive investments in the agricultural
sector, the Government initiated a complete reform of land laws in 1984. The process led
to the adoption of an agrarian reform law, which provides guidelines for the development
and management of Government-owned land, and the codes governing specific sectors,
such as the environmental code, forestry code, mining code, and water code. A pasture
lands code and an agricultural investment code are in the process of being prepared, as
are regulations to implement the codes already adopted. Work to complete these texts
will be stepped up, since implementation of these laws is critical to facilitating access by
all to the land. An extensive information campaign will be conducted to circulate these
laws among the population.
43.   Sustainable natural resource management. Land is the primary factor for
agricultural production. Government action in this area will be geared to promoting
recapitalization of the land by making wide-scale use of Burkina Phosphate as a basic
fertilizer, combined with complementary techniques (use of organic matter, soil and
water conservation/restoration   practices, etc.).  Moreover, the participatory land
management approach will be expanded to cover all villages by the year 2010.
Application of the environmental and water policy will also be pursued, with an emphasis
on efforts to control desertification.
44.   Access to farn equipment. Access to equipment will be a key factor in boosting
agricultural production.  The Government will conduct a study to determine the
components of equipment and animal traction costs and will take the necessary steps to
reduce those costs. It will ensure that the introduction of equipment is accompanied by
conservation measures to preserve the soil from degradation. It will promote the
production and maintenance of equipment by local craftsmen at competitive prices.
While waiting for the results from the equipment cost study, the Government will look
into the possibility of reducing taxes on equipment and inputs. It will implement a farm
mechanization support plan, prepared with the assistance of the FAO.
45.   Access to inputs. Modernizing the agriculture and livestock sectors will require an
increase in the use of inputs, such as improved seeds, organic and inorganic fertilizers,
pesticides, medicine and vaccines, and vitamins and minerals, in addition to
mechanization. At the present time, the use of equipment and purchased inputs is low
outside of cotton plantations and intensive peri-urban livestock husbandry.  The
Government will take steps to fully liberalize input and equipment supplies, which will



Annex H
mostly involve producer organizations for matters related to credits and advisory
services.
46.   Access to credit. There are two types of producers in Burkina Faso's agricultural
sector: i) a large number of small:holder farmers organized in cooperatives; and ii) a few
large farmers whose numbers could rapidly increase if access to credit was eased. The
Government will encourage the development of micro-finance institutions which benefit
smallholder farmers, and will look into the possibility of developing financial instruments
adapted to the needs of large farmiers as part of an effort to seek a global solution to the
problem of financing sizeable investments.
Livestock
47.   Livestock is the second largest source of foreign currency for Burkina Faso, after
cotton, and could make an even greater contribution to balancing foreign trade if steps
were taken to improve the quality of the animals and farm management. For this reason,
the Government's strategy in livestock husbandry is geared toward intensifying the
principal production systems. For instance, for the commercial peri-urban livestock
operations (mainly around Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso), the objective of future
programs is to increase the efficiency of the operations through training in management,
improved animal nutrition, and animal health. For sedentary, village livestock husbandry
systems (in the southern and central parts of the country), the programs will include crop
forage production, conservation, and marketing, the processing and marketing of dairy
products; fattening of cattle and sheep on pasture, use of available agricultural products,
such as waste or residues, byproducts, and hay, and improvement of the genetic quality of
breeds. For mobile, pastoral livestock husbandry systems (in the northern part of the
country), measures will include organization of grazing lands (i.e., forming pastoral
groups and training their members) and implementation of a program for participatory
management of pasture and water resources. In addition, integration of the three systems
will be examined.
Support for producer organizations in the agricultural and livestock sectors
48.    The lack of professionalism and organization of producers is one of the major
obstacles to solving problems in these sectors. This situation has a negative impact on
the quality of agricultural products and is responsible for maintaining cost inefficiencies.
The emergence of producer organizations in different sectors is relatively recent in
Burkina Faso. The Government will encourage this trend and promote access on the part
of these organizations to lines of credit offered by financial agencies.
Rural infrastructure
49.    Rural roads and rangeland water resources are key elements for developing the
agriculture and livestock sectors. The Government will therefore improve coordination
between the agriculture and transportation ministries for selection of priority roadways,
and between the animal resources and water ministries in selecting sites for water
infrastructure.
Agronomic research
50.    Agronomic research is the main source of technological to improve yields. For
this reason, the Government will pursue the implementation of measures defined in the



Annex H
strategic research plan adopted in 1995. In addition, it will promote cooperation on a
larger scale between INERA and IRSAT and agro-industrial operators, cooperatives,
organizations of small farmers, and trade associations, to identify with their customers the
technologies to be developed and to involve them in participating in financing the
research. To capitalize on the know-how developed elsewhere, and to improve the cost-
efficiency ratio, INERA and IRSAT will increase their participation in regional research
networks, specifically under the aegis of CORAF or the international centers.
Agricultural trade
51.    The Government will study the potential sources of efficiency gains in trade
circuits, by systematically using the information existing on the markets.
Agricultural exports
52.    Burkina Faso's exports of farm products are affected by the following factors:
the poor organization of producers; the lack of professionalism; and, the landlocked
nature of the country, a situation made worse by logistical and transportation systems
which are relatively ineffective and create additional costs. The main features of the
export promotion program are as follows: i) facilitating the export trade, by simplifying
procedures, improving transportation and storage logistics, developing new overland
export corridors and encouraging competition in the air transport sector; ii) improvement
of tax exemption procedures for export products; iii) introduction of quality standards, a
quality label, and quality control structures; iv) creation or strengthening of trade
organizations by establishing branches; and v) promotion of contractual agriculture,
including special laws, financing, search for partners, and similar measures.
* Constraints on the Secondary Sector
The manufacturing sector
53.    This is the principal sector for providing regular employment and tax revenue. It
is dominated by import substitute enterprises. Protected for a long time by high customs
barriers, the survival of these units is threatened today by the integral opening of the
WAEMU market, which will be effective as of the year 2000. Most of these industries
have outdated equipment and have problems obtaining supplies of spare parts and inputs.
Moreover, they are penalized by the high cost of energy, transportation, labor, and taxes.
In view of these difficulties, the Government intends to revise its industrial policy to give
priority to industries that process agricultural and livestock products. An effort will be
made to find the best sources for purchasing equipment, which should be based on simple
technology adapted to the African climate. Until this new policy is put in place, the
Government short-term policy will be designed to reduce the costs of the factors of
production used in industry, i.e., energy, water, and transportation, and the tax burden.
Input and factor costs
54.   Electricity cost. Electricity is a factor of production that is essential to mass
production of industrial units. Making it available in all the regions at the lowest possible
costs will ease development of processing activities, conservation, and services. It is a
well-known fact that the electricity produced in Burkina Faso is the most expensive in the
subregion. In fact, the price per kWh in Burkina Faso is three times as high as in C6te



Annex H
d'Ivoire.  For several years, the authorities have tried to solve this problem by
implementing projects to link up systems with Cote d'Ivoire. Talks along the same lines
are currently under way with Ghana. In addition to these projects, the Government has
initiated a process to liberalize the electricity sector, which will include privatization of
the sole operator, SONABEL.
55.   Cost of hydrocarbons. Burkina Faso has the highest prices in this field as well.
This situation is primarily attributed to the relatively high cost of transportation, which
accounts for an average of 30 percent to 35 percent of the C(IF storage facility delivery
price. The Government has initiazted a project to build a pipeline between Ghana and
Burkina Faso, which could reduce transport costs by 40 percent. Moreover, a study will
be conducted to liberalize the hydrocarbon sector.
56.   Cost of Water. In this area too, Burkina Faso is by far the most expensive in the
subregion. In the industrial sector, Burkina Faso's water is three times as costly as water
in Benin or Mali, and twice as expensive as water in Cote d'Ivoire. In the short run, the
Government will take steps to improve management of ONEA (state-owned water
company) to reduce its costs.
57.   Cost of Telephone. The Government is accelerating the liberalization process in
the telecommunications sector and the privatization of ONATEL.
The mining industry
58.    Mining is an important future source of exports and economic growth for
Burkina Faso. The Government adopted an attractive mining code in 1997 and will
complete it by adopting the implementing regulations stipulated in the code. It will also
work on implementing other measures, including preparation of a geological map and
construction of a laboratory for analysis. Private national investment in the sector is
currently being promoted.
The construction and civil engineering works sector
59.   This sector has expanded rapidly in recent years, as a result of international
meetings hosted by Burkina Faso between 1997 and 1999, including the France-Africa
Summit, the 1998 African Soccer Cup tournament, the OAU Summit, and the OCI
Summit. However, the sector is plagued by relatively weak operators with little capital,
which lack logistical resources and expertise. The Government will take steps to organize
this sector more effectively. In addition, it will liberalize the cement industry to help
lower prices.
* Constraints on the Tertiary Sector
60.   Transport is a key factor in the competitiveness of the economy. Transport costs
are high in Burkina Faso because the country is landlocked, but more importantly,
because of the monopolistic and oligopolistic structure of markets and high taxes. The
Government will take the necessar, steps to liberalize these sectors and reduce taxes. It
will maintain the roads and help reinforce the capacity of organizations and operators in
the sector.



Annex H
61.   Commerce. This sector is domninated by the informal sector has become a refuge
for tax and customs fraud. The Government will encourage operators in the informal
sector to form economic interest groups.
62.   Banking and insurance. This sector is characterized by its small contributions to
financing long-term investment. The Government will seek solutions to this problem by
setting up a framework for cooperation between banks and the private sector. It will also
take steps to set up new banks in Burkina Faso, to increase competition in the sector,
which will help ease rates and require banks to innovate.
* The System of Incentives
63.   Elements linked to taxes. In spite of the reforms already implemented, the
regulatory system is Burkina Faso still imposes many constraints on businesses. Some
regulations actually hinder the creation of new businesses and promote the development
of informal activities which escape regulation.  In an effort to encourage private
investment, the Government will adopt the following measures to improve the system of
incentives:
Investment Code: The procedure for authorization will be shortened (the authorization
committee will draw up a schedule of regular meetings and will inform private
operators), and the value added thresholds will be reduced.
Customs tariff: The Government will look into the possibility of reducing the rates on
intermediate products, in coordination with other WAEMU members.
Tax code: To encourage the creation of new businesses and fight tax and customs fraud,
the tax system will be simplified and the rate of the profits tax will be lowered. In
general, the Government will endeavor to expand the tax base to alleviate the tax burden
on the formal sector, by exploring the recommendations stemming from studies made on
the subject. In addition, incentives will be adopted to encourage businesses in the
informal sector to register in the formal sector.
Labor code: Designed as an instrument for protecting workers, the present labor code is
not consistent with a sensible approach to macroeconomic management, which should
take into account the interaction between economic growth and employment. There are
still many elements of rigidity in Burkina Faso's labor code, such as: the highest
minimum guaranteed wage (SM:G) in the subregion, at CFAF 136 an hour, as compared
with CFAF 87 in Benin, CFAF 109 in Niger, and CFAF 79 in Togo; compulsory
permanent employment contracts at the third renewal of fixed-term personnel contracts;
and rigid limitations on apprenticeship or trainee contracts.  The present system
encourages many employers to remain outside the regulatory framework. The
Government is convinced that a more flexible labor market is more conducive to creating
jobs. This is why, under the current review of the code, it will revise the SMIG rate, and
will eliminate the clauses on compulsory permanent contracts and apprenticeship
contracts.
Social security code: The Government will examine the possibility of reducing the social
security contributions paid by employers.
64.   The legal framework.  To provide more security to private investors, the
Government will strengthen the judicial system by (a) recruiting enough judges and court
staff; (b) implementing the recommendations that came out of the October 1998 National



Annex H
Forum on Justice; (c) creating corrmmercial courts; and (d) preparing and implementing a
program for specialized training of judges and court employees.
* Human Resource Development
65.    One of the Government top priorities is to provide the productive sectors of the
economy with an abundant supply of skilled labor. In fact, even if all the constraints
were lifted, this factor alone wouald prevent the country's economy from making a
qualitative leap forward. The quality of human resources is contingent on control of
population growth rates and the performance of the education and health systems. In
view of its limited resources, the Grovernment intends to give priority to education as the
key element in solving population problems, while at the same time acknowledging the
importance of and need for pursuing population, social action, and health policies as well.
Besides the fact that it helps improve health and control demographic problems,
education is actually the key to enhancing the skills, and thus, the productivity of labor,
and thereby helping to improve income opportunities. As a result, it is a focal point in
the struggle to reduce poverty.
66.   The Government will gathe:r ideas on reform of the educational system to improve
both its internal performance (i.e., efficiency in terms of cost and quality of the students
educated) and its external performance (i.e., meeting market needs). To accomplish this,
the new policy will pursue two major objectives: (a) universal primary education by the
year 2010; and (b) increase in the number of trade schools by converting certain general
education colleges and high schools, among other measures. These schools will have two
streams: a short program for older children with less aptitude; and a long program for
younger and more gifted children, who could move to more advanced university studies.
A large-scale information campaign will be conducted among all the interested parties,
including private promoters, parenl:s, students, the National Assembly, and civil society,
so as to form a national consensus on this new vision. Substantial resources will be
required to implement this strategy. The Government will considerably increase the
proportion of total budget resources going to education and will appeal to its partners to
mobilize additional funds.
67.   In health, the Government has begun work on a new health policy that will give
priority to (i) making health units operational by offering a minimum package and (ii)
fighting the spread of HIV-AIDS. To facilitate to health centers, until the health
infrastructure can be extended to all provinces, the Government will support itinerant
health workers, who will be provicded with transport means adapted to rural roads. The
policy of distributing essential generic medicine will be pursued, as will hospital reform.
68. Government population policy will focus on controlling population growth by
supporting the flow of information, education, and counseling activities, and by
promoting gender equity.
Promoting Good Governance
69.   The Government is aware that the success of this policy will depend on the extent
to which the agents of the system, i.e., the state, the private sector, and civil society, are
able to play their roles. Promotion of good governance will be one of the cornerstones of



Annex H
the Government's policy to make its development strategy operational, through a
balanced division of roles among the different agents and through institution building.
* The Role of the State
70.   The state is the principal agent for development, not as an entrepreneur, but as a
promoter and regulator of national economic development. The state defines the main
policy lines and strategy for development, establishes the economic rules of the game,
and ensures strict compliance. In addition, it must fulfill the needs for economic and
social infrastructure required for growth, organize the dissemination of information,
ensure coordination of the decisions of private operators, and promote mobilization of the
resources required to finance investments. To accomplish these functions, the state must
have a strong capacity to intervene, to mobilize the resources required to act, and must
provide accountable management.
71.   Since a democratic political system was installed in 1991, the Government has
worked to strengthen the foundations of the state. Among other things, it has embarked
on a policy of modernization and global reform of public administration, to meet the
following main objectives: (a) improving the operational management of Government
agents; (b) improving the quality of public services; (c) making the overall reform of the
public administration operational; and (d), strengthening the decentralization process. In
addition to these reforms, the Government will take steps to build the management
capacity of the state by:
- strengthening the capacity to formulate sustainable development strategies and policies
and monitor them. This will require strengthening the statistical apparatus, improving
decision-making among coordination structures so that they can take the leadership in
economic information and be in a position to recommend sound economic policies and
strategies to the Government;
- building macroeconomic management capacity. This will entail developing forecasting
tools and strengthening macroeconomic management structures;
- strengthening coordination of official development assistance;
- strengthening the capacity to implement, monitor, and evaluate projects. This will
require the improvement of the managerial capacity of project managers, and the
coordination capacity of the research and planning departments in the sectoral ministries;
- strengthening transparent and effective management of public funds. This will be done
by reviewing Government expenditures and consolidating the computerized program
budget and expenditure system. After completion of the various studies underway in the
framework of the public expenditure review, the Government is committed to updating
the organic law on the State financial regime (Loi organiqueportant regime financier de
l 'Etat), in conformity with the WAEMU recommendations;
- strengthening the regulatory capacity, which implies a competent administration
capable of drafting sound regulations and enforcing them;
- disseminating information. A study will be carried out to identify the sources of
information to be disseminated, on the one hand, and to define the circuits for
disseminating information, on the other.



Annex H
* Other Players
72.   Legislative and judicial intstitutions. To ensure better control over its activities
and consolidate the foundations of democracy, the Government will work to strengthen
the organizational and technical capacity of legislative and consultative institutions. In
addition, it will ensure that the principle of the separation of powers is respected, to
guarantee the independence of the judiciary vis-a-vis the state.
73.   The private sector. The Government confirms its intention to make the private
sector the engine of growth. To do this, it will implement the reforms required to
improve the system of incentives. But this action alone cannot generate the desired
transformation of the private sector. In fact, other constraints linked to the lack of
professionalism of some private operators, and to difficulties in the access to financing
resources are also responsible for holding back Burkina Faso's business sector. The
Government will prepare a masteT plan defining Burkina Faso's strategy for private
sector development. This document will be accompanied by an investment development
plan. While waiting for the results of this work, it will take the necessary steps to ensure
that private consulting firms pay rnore attention to the training and assistance needs of
private operators. It will also encourage cooperative arrangements between banks and
private operators. Finally, it will promote the creation of credible associations in all
sectors of the economy.
Implementation Strategy
74.    It is important to underline the urgency of the required reforms, in view of the
stakes involved with the WAEMU and the challenges of globalization. For these reforms
to induce the desired structural changes and to produce their full effect, they must be
implemented quickly and simultaneously. The Government will therefore have to play a
true leadership role in guiding these reforms. In fact, their success will depend on its
capacity to make them accepted, and to implement them in the required timeframe.
75. The authorities are aware that implementation of certain reforms will trigger
resistance from some quarters, such as labor unions and certain constituencies in
privileged positions. With a view to limiting these movements, the Government will
develop a communication plan to explain the content and especially the reasoning behind
these reforms to all members of the Burkinabe society. If necessary, it will consider the
possibility of once again holding national meetings [assises] on the economy.
The Financial Implications of the Reform Program
76.   Implementation of some reforms, such as tax relief measures, could create a
relatively sizeable drop in Government revenue in the short term, which will be partially
offset by the expected improvement in the economy's competitiveness and national
wealth.
77. The costs linked to certain reforms and the financial needs generated by certain
investment projects to be implemented will exceed Government's financial capacity. The
donor community is therefore expected to provide Burkina Faso with the additional
resources   needed  to  implement  its  amnbitious   program    of  reforms.



Annex H
ATTACHMENT
Table 1: Gross Domestic Product
(CFAF billion)                      1985       1990        1995      f 1996       1997       1998
GDPatconstantprices                 663.1      752.1       892.6      947.7       999.5    i 1056.3
Growthrate                          13.1%      -1.5%       4.1%       6.2%        5.5%       5.7%
Primaxy sector                       -         -6.7%       0.3%       7.3%        -1.5%      11.1%
Secondary sector                               -2,0%       2.2%/o     1.1%        15.9%      1.4%
Tertiary sector                   I            3.4%        7.3%       6.5%        8.2%       2.6%
Table 2: Budget Ratios
1985       1990        1995       1996        1997        1998
Tax revenue/GDP                   7.7%       9.8%   _    11.2%       12.1%      12.2%       12.1%
Govemment revenue/GDP             9.5%       11.8%       12.1%       13.1%      13.2%       13.2%
Current expenditure/GDP           7.3%       11.4%       11.6%       11.0%      10.2%       10.4%
Wages/current expenditure         69.6%      65.0%       46.5%      48.0%       48.3%       45.5%
Capital expenditure/GDP           0.9%       0.9%        0.9%       1.3%        2.4%        3.1%
Table 3: Budget balances
(CFAF billion)                    1985       1990        1995       1996        1997        1998
Budget savings                    14.2       3.1         6.4         25.7       41.7        41.3
as %ofGDP                        2.1%        0.4%       0.6%        2.1%       3.0%        2.7%
Overal balance (commitment basis)  -9.4      -17.1      -21.3       -1.4        -26.2      -39.0
as % of GDP                      -1.4%       -2.2%      -1.9/0     -0.1%       -1.9%       -2.6%
Excluding grants                 -25.7       -40.0       -90.8      -89.5       -104.9      -123.2
Overall balance (cash basis)     -10.3       -1.9       -38.3       -15.1       -40.0      -46.5
as% of GDP                       -1.6%       -0.2%      -3.3%       -1.2%       -2.9%/o    -3.1%
Table 4: Outstanding Debt
.  1985        1990       1995        1996        1997       1998
Public debt (CFAF billion)        178.0      223.8       699.5      728.7       813.8       793.1
as % of GDP                      26.8%       28.8%      61.1%       59.4%       59.2% 0    52.4%
External debt (CFAF billion)      165.5      208.6       667.5       692.6      768.7       753.4
as % of total debt               93.0%       93.2%      95.4%       95.0%      94.5%       95.0%
Domesticdebt(CFAFbillion)         12.5       15.3        32.0        36.1       45.1      |39.8
Table 5: Debt Service
1985       1990        1995       1996        1997        1998
Public debt service (CFAF bilion)    13.8    20.8        40.4       29.6        35.1        36.5
as % of GDP                      2.1%        2.7%       3.5%        2.4%        2.5%       2.4%
as%ofcurrent revenue              22.0%      22.7%       29.1%       18.5%      19.3%       18.3%
External debt service (CFAF billion)  12.5   12.6        29.2       24.2        26.6        28.4
as % of exports                  -24.1%     -29.2%0    | -53.4%     -37.4%      -36.4%     -37.5%
Domestics debt service (CFAF      1.4        8.2         1.2         5.5        8.5         8.1
billion)
as % of the total                9.8%        39.5%      27.7%       18.4%       24.2%     | 22.2%



