Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21555
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-32990)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18 MILLION
(US$ 25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT III
December 27, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Effective November 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Francs (CFAF)
CFAF 744 = US$ 1
US$ I = 1.2892
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARTEL          Azence de r6gulation des telecommunications
CAS             Country Assistance Strategv
CET             Common Extemal Tariff
CFAA            Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR            Country Procurement Assessment Report
ECOWAS          Economic Community of West African States
EMRSO           Economic Management Reform Suowrt Operation
ESAF            Enhanced Structural Adiustment Facility
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
HIPC            Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IASC            Intemational Accounting Standards Committee
IFAC            Intemational Federation of Accountants
IMF             Intemational Monetary Fund
INTOSAI         Intemational Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
MTEF           Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
OHADA           Orpanisation pour I 'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique
PCS            Prelevement communautaire de solidarit (community solidarity levy)
PER             Public Expenditure Review
PRGF            Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC            Poverty Reduction SuppOrt Credit
PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC             Structural Adiustment Credit
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SYGASPE        Svst6me Intjgre de (iestion Administrative et Salariale du Personnel de l'Etat
TCI             Taxe conioncturelle a l 'importation
TDP             Taxe de6ressive de protection
TPC             Taxe prferentielle communautaire
TPCNA           Taxe sur les produits communautaires non agrees
TUPP            Taxe uniaue sur les produits atgroliers (petroleum tax)
VAT             Value Added Tax
WAEMU           West African Economic and Monetary Union
Vice President:         Callisto Madavo
Country Director:          Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:          Charles Humphreys
Task Team  Leader:           Ce1estin Monga



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURKINA FASO
Burkina Faso - SAC m
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              11
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                         26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                  32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P069165                                       Project Name: Burkina Faso - SAC III
Team Leader: Celestin Monga                               TL Unit: AFTM4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 27, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Burkina Faso - SAC III                         LI/CTF Number: IDA-32990
Country/Department: BURKINA FASO                                         Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/15/1999                               Effective:  12/16/2000        12/16/2000
Appraisal:  10/18/1999                                MTR:
Approval:  12/02/1999                              Closing: 06/30/2000           06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND
FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Hasan A. Tuluy                             Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:      Charles Humphreys                          Charles Humphreys
Team Leader at ICR:   Cdlestin Monga
ICR Primary A uthor:  Jean-Claude Tchatchouang;
Siaka Coulibaly
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Rationale and Objective of Structural Adjustment Credit III (SAC III). The overall objective of the
credit was to support a reform program aimed at: (i) enhancing the competitiveness of the Burkinabe
economy to substantially raise growth rates over the medium term and alleviate poverty; (ii) improving
public finance management, particularly with regard to tax policy and the use of public resources; and (iii)
completing the third phase of the common external tariff (CET) adopted by the West African Economic and
Monetary Union (WAEMU) on January 1, 2000. While Burkina Faso's macroeconomic performance has
been good since the 1994 CFA franc devaluation, it is fragile and below what is needed to reduce poverty
substantially. With the aim of increasing per capita income and accelerating the development of human
resources and productive potential, the Government had formulated a medium- and long-term strategy in
the context of several important policy papers, including the 1995 Letter on Sustainable Human
Development Policy and the 1999 Sources of Growth and Competitiveness study. To accelerate economic
growth and generate employment, the strategy was to remove the constraints on economic activity and to
foster the development of a dynamic and modern private sector, in particular by improving the business
environment. To address these challenges, the authorities outlined a growth strategy focused on the
following policy areas:
*  Reducing significantly marginal effective tax rates on the formal sector while broadening the tax base
and improving public expenditure management;
*   Reducing infrastructure, input, and trnsaction costs to improve the competitiveness of the private
sector; and encouraging private sector investments in low cost, high quality basic infrastructure
projects;
*   Reforming the legal system to provide appropriate protection and incentives to private investors and to
attract informal sector businesses into the formal economy;
*  Enhancing human capital by raising the efficiency of public expenditures in education and health
sectors.
Consistent with Bank policy governing adjustment lending (R96-55, R80-122) and with the 1996 Country
Assistance strategy (CAS), the credit rationale was primarily to support one of the four pillars of the new
policy framework, namely the necessary improvement in the overall public finance management system. It
was recognized that a pre-requisite to the success of the accelerated growth strategy will be to maintain
sound Government finances-notwithstanding the short-term loss of revenue that would result from the
reduction of income tax rates on the fornal sector of the economy and the implementation of the final phase
of the CET-and to improve the efficiency of public expenditures. The reforms supported by this
operation, especially tax and trade reform, were described as essential to create an environment conducive
to efficient private sector investment and growth. Public finance reform and regional integration would
benefit Burkina Faso's growth over the medium and long-term by: (i) improving the Government's resource
mobilization system; (ii) stimulating private investment flows and external trade; (iii) improving efficiency
and productivity; and (iv) providing Burkina Faso's economic agents with free access to the significantly
larger WAEMU market. By reallocating public funds toward priority activities in health and education, the
reforms would further strengthen the country's growth potential while helping correct underlying factors
that contribute to Burkina Faso's deep poverty.
Design. SAC III followed up on the one-tranche Economic Management Reform Support Operation
(EMRSO) which was approved by the Board in November 1998. The EMRSO supported the
consolidation of the first phase of reforms in Burkina Faso and laid the foundations for a new generation of
reformns in the areas of public finance and public expenditure management, privatization, and the transport,
-2 -



telecommunications and energy sectors. SAC III was also designed as a one-tranche operation supporting a
series of policy measures to be implemented prior to Board presentation:
fi) Tax and Trade policv:
* lowering the maximum tariff rate from 25 percent to 20 percent;
* lowering the corporate income tax rate from 40 percent to 35 percent, and launching a study to further
lower the tax rate to 30 percent or 25 percent by 2001;
* introducing a withholding tax at customs and on purchases from wholesalers to be applied against the
profit tax (I percent for basic consumption food and 2 percent for other merchandise);
* removing the ban on hide exports;
* ensuring that the two major tax offices (Kadiogo I and Houet I) are fully computerized and
strengthened;
(ii) Public expenditure management:
* issuing the terms of reference and recruit consultants for the preparation of studies in the framework of
the public expenditure review (education, health, financial decentralization, ancl public investment
program);
_  adopting a plan of action and timetable for the extension of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) approach to all key Government ministries for the year 2001 budget;
- completing and sending the year-end budget execution reports for the 1993 and 1994 budgets (lois de
r, glement) to the Supreme Audit Institution (Chambre des Comptes de la Cour Supreme);
(iii) Budgetarv procedures:
* integrating the payroll management system (SYGASPE) into the Government's fmiancial management
system (circuit de la depense);
(iv) Regulatory framework:
- establishing the regulatory authority for the telecommunications sector.
The use of a single tranche operation was justified by Burkina Faso's good track record in implementing
two Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) programs and the previous adjustment operation
(EMRSO). The main advantage of single-tranching with ex-ante conditionality was that it enhanced
political acceptability of the reform program. It was expected that, after the successful implementation of
SAC III, the Government would be able to formulate comprehensive medium-term programs in key sectors
that could be supported by ordinary multi-tranche adjustment operations. To guard against the risk of
launching a series of one-tranche operations with different focuses, which would eventually lead to a reforn
process lacking coherence, the 1998 EMRSO had provided a clear indication of links with future
adjustment operations. Policy areas to be covered in the follow-up credits (SAC III) were identified, and the
progress benchmarks were identified. A medium-term policy matrix was attached to the Board document.
While acknowledging that the details of the next credit were yet to be worked out with the Burkinabe
authorities, the Memorandum of the President of SAC III indicated that the focus would remain on public
finance reform, with an emphasis on efficiency, competitiveness and poverty reduction. In addition to the
maintenance of satisfactory macroeconomic program and overall reform effort, the next structural
adjustment credit would be triggered by substantial progress, in particular, in the following policy areas:
- 3 -



* adoption of program budgets (budgets programmes) in the six key Government ministries identified in
the April 1999 budget guidelines (i.e., ministries of Health, Economy and Finance, Territorial
Administration, Defense, Basic Education, and Secondary/Higher education); these program budgets
should be sent to Parliament with the fiscal year 2001 draft budget bill;
*   local recruitment for contractual positions in education;
*  implementation of the public enterprise reform and privatization program as of June 2000, according to
the schedule in the Policy Framework Paper for 1999-2002;
*  preparation of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper in close collaboration with the Bank and the IMF;
*  completion and transmission to the Supreme Audit Institution (Chambre des Comptes de la Cour
Supreme) of year-end budget execution reports (Lois de reglements) for 1995 and 1996 fiscal years.
The operation was prepared over a seven-month period. The borrower's input was substantial, as the
Government carried out several studies-most notably the May 1999 Sources of Growth and
Competitiveness study-prior to the appraisal mission. The Bank also provided background analytical
work on public finance management and the challenges and opportunities that the regional integration
process would imply Burkina Faso. The main risk facing the program was identified as political: the reform
program could falter because of pressures in some political circles and some institutional weaknesses.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained unchanged and project design was not modified.
3.3 Original Components:
The reform program associated with this credit had four major elements: (i) tax policy and its supply side
effects, including the implementation of the last phase of the WAEMU's CET on January 1, 2000; (ii)
efficiency of public expenditures; (iii) budgetary procedures to increase transparency; and (iv) regulatory
framework to improve domestic competitiveness.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not modified.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The design and implementation arrangements incorporated key
lessons from the EMRSO as well as the views of major stakeholders through a participatory preparatory
process. While there existed some concerns about the capacity of the Government to implement some of the
main features of the public expenditure components (i.e., the MTEF), overall the program's timing and
content were satisfactory. The program's objectives and components were appropriate and consistent with
enabling the Government to undertake an ambitious reform process. The project was closely coordinated
with the financial and economic measures supported by the IMF's Poverty reduction and growth facility
(PRGF).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The program successfully achieved its specific objectives and has maintained them after the closing date
(June 2000). For each policy objective, a set of policy measures were defined and the outcomes have been
satisfactory (see Table 1).
-4 -



Table 1: Summary of the main outcomes of SAC III
Policy Objective                 Key Actions Taken                    Status                          Outcomes
Improving public          Reduce tax rates                           Completed         The shortfall in fiscal revenue was smaller than
finance management        Adopt measures to modemize the main tax                    anticipated;
offices                                                         Tax revenue increased from CFAF 199.5 billion in
1998 to 221 billion in 1999; in spite of the reduction
in tax rates and the implementation of a new, lower
extemal tariff regirne, tax revenue is estimated to
reach CFA 209 billion in 2000
Adopt measures to rationalize expenditures                 - Public spending on education and health is up, and
and reallocate funding to social sectors                       monitoring indicators are in place to assess its impact;
Adopt measures to increase transparency                     Parliament and the Supreme audit institution are
now involved in the auditing of Govemment accounts
Opening up the            Implement the CET                          Completed         The Burkinabe economy is more liberalized and the
economy                                                                              regional integration process is moving forward
Enhancing                 Create a regulatory authority              Completed         Telecommunications costs in Burkina have been
competitiveness in                                                                   reduced by 40 percent on average in a year
the telecoms sector
4.2 Outputs by components:
Tax policy. In the framework of the reform program supported by SAC III, the Burkinabe authorities took
some decisive steps in 1999 and 2000 to reverse some features of fiscal policy that have had negative
supply-side effects on the economy over the past decade. Since the beginning of the stabilization program in
Burkina Faso, the main objective of tax policy had been to raise public revenue. While the upward trend
was justified by the need to achieve fiscal sustainability and the rather low initial level of tax-to-GDP ratio
in comparison to the country's acute needs for social infrastructures, various empiriical studies on fiscal
policy concluded that increased taxation may have had negative supply side effects, thus undermining
growth and the prospects of raising public revenues in a sustainable manner.
Table 2: Tax policy conditions
Policy Measures                                             Status
Lowering the maximum tariff rate from 25 percent to 20 percent                   ])one
Lowering the corporate income tax rate from 40 percent to 35                     Done
percent
Launching a study to further lower the tax rate to 30 percent or    The study is ongoing and should be completed by
25 percent by 2001                                          March 2001 ; Policy recommendations from the study
should be adopted by the Govemment in 2001
Introducing a withholding tax at customs and on purchases from                   Done
wholesalers to be applied against the profit tax (I percent for
basic consumption food and 2 percent for other merchandise)
Removing the ban on hide exports                                                 Done
Ensuring that the two major tax offices (Kadiogo I and Houct I)                On going
are fully computerized and strengthened
The implementation of policy measures included in the tax policy component of SAC III led to several
important outcomes. First, the reduction of corporate income tax from 40 percent in 1999 to 35 percent in
- 5 -



2000 and the prospects for reducing the rate further over the next two years have contributed to improving
prospects for private investment. Results of a business survey carried out in Ouagadougou in early 1999,
indicate that the high level of taxation on the formal sector over the past decade had reduced the expected
after-tax profit and also reduced the availability of investmnent finance. Furthermore, over the years, some
ad hoc increases in tax rates were often relied upon for large consumption products like petroleum to
achieve revenue targets adopted in the PRGF program, without prior analysis of the supply side effects.
And the private sector was receiving little value for their taxes because of the weak administrative capacity
in place and the ineffective mechanisms for public service delivery. By helping the Burkinabe authorities
reverse those trends, the SAC III operation seems to have attracted very positive reactions from the
business community. Several prominent members of the private sector-including the Chairman of the
Chamber of Commerce-have publicly expressed satisfaction with the shift in Govermment tax policy.
Although changes to improve the supply-side effects of fiscal policy always take a long time to yield
results, one can already observe some positive developments. The objectives for government revenue,
current budgetary expenditure, and current primary surplus for 1999 were met. Fiscal developments in
1999 were broadly favorable, in particular concerning revenue, which reached CFAF 238 billion (15
percent of GDP), exceeding the objective by about 0.7 percent of GDP. Current primary expenditure was
consistent with program objectives (CFAF 165.9 billion, or 10.4 percent of GDP), but the budgetary
contribution to investment slightly exceeded the program's projection. Overall, the current primary surplus
and the primary surplus (the latter of which excludes externally financed capital expenditure) exceeded the
objectives by 0.3 percent and 0.1 percent of GDP, respectively. The overrun of the revenue objective is the
result of the good performances of the corporate income tax, the tax on property income, the value-added
tax (VAT), and customs duties, which more than offset the introduction, in April 1999, of the common
external tariff. This favorable outturn is attributable to an increase in the taxable profits of enterprises in
1998 and, at the same time, to the strengthening of the tax and customs administrations. Specifically, the
monitoring of large enterprises by the General Directorate of Taxes was strengthened through an
improvement in collection and management procedures (including the upgrading of software) and a more
concerted staff training effort. Economic growth decelerated in 2000 on account of the political malaise in
Burkina Faso and in C6te d'Ivoire, combined with adverse exogenous shocks, including a lower cotton
crop, the rise in oil prices, and the events in C6te d'Ivoire that significantly reduced workers' remittances
(the latter two adverse external shocks are estimated at around 2.5 percent of GDP). Real GDP growth for
2000 is now estimated to reach 4 percent against 5.7 percent programmed. These developments may result
in a mixed budgetary performance in 2000.
Significant progress was made in 1999-2000 in completing the last phase of the common extemal tariff
(CET) of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), which was introduced in stages
between July 1, 1998 and January 1, 2000 (see Table 3). The good results achieved at customs in spite of
the CET (the program's objective was exceeded by 7 percent in 1999) were a consequence of (i) the strict
application of the compensatory measures adopted to accompany the new classification of products under
the CET; (ii) the computerization of new customs offices; (iii) the elimination of the remaining exemptions
on public contracts; and (iv) the enhanced monitoring of foreign-financed projects for which the indirect
taxes are paid by the Treasury. In particular, the introduction of the new classification of import products
was accompanied by the elimination of special VAT payment procedures for importers of raw materials
and for the enterprises registered under the Investment Code.
- 6 -



Table 3: External Tariff Conditions
Until June 1998      From July 1998      From January 1,   From January 1,
1999               2000
Customs rates/categories              1 I1    111         1     11    111      I    11  111        1    11 .   1
External tariff rates
Customsduty/Fiscalduty              5     9    31       5      9     25       5    10   25       5    10     20
Statistical tax                     4     4      4      4      4      4      4      4     4      1     1      1
Special intervention tax            2     2      2     ...    ...     ...         ...   ...    ...   ...
Total                                11    15   37       9      13     29      9    14   29        6    11    21
Community solidarity levy (PCS)      I     1     I      1      1      I             1        1    15   1.5    1.5
Intra WAEMU tariff rates
Local primary products                           0             0                    0                  0
Eligible industrial products of     60 percent       60 percent preference   80 percent preference   100 percent
origin                                preference                                                       reference
Non-eligible products of origin    -5 percentage points  -5 percentage points  -5 percentage points    -5 percentage
points
External Tariff Revenue 1997-2000
(In billions of CFA francs unless otherwise indicated)
1997          1998                     1999                 2000
Est           Est        Orig Prog     Prog        Est      Prog
Total extemal tariff revenue                       49.9          49.7          44.7       39.4       43.2    34.9
as a percentage of GDP                             3.6           3.2          2.7        2.4        2.7      2.0
Import duties                                      43.0          43.8          39.8       37.3       40.4    31.0
asapercentageofGDP                                 3.1           2.9          2.4        2.3        2.5      1.8
Customs duty/Fiscal duty                        32.6           32.1         28.0       26.2       29.0    27.5
Statistical tax                                  10.4          11.7         11.8       11.1       11.4      3.5
Other import taxes                                  5.9            4.7          3.5        0.8        1.6     2.5
Special intervention tax                         4.9            2.9          0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Special community tax (TPC + TCNA)                 1            1.8           1.0        ...       1.0       0
TDP/TCI                                           ...           ...           ...        ...        ...     1.5
Transfers from WAEMU 1/                           ...           ...          2.5        0.8        0.6      1.0
Other taxes on intemational trade                   1.0            1.2          1.4        1.3        1.2      1.4
Contribution of livestock sector (on exports)     0.6            0.7          0.8        0.8        0.6     0.8
Penalties                                         0.4            0.5          0.6        0.5        0.6     0.6
Memorandum items:
Nominal GDP                                      1390          1529          1645       1629       1589    1713
Transfers to WAEMU and CDEAO                      0.9            2.4          2.4        2.4        2.3     2.3
(community solidarity levy) 1/
Single tax on petroleum products (TUPP)           9.4            8.3         12.9       12.9       11.7      12
VAT on imports                                   24.9          27.4          26.2       26.2       32.9    32.9
(as a ercentage of GDP)                           1.8            1.8          1.6        1.6        2.1     1.9
11 The WAEMU and the ECOWAS collect a solidarity levy onextracommunity imports, respectively of I percent since January 1,
2000 and 0.5 percent of import value; the WAEMU transfers part of the receipts to member states to compensate for shortfalls in
tariff revenue due to intercommunitv trade.
In order to improve the environment for private sector development and sustained economic growth, tax
policy adopted in 2000 in the framework of the 2001 budget bill builds on the above achievements to
pursue reforms. For 2001, the original revenue target of 14.4 percent of GDP is expected to be achieved
through the adoption of a number of revenue enhancing measures, including (i) improving on the tax
withholding mechanism on imports and purchases from producers and wholesalers creditable against the
corporate income tax; (ii) a reform of real estate taxation, and (iii) abolishing the differentiation in the
taxation of cigarettes according to origin (domestically produced or imported) while increasing the average
duty rate. The authorities will also implement an automatic monthly adjustment of petroleum product prices
in line with movements in world prices as part of a reform in the taxation of petroleum products in line with
regional guidelines.
Rating: Achievement of the tax policy component of SAC III was fully satisfactory.
- 7 -



Public expenditures. The Burkinabe authorities have greatly improved their budgeting and expenditure
practices over the past five years. A comprehensive public expenditure review in 1995, and a public
expenditure incidence analysis in the education, health, and water sectors in 1996 and 1997 contributed to
the understanding of equity issues, although not of the rationale and efficiency of expenditures in those
sectors. Following the adoption by the Boards of the Bank and the IMF of the HIPC Decision Point
document of the original HPC Initiative in November 1997, the Government defined budgetary monitoring
indicators; adopted a program for regular consultations between the Bank and the authorities on all
budgetary issues; and established a multi-year program to enhance staff capabilities on PER-related
matters. An interministerial committee was set up to coordinate the subsequent work on the public
expenditure management.
Table 4: Measures to Improve the Efficiency of Public Spending
Policy Measures                                           Status
Issuing the terms of reference and recruit consultants for the  The four studies were actually carried out with Bank technical
preparation of studies in the framework of the public expenditure  asistance and their results were discussed during a seminar
review (education, health, financial decentralization, and public  involving other donors and civil society representatives; the
investment program)                                     key lessons were integrated in the preparation of the MTEF
and the main Tecommendations of the studies should be
included in the budget guidelines for 2002, to be released in
May 2001.
Adopting a plan of action and timetable for the extension of the  The Govemment completed its first MTEF for 2001-2003 and
MTEF approach to all key Govemment ministries for the year 2001   presented it to Parliament in October 2000 with the 2001
budget                                                  budget bill.
Completing and sending the year-end budget execution reports for    Done. The budget reports for the 1995-98 period are due in
the 1993 and 1994 budgets (lois de reglemen) to the Supreme  March 2001.
Audit Institution (Chambre des Comptesde la Cour Supr6me);
Progress was made in 2000 in improving the monitoring of public expenditure in health and education.
Four studies carried out by the Burkinabe authorities with assistance from the Bank focused on health,
education, public investment, and budget procedures for financial deconcentration. They were discussed in
mid-2000 with civil society and representatives of the donor community, and were used to finalize the
Government's Poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP). As a result of these efforts, budget guidelines were
significantly improved over the past three years: in conformity with the HIPC social targets, the share of
actual public expenditure for health and education in the budget has increased.
Table 5: Govemrment Resources Allocated to the Socia I Sectors (in percent)
Policy Measures             1997                1998                1999            2000
Taraet   Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual          Target
Increase share of budget     12.0      11.9    12.6        12.2    13.1        13.9         12.4
expenditure on health (*)
Increase share of budget     14.6      14.5     14.3       15.8    13.0        14.2         15.0
expenditure on basic
education(*)
(*) Excluding foreign-finance investment and interest expenditures
A shift to performance budgeting was made for six key ministries (Health, Finance, Interior, Defense, Basic
Education, and Secondary/Technical education), with outcome indicators to monitor efficiency, and
increased accountability for line managers. A medium-term expenditure framework for 2001-2003 was
prepared in 2000 and presented to Parliament in October 2000 with the 2001 budget bill. The MTEF led to
major improvements in the process of budget formulation. Designed as the linking framework that
- 8 -



facilitates the management of tension between sectoral policies and financial constraints, it helped the
Burkinabe authorities identify three phases of budget management: (i) a medium-term statement of fiscal
policy goals with specific targets for the period 2001-2003; (ii) a statement of strategic priorities in terms
of medium-term resources available-this provides a measure of budget predictability to line ministries and
all spending agencies while respecting the fiscal discipline imperative; and (iii) the need for budget
innovations to move towards output, or outcome-based budgeting. In addition to reinforcing fiscal
discipline and improving strategic prioritization, the MTEF preparation process and the 2000 PER studies
highlighted the need for further reforns that seek to improve operational efficiency. Service quality in the
public sector is still low, unit costs high and outcomes disappointing, although improving slowly in the
education and health sectors. Following the recommendations of the PER studies carried out in the
framnework of SAC III and in conformity with the findings of the analytical work underpinning Ten-year
programs in social sectors, the authorities have adopted action plans to improve the efficiency of public
expenditure. These actions plans were found satisfactory by the Bank. The costing and funding of these
plans are properly reflected in the MTEF. A Participatory Poverty Assessment under preparation with
Bank support will also shed light on issues of expenditure efficiency from the beneficiaries' point of view.
Rating: Achievement of the public expenditure component of SAC III was fully satisfactory.
Budgetary procedures. In the framework of implementing the policy reform program underpinning the
EMRSO and SAC III, Burkina Faso has made efforts over the past three years to simplify budgetary
procedures, improve governance and reduce corruption. As a result of all these measures, including the
decision to integrate the payroll management system (SYGASPE) into the financial management system in
August 1999, the following improvements were observed:
*  The unified budget system has been completed and the implementation of a computerized expenditure
management system (Circuit de la depense) was significantly advanced, which makes it possible to
track the State's accounting and financial transactions (some ministries are currently decentralizing this
facility).
*   Since 1998, the Govemment has carried out a systematic review of public expen(liture by a national
team of experts under the supervision of an interministerial committee.
O   For any given financial year since 1998, budget guidelines were improved to reflect lessons from PER
and progress in the policy dialogue with the Bank and other donors on budgetary matters.
*   Major improvements were observed in public procurement procedures, such as the periodic publication
of bids received in public tenders.
*  Trade liberalization and tariff reform have also reduced rents and increased revenues from customs
administration.
*  The privatization program has removed a large source of rents and patronage from the public sector.
The restructuring of the financial sector and related reforms have greatly reduced the role of
Government in credit allocation decisions (delinquent borrowers are prohibited from obtaining new
bank loans and from bidding on public procurement contracts and privatization). The Government has
also carried out a major overhaul of its business laws by adopting new business laws under the
OHADA treaty.
*   In 1999 and for the first time in over a decade and thanks to the reform program supported by SAC III,
budget execution reports laws (lois de reglements) for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 were enacted by the
National Assembly; the Government is committed to completing reports for the 1995-98 period by
March 2001.
*  An independent Supreme Audit Court was created in 2000. It will be given aL larger role in the
preparation of audited budget laws.
-9-



*   An audit of military expenditures for fiscal year 1999 is currently being completed and will be
transmitted to the Supreme Audit Institution and to Parliament.
Rating: Achievement of the budgetary procedure component of SAC III was satisfactory.
Regulatory framework
The promulgation of the law no. 051/98/AN, establishing the regulatory authority for the
telecommunications sector was one of the conditions for Board presentation of SAC III. Together with
several important reforms measures in the telecommunications, the creation of the regulation authority
ARTEL has led to the improvement of domestic competitiveness in Burkina Faso. Table 6 below indicates
that the implementation of the reform  program  has already contributed to significant reductions in
telecommunications costs in Burkina Faso.
Table 6: Decreasing Costs of Telecommunications
1999       2000         Variation
Telephone costs
Domestic city to city phone   FCFAF  320-400     280          -22%
calls (201 to 400 km)  per
minute
International calls
Africa Zone AI (West)   FCFAlmn      780         480          -39%/o
Africa Zone A2 (other   FCFAlmn   780-2560       750        -4% a -77%
countries)
Europe Zone I (EU)     FCFA/mn   1100-1500       750        -32% A 60%/o
Europe Zone B3 (Spain,  FCFA/mn      1500       1200          -20%
Italy, Holland, Sweden,
Switzerland)
Asia                   FCFAlmn   2260-2560      1200       -47% A -61%
America Zone Dl (USA,  FCFAJmn   1100-1260      750         -32 A -74%
Canada)
Source: Burkina Faso, Provisional Report on the Government's remainingz portfolio of public enterprises
Rating: Achievement of the regulatory framework component of SAC III was fully satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of SAC III is rated substantial, mostly because the Burkinabe
authorities exceeded expectations by completing a full MTEF. The Bank strategy for institutional
development consisted of using the SAC III operation as one of many instruments for developing consensus
in favor of a larger reform agenda. The credit served as a vehicle for the articulation of a comprehensive
action plan for the new economic policy framework and institutional reform, and as a rallying device to
help push through the preparation of a first medium-term expenditure framework that were central to this
framework. The credit lent impetus for the implementation of some important institutional measures
(strengthening of tax administration through new equipment and changes in procedures, overhaul of the
budget preparation process in key ministries, establishment of a task force in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance to complete budget reports on a regular basis, modemization of the payroll management system
- 10-



with the SYGASPE), some of which were subsequently endorsed in the Government's 1'RSP. The adoption
of a full MTEF to be updated every year is an important step in budget management.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
SAC III was a one-tranche operation supporting policy measures that were all implemented prior to Board
approval. However, the final outcome of the reform program implemented may be affected in the
medium-term by the deterioration of external economic prospects. Given the heavy reliance of Burkina
Faso's economy on cotton, gold, and livestock exports, the main factor that affected the outcome of SAC
III was the depression of regional as well as global demand, which slowed export growth in 2000 and
delayed implementation of the poverty reduction strategy. Burkina Faso's economic success will
substantially depend on external factors (demand for cotton, world prices, the dollar/CFAF exchange rate).
The medium-term balance of payment projections for Burkina Faso, which will strongly influence the
country's rate of economic growth and public finance performance, are subject to substantial uncertainties
regarding export volumes and prices for cotton and gold.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Implementation of SAC III was not hindered by the deteriorating political climate in the country and in the
West African region. However, the 1999-2000 period was marked by social tensions and growing political
dissent, epitomized by student strikes that eventually led to the annulment of the university year, and
boycott by the opposition parties of the September 2000 municipal elections. This led to the resignation of
the Government in November 2000. These domestic political tensions did not delay the implementation of
the SAC III program. However, they may eventually affect the new Government's determination to push
ahead with the next phase of reforms (administrative and civil service reform, decentralization) and the
final outcome of the broader reform program.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reform program supported by SAC III is likely. There is a new Govermment since
November 2000 and the intent seems to be to continue with the institutional reforms. Although there are
questions about the pace of the desirable further reforms, particularly with respect to the decentralization of
public finance management and some key reforms in the education sector, policy reversals on the specific
reform measures that were supported by this SAC are unlikely. The dialogue with the Burkinabe authorities
has been very good over the past three years, and Burkina Faso has successfully implemented two
three-year ESAF/PRGF programs; the current third PRGF program is on track. Sustainability is enhanced
by the fact that most reforms implemented in the framework of this operation are necessary for moving
forward with the regional integration process, which is Government's overriding prioritv.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Beside financing the gap created by the shortfall in fiscal revenue due to the implementation of the
WAEMU's CET and supporting reforms to enhance the competitiveness of the Burkinabe economy, the
SAC III operation, as well as the 1998 EMRSO, has built a foundation for further structural reforms to be
carried out by the Government. The series of adjustment credits (SAC I, EMRSO, SAC III) have prepared
- 11 -



the ground for momentum toward further restructuring programs and for Bank's future assistance to
Burkina Faso. Since SAC III was approved in November 1999, the Bank has stepped up its work on public
finance management in Burkina Faso, in close collaboration with the IMF and other development partners.
Recent PER studies and other analytical work carried out during the preparation of the 2001-2003 MTEF
indicate that full implementation of sectoral strategies already adopted or currently being finalized in
priority sectors (education, health, rural development) will require major improvements in public sector
management. The Country Assistance Evaluation noted that Bank projects in Burkina Faso, while quite
comprehensive in coverage and broadly consistent with one another, have too often been conceived
independently, with little explicit analysis of potential trade-offs among them. In order to address the
country's weak institutional capacity and to ensure sustainability of the reform program, the newly adopted
CAS envisages a shift from project lending towards program lending, which will imply a gradual change in
lending instruments. The proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) instrument would be
consistent with the framework for programmatic adjustment lending. It would provide an adequate
framework for comprehensive public finance reforms that require simultaneous actions at the level of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, and at the level of line ministries. Its flexibility would also provide a
more effective mechanism to address sector-wide issues that cannot be dealt with under traditional, stand
alone investment projects. The PRSC would also facilitate the dialogue on the Government's overall use of
public resources, regardless of their source. Finally, by focusing directly on the four main pillars of the
PRSP, the PRSC would help strengthen donor coordination and Government ownership of the reform
program.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank performance from identification to completion was satisfactory. The reform program associated
with SAC III was based on intensive analytical work carried out with the Government team. Lessons from
previous lending operations were fully taken into account. The Bank has developed a close relationship
with Burkinabe counterparts and now plays an effective supporting partner's role in the country. SAC III
played an important role, in conjunction with other lending and non-lending operations, in helping Burkina
Faso enhance domestic competitiveness and meet its commitment to deeper regional integration at a critical
phase of WAEMU history.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank staff visited Burkina Faso five times in 2000 to supervise program implementation, participate in
public expenditure reviews and in the preparation of the 2001-2003 MTEF, and prepare the following
adjustment lending operation. A key element of supervision was the seminar on the MTEF and the
workshop on macro-modelling held in Ouagadougou in April-May 2000. The timing of these two events-
just before the 2001 budget guidelines were released and just before the kick-off of the 2001 budget
preparation process-helped create the momentum for finalizing the Government's PRSP, and reach
agreement with the authorities on the next phase of public finance reform. An economist who had
previously been involved in the preparation process of SAC III was recruited at the Resident Mission a few
weeks after Board approval. This allowed for close monitoring of the progress in the implementation of
other actions stated in the 1999 Letter of Development Policy.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rating: Based on the above, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
- 12 -



7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in the preparation of the operation was satisfactory. At the very early stage of the
preparation process, the Government team visited the Bank to discuss possible areas of policy reforms to
be supported by the credit. Background studies were then launched and funded by the Government.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation of the program was satisfactory overall during a period of political
tension and economic uncertainty due to losses in the terms of trade. Given the delicate nature of some of
the policy issues covered in the SAC III program (i.e. the reduction in corporate income taxes), the
Government was successful in seeking the engagement and assistance of other donors, including the IMF,
in its efforts to maintain macro-stabilization while setting the stage for economic and institutional reforms
aimed toward long-term sustainable growth. The Government performed well on all four components of the
program-tax policy, public expenditure, budgetary procedures, and the regulatory framework-and
confirmed its strong commitment to reforms. All the major policy measures specified in the Letter of
Development Policy were implemented as planned. There was strong ownership from the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and support by key sectoral ministries and all major donors (ADB, IMF, European
Union, Denmark, Switzerland, and the Netherlands). The SAC III accounts should be audited in the
framework of the preparation of the 1999 budget execution report.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementation units was adequate. The four major divisions in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance in charge of SAC III (Secretariat Technique pour la Coordination des
Programmes de Developpement Economique et Social, the Direction Gene'rale de  Imp6t, Direction
Generale des Douanes, and the Direction Generale du Budget) achieved their goals as stated in the
program. They benefitted from their experience with the previous adjustment operation (EMRSO).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rating: Overall, Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from this operation are specific to the adjustment credit or related to the broader,
unfinished agenda for public finance reforms.
(i) Lessons from SAC III
Design. A single-tranche operation can be an effective tool to address specific issues and provide limited
budget support to the Government in the context of a difficult policy dialogue. Because of the important
disagreements with the authorities on the content and pace of the reform program in the agricultural sector,
the Bank decided in 1998 to cancel a large sectoral adjustment credit which had been under preparation for
almost three years. The EMRSO and SAC III were designed as transitional arrangements to contribute to
the financing of the budget gap while completing the analytical work to inform the debate about the
development strategy. The positive results of these two one-tranche operations underline the importance of
taking the time to build consensus on the reform agenda, and the need to avoid conditionality-driven
operations (see above).
Timing. External financial assistance is more effective when provided at the start of the Govermment's
fiscal year, so that the support is known in advance to be available and can be used as a basis for making
domestic budget management more predictable. SAC III was effective because it was tied to the budget
cycle and provided compensatory financing for a reform program that was well defined in advance. The
- 13 -



single tranche was released in late December 1999 and, although the credit was partly used to finance the
end-of the year financial gap, a large fraction of the funds was available to the Government at the beginning
of their fiscal year 2000 and included in budgetary planning.
Focus. Because public resources are fungible and given the nature of adjustment lending, it is more
appropriate to focus on the Government's overall use of resources than on its specific use of Bank funds.
This points to the need for a sound knowledge of the country's public fnancial management arrangements.
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was recently completed in Burkina Faso and the
preparation of a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) will start shortly. The adjustment
instrument itself can be very effective in preparing the analytical work, in identifying the weaknesses in the
system and in supporting the policy reforms and institutional changes needed to improve financial
accountability.
Long-Term Approach. The reforms supported by this operation, especially tax and trade reform, were
described as essential to create an environment conducive to efficient private sector investment and growth,
One needs to keep in mind, though, that transition to a more competitive economy is a long term process
and there is a limit to what a single adjustment lending activity can achieve. This SAC was one of the initial
efforts of the Bank to support a new paradigm-the accelerated growth strategy- in Burkina Faso and it
was expected that the reform process would be supported with subsequent lending. Public finance reform
and regional integration will benefit Burkina Faso's growth over the medium and long-term.
(ii) Lessons Learned to be Applied to Remaining Agenda
Challenges of Public Expenditures Management. Improved public expenditure management requires
fundamental changes in the Government's range of commitments. Efforts based on attempts to control
expenditures strictly from an administrative perspective will have limited success. As a result of SAC III, a
MTEF is now recognized by the Burkinabe authorities as a necessary step for improving the overall
effectiveness of budgetary management. However, one important lesson learned from the operation is that
some practical difficulties will need to be addressed in the near future: (i) Opportunities for obtaining
extra-budgetary resources must be controlled. This is not an easy task in a highly aid-dependent country
like Burkina Faso, especially when aid coordination is sub-optimal; (ii) to achieve greater benefits of the
MTEF and to ensure that it is welcomed by all line ministries, the process of financial decentralization and
delegation of authority must move forward. Budget-driven policy changes will be sustainable only if
resource allocations become more predictable as a result of the adoption of the MTEF. The credibility of
the process will be undermined if the Ministry of Economy and Finance is unable to stick to its
commitments; (iii) technical improvements to revenue and debt forecasting and measures to smooth the
flow of foreign aid (especially grants) will constitute an important requirement for a rigorous MTEF. After
Board approval of SAC III, the Bank supported a Burkinabe team working on the medium-term
macroeconomic framework and modellisation issues. It is crucial that this task be carried out on a regular
basis; and (iv) ensuring that program-costing is more accurate may take some time, as it requires a strong
and reliable information basis for all key sector ministries--and the incentive for such efforts are not always
there.
Capacity building and Knowledge. Changes in Bank assistance to Burkina Faso over the next years--such
as the progressive shift towards program support, debt relief through the HIPC initiative, increased lending
to social sectors--will emphasize the importance of the effectiveness of Government institutions that
manage these transactions, and will reduce the relative importance of tracking individual Government and
Bank projects as a source of fiduciary assurance. Because Government institutions will play an
increasingly important role in providing assurance on the use of Bank funds, the Bank should continue to
- 14 -



support programs to build capacity to manage public finances. The Bank should therefore continuously
improve its knowledge of Burkina Faso's public financial management arrangements through : (i) more
systematic coverage and increased frequency of fiduciary analytical work ; and (ii) the use of information
available from other international organizations-the IMF, IFAC, IASC, and 1NTOSAI-that issue
standards, codes, and guidelines with respect to accounting, auditing, and financial management.
Reporting and Auditing. The requirement to provide the Bank with ex-post informaticin on the Government
annual accounts audited by the Supreme audit institution, and to transmit these budget reports to
Parliament every year has proved to be very effective in improving transparency and in moving towards
accountability in the use of public funds. Even though these audited accounts are not intended to provide
assurance on the specific use to which Bank funds have been applied, they shed light on the overall
financial management performance of Government institutions. It seems appropriate to keep this
requirement-which is already embodied in Burkinabe laws-as a rule for future adjustment operations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Below is an implementation completion report received from the Ministry of Economy and Finance in
December 2000.
Burkina Faso has been engaged since 1991 in a vast program of economic reforms supported by the
Bretton Woods institutions and the development community. Three successive triennial programs,
supported by agreements under the IMF's Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility and by structural
adjustment (SAC 1, EMRSO and SAC III) and sectoral adjustment credits (PASA, PASEC-T) from the
World Bank, have also been implemented. These programs were aimed at laying the groundwork for a
liberal economy functioning according to market principles and in which the private sector would be the
main engine of growth, and they led to profound alterations in the institutional and economic environment.
The country has, especially since the 1994 devaluation, resumed sustained growth (5,5 percent on average
between 1994 and 1999), accompanied in particular by the adjustment of public finances, the
modernization of the economic administration, the restructuring of the banking and public enterprise
sectors, and the modernization and development of financial institutions.
The present document was produced by the Burkinabe authorities to report on the final status of the third
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) in the amount of 18 million SDRs (US$ 25 million excluding fees
and taxes) granted by the World Bank during the 1999 fiscal year. The first section reiterates the
objectives of SAC III, the second relates the main results obtained, and the third states the main lessons to
be learned from the operation.
Project objectives
The SAC III is part of the World Bank's strategy to help Burkina Faso consolidate recent progress in
macroeconomic management and to move from the stabilization phase on to a phase of enhanced structural
reforms and sustained economic growth. Its purpose is to support a reform program intended to:
-     enhance the economy's competitiveness so as to achieve significant acceleration of the medium
term growth rate and a perceptible reduction in poverty in the country;
-     improve the management of public finances, and particularly tax policy and the use of public
resources;
-     accompany implementation of the new phase of the common external tariff (CET) adopted by the
- 15 -



West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), which went into effect on January 1, 2000.
Achievement of the main objectives
Macroeconomic objectives
Restoration of GDP growth
The overall macro-economic objectives were achieved over the 1997-1999 period. GDP in constant prices
increased at an annual rate of 4.5 percent between 1985 and 1999, rising from CFAF 663.1 billion to
CFAF 1,120.1 billion. Between 1985 and 1990/91 GDP trends were characterized by a series of growth
and recession phases. The economy was strongly dependent upon the primary sector, and mainly on
agriculture. Climatic conditions were unstable during this period, however, affecting agricultural yields
and production in such a way that the sector's performance had a strong impact on overall GDP growth.
From 1990 to 1994, the annual growth rate was 2.4 percent. Although this situation could be seen as due
to a sluggish international economy and unfavorable world prices for raw materials, the causes were deeper
and specific to the economy of Burkina Faso: the terms of trade deteriorated steadily over the period,
reflecting the economy's loss of competitiveness; implementation of reforms under the Structural
Adjustment Program forced the economy to "adapt"; and, in particular, the rumors and expectations, in
1993, of a CFAF devaluation prevented an investment-friendly climate of confidence from establishing
itself. Following the 1994 devaluation, GDP (in real terms) fell by 1.2 percent, due to a decline in activity
in the secondary and tertiary sectors of 2.4 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively. This drop is explained
essentially by the contraction of domestic demand resulting from the loss of purchasing power on the part
of households and the wait-and-see attitude adopted by economic operators.
On the other hand, GDP seems to be on the upswing since the devaluation: it increased by 4.1 percent in
1995, 6.2 percent in 1996, 5.5 percent in 1997, 5.7 percent in 1998 and 5.8 percent in 1999. Although
the primary sector continues to drive economic growth, the two other sectors are also showing a respectable
level of activity.
Price trends
After the price hike that occurred in 1994 due to the devaluation, the consumer price index continued to
rise, but less quickly. Prices have been more or less under control since then: the inflation rate, which was
6.1 percent in 1996, 7.3 percent in 1997, and 4.9 percent in 1998, stabilized at -1.1 percent in 1999.
This last result is explained by an increase in cereals production in 1998 and 1999 (16.8 percent and 1.6
percent, respectively) following two consecutive years of good rainfall, which resulted in a decline in the
price of agricultural products.
Public finances
Improvements to the budget system since -1994, combined with the introduction of tools and instruments for
budgetary management, have led to a definite improvement in the public finance situation. The situation
remains fragile, however, and the progress made needs to be solidified. Since 1994, public fnances have
improved as a result of improved budget revenues and firm control over public expenditures. Over the
1997-1999 period, current revenues increased by 18 percent, and the share represented by tax revenues
averaged 92.6 percent . Despite these favorable results, the tax/GDP ratio, although it increased in relation
to what it was in 1990, stagnated at 12 percent between 1990 and 1995 before rising to about 13 percent
- 16 -



or 14 percent in 1999. The revenue/GDP ration also evolved in the same direction over the entire period.
However, a change has been occurring since 1996 in the structure of tax revenues, since taxes on goods
and services rose from CFAF 37.9 billion to CFAF 51.3 billion between 1997 and 1999, for an increase of
35.4 percent, whereas import revenues (i.e., taxes on external trade) have only increased by an average of
1.6 percent over those two years (with, in addition, a deviation, since they declines by 7.1 percent between
1997 and 1998, but then increased by 9.4 percent between 1998 and 1999). Thus, the share of import
revenues within tax revenues went from 51.2 percent to 44.2 percent between 1997 and 1999.
Grants increase most significantly during 1999, although their level has always been relatively high (on
average 30 percent of total resources over the 1985-1996 period, excepting 1989). They represented 39.8
percent of total resources in 1999, compared to 30.1 percent in 1997; the observed increase consists of
project-related grants which involved 83.3 percent of the grant total in 1999, comipared to 32.1 percent in
1998.
Budget ratios
1996        1997       1998        1999
Total revenues (excluding        12.3%       13.1%       13.1%       15.0%
privatization)/GDP
Tax revenues as share of GDP     11.5%       12.0%       12.0%       14.0%
Cunent expenditures as share of GDP  10.4%   10.1%       10.4%       11.3%
Investnents as share of equity/GDP  1.2%     2.7%        3.1%        2.6%
Projects under extemal financing/GDP  9.6%   9.7%        9.9%        12.1%
Source: TOFE, STC/PDES
Regarding expenditures, it was only in 1994 that a clear improvement was noted: from 1990 to 1994 total
expenditures increased by 73.4 percent , current expenditures by 54 percent (despite containment of the
wage bill) and capital expenditures by 111 percent. Starting in 1995, budget ratios for public expenditures
improved: in 1999 the wage bill had declined to only 46.1 percent of current expenditures (although this
level is still above the 40 percent maximum set by WAEMU as a convergence criterion), and current
expenditures rose from an average of 10 percent of GDP between 1996 and 1998 to 11.6 percent of GDP
in 1999 (which was the level reached in 1995).
Over the 1997-1999 period, considerable effort was made with regard to capital expenditures financed out
of equity: their amount rose from CFAF 32.8 billion to CFAF 41.2 billion, for an increase of 125.6
percent. In relation to total investment expenditures, capital expenditures financed out of equity went from
22.1 percent to 17.5 percent between 1997 and 1999, for an increase of 159 percent in total investment
expenditures over the same period, and the percentage of GDP went from 3.3 percent to 3.7 percent. This
result is attributable to marked progress in the area of budget savings.
Budget savings eroded steadily over the 1985-1994 period, dropping from CFAF 14.2 billion to CFAF
-22.3 billion (or 2.2 percent of GDP). On the other hand, between 1995 and 1999 the share of budget
savings in GDP went from 0.6 percent to 3.1 percent. As for the baseline cash deficit between 1997 and
1999 (which grew from 40 billion CFAF to CFAF 70.5 billion), the increase is due to the explosive growth
of capital expenditures, especially those associated with grant-related projects, and to growing investment
efforts financed out of equity -- +10.8 percent in 1998 and +43.6 percent in 1999 -- as well as to
- 17 -



continued efforts to reduce payment arrears.
Budget indicators
1996       1997        1998         1999
Budget savings (")                          26.87       42.58      41.20        58.70
as %ofGDP                                   2.1%        3.1%        2.7%         3.7%
Primary surplus(**)                         21.49       14.84       6.34         5.11
as % of GDP                                  1.7%       1.1%        0.4%         0.3%
Overall balance of commitments (**)          9.99        3.12       -6.39        -8.61
as % of GDP                                  0.8%       0.2%       -0.4%        -0.5%
Overall baseline cash balance, excl.grants  -133.61   -143.46    -165.59       -210.02
(*) current revenues, minus operating costs including net interest payments on debt and loans
(*): current revenues, minus net expenditures and loans, excluding restructuring, extemally financed projects and debt
interest
(***): excluding grants, restructuring costs and extemally financed investments
Sources: TOFE STC/PDES
Public debt
Outstanding debt has increased steadily since 1985, and although it decreased in 1998 by 2.5 percent, it
still stands at 52.4 percent of GDP, i.e., at CFAF 793.1 billion (as against CFAF 178 billion in 1985), for
an average annual growth rate of outstanding debt of over 12 percent. Burkina has, however, benefited
from important debt cancellations: CFAF 60.2 billion in 1989 in connection with the Dakar Initiative, and
CFAF 70 billion after the devaluation (Dakar II Initiative). Over the 1995-1998 period, the average annual
growth rate was 4.1 percent for external debt, and 7.5 percent for internal debt.
Outstanding debt
1985          1990          1995          1996          1997           1998         1999
Public debt                     178.0         223.8         699.5         728.7          813.3         845.9         930.5
as %ofGDP                       26.8%         28.8%         61.1%         59.3%         59.1%          57.4%         60.3%
Public extemal debt             165.5         208.6         667.5         692.6         768.2          799.5         888.2
as % of total debt              93.0%         93.2%         95.4%         95.0%         94.5%          94.5%         95.5%
Public intemal debt             12.5          15.3          32.0          36.1          45.1           46.3          42.3
Debt service and arrears
Despite trend fluctuations linked to various debt arrangements, this indicator increased on average by 14.6
percent per year between 1985 and 1999, i.e., at a pace lower than that of outstanding debt. Lending
conditions evolved towards more concessional loans. In relation to GDP, debt service did not exceed 3
percent, except in 1994 and 1995 (prior to the Dakar II Initiative) and in 1999 (when it was 3.4 percent of
GDP). As a percentage of current revenues, the average over the 1995-1998 period was 22.1 percent .
- 18 -



Although these levels are still "acceptable", they still require close surveillance, since budget revenues are
still relatively unstable and debt service weighs heavily on the Government budget.
Debt service
1996            1997            1998            1999
Public internal debt                             14.16            8.33             8.98           17.07
as %ofthe total                                  37.5%           25.0%           25.2%           34.5%
Interest                                          2.60            3.02             3.23            3.36
Principal                                        11.57            5.31             5.75           13.72
Public external debt                             23.64           25.03            26.71           32.35
as % of exports                                  19.9%           18.7%           14.0%           20.7%
Interest                                          8.90            8.70             9.50           10.36
Principal                                        14.74           16.32            17.20           21.99
Public debt service                              37.81           33.35            35.69           49.42
as % of GDP                                       2.9%            2.4%            2.3%            3.1%
Interest                                         11.50            11.72           12.73           13.72
Principal                                        26.31           21.63            22.96           35.70
Here again, although external debt service outweighs internal debt service, the differential is less great
compared to the earlier situation. This trend is attributable to more restrictive and less concessional lending
terms. However, the ratio of external debt service to exports has tended to improve since 1995, rising from
21.2 percent to 24.5 percent in 1999. This trend can be explained by the 17.8 percent drop in the volume
of exports in 1999, whereas external debt service rose by 24.1 percent. Regarding arrears, those having to
do with external debt have been entirely cleared since 1996, with the exception of an unspent balance on
loans granted by Libya and the former Soviet Union, which amount to less than CFAF 5 billion. As for
internal debt arrears, the situation has improved here also: since 1997 they have been stable at 16 billion
CFAF.
- 19-



Structural reform measures
Reform in tax policy
Impact of WAEMU
Burkina Faso is committed to the process of integration into WAEMU which began in 1994. A major step
in this process was the creation of a customs union in 2000. Burkina Faso is in agreement with all the
outlined prospects, namely the temporary preferential trade regime and the timetable for establishment of
the common external tariff which involved some intermediate steps. Thus, as of July 1, 1996, the
Government adopted the 30 percent reduction in entry fees for industrial products of approved origin;
exoneration of all fees and taxes for entry into member states for products originating in member countries
and traditional handicrafts; and a 5 percent reduction in entry fees for non-approved products. In addition,
as of July 1, 1997, the exemption for approved industrial products was increased to 60 percent. It was
raised to 80 percent as of July 1, 1999.
Since January 1, 2000, all arrangement have been made to implement the common external tariff. The
fiscal system now has 4 categories of products and 4 customs duty rates: 0, 5, 10 and 20 percent. The
maximum rate was reduced to 20 percent and the statistical tax to 1 percent. The adoption and
implementation of these various measures has caused fiscal revenues to decline. Simulations have shown
that the loss of revenue is about 1 percent of GDP for the first two years of implementation of the TEC,
and 2 percent for the third year. The impact of the new customs tariff was appreciable over the
1998-2000 period, even after the reduction in debt service under the HIPC initiative.
1996    1997    1998    1999   2000    2001      2002
Actuals              FASR Program 1999-2003
Taxes on international trade  45.8    50.9    51.6   45.6    38.3    40.4    43.4
As % of GDP               3.5%    3.7%    3.4%    2.9%    2.2%      2.1%     2.1%
Of which, external trade fees    45.4    48.6   45.7   42.1    34.0  36.2    39.0
As % of GDP               3.5%    3.5%    3.0%    2.6%    2.0%      1.9%     1.9%
Current GDP              1298.3  1390.6  1524.0  1591.5  1712.0   1897.0  2060.0
Estimated revenues
excluding TEC
(3% of projected GDP)                              47.7    51.4      56.9    61.8
Over the 2000-2002 period, the effect will continue to be felt. Revenue forecasts from international trade
fees in the PRGF program indicate losses estimated at CFAF 17.4 billion in 2000, 20.7 billion in 2001 and
22.8 billion in 2001.
Enlargement of the tax base
Taking into account the anticipated impact of the common external tariff on budget resources, and in order
to avoid increasing the tax burden on economic operators, the Government has undertaken an policy of
enlarging the tax base. Measures have been taken to strengthen tax collection and to combat tax fraud
more effectively (Law N38/98/ADP dated July 30, 1998). The Government has also taken measures, in
connection with the Budget bill of 2000, to institute withholding at the source, at the point of customs
-20 -



processing, and on wholesale purchases, deductible from corporate income taxes. The various regulatory
texts pertaining to this have been passed by the National Assembly. Withholding at the source (i.e., of an
installment of 2 percent ) was instituted as of January 1, 2000 (see Article 16 of the Budget bill of 2000),
as was source withholding on payments made to non-residents for services rendered.
In addition, out of a concern to streamline the system of exemptions and attenuate its perverse effects on the
economy, a study of exemptions was launched. It analyzes the legal bases for the various exemption
categories, assesses their financial cost and offers proposals to reduce exemptions to a maximum level of
10 percent of tax revenues. These proposals include the simple elimination of exceptional exemptions, the
reduction of exemptions granted under the Investment Code, and the retention of exemptions associated
with externally financed projects and of those granted in connection with diplomatic privileges. The
measure aimed at stopping indirect tax exemptions and entry fee exemptions under the Investment Code
cannot be implemented until the Investment Code within WAEMU is harmonized.
Finally, in order to combat fraud, the Government has reinforced the operational capacities of the agencies
charged with preventing contraband and fraud, in particular by equipping the Coordination Nationale de
Lutte contre la Fraude with offices and equipment. Several arrangements have also been made with the
customs administration, including: additional staff for customs brigades, and exchanges of information
between customs services and other external services at the national and international levels with member
countries of the International Customs Union. To this end, a Regional Office for liaison with neighboring
countries has been created within the customs service's fifth division. Further efforts to combat fraud will
include, in the near future, the assignment of customs officers to certain countries with a high rate of transit
towards Burkina Faso and the creation of units for deferred and ex-post surveillance.
Reduction of 35 percent in the Corporate Income Tax and study of a 20 percent reduction
The Government is aware of the burden that taxation imposes upon the productivity of enterprises and, in
order to exploit the opportunities offered by economic integration into WAEMU and ECOWAS, it has
undertaken a progressive reduction in the corporate income tax. The drop to 35 percent takes effect under
the Budget bill of 2000 (Article 11) as of January 1, 2000. A study, for which terms of reference have
been completed, will be completed in early 2001 in order to determine the macroeconomic impact of lower
taxation of enterprises. This study will allow the Government to ascertain the implications of the planned
20 percent reduction in the BIC rate.
Regulation lifting the ban on exporting hides and leathers
The text issued by the Government is Bylaw N99-004/MCIA/SG/DGC dated April 13, 1999, from the
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Crafts. This text was published in the local press.
Passage of a law on the organization of professional training
A document providing guidelines on this subject was approved by the Council of Ministers in September
1999.
Increase in the threshold for enterprises subject to the simplified tax regime from CFAF 15 million to
CFAF 30 million
This issue will also be approached in the context of the planned study on the macroeconomic implications
of lower taxes.
- 21 -



Improvement of customs and tax administration
Within the Direction Geinirale des Impots (DGI)
Rational administration of economic operators requires that financial administrations have a thorough
familiarity with the taxable population. In addition, taxpayer registration is an indispensable step in
moving forward with the computerization of services. The computerization of the DGI's activities,
especially for taxpayer registration and integrated tax management (1998-1999), is nearing completion.
The DGI is now equipped with a software consisting of three modules covering the three main functions of
a tax administration, namely: taxpayer identification and monitoring; determination of the tax base; and tax
collection. The central taxpayer registry has been purged, and the adjustment of the software for the tax
base and tax collection is done. All cable installation and renovation work has been completed. Training
of software users, scheduled for the second quarter of 1999, took place as planned. A test is underway to
check the software. After the test, the DBASE IV software modules will be transferred to ORACLE. The
DGI's two main offices (Kadiogo I and Houet I) are henceforth computerized.
Within the Customs Service
In order to increase efficiency and improve statistics, the Government has been in the process of
computerizing customs offices since 1996, through the installation of the SYDONIA system. The
computerization of six additional customs offices (planned for December 1998), which was the follow-up
to this measure, occurred during 1999.
Computerization of the processing of manifests is intended to boost the efficiency of the customs
administration. The computerization of this process (planned for December 1998) has been tested at the
airport. The test concluded in late November 1998. The test at the airport yielded positive results, and is
now being expanded to other customs stations. Documents pertaining to each mode of transport have been
drawn up. Computerized processing of manifests has been operational since June 1, 2000.
Measures envisaged by WAEMU, especially regarding the free circulation of goods, require a
strengthening of the system for verifying the value and the origin of merchandize. Since 1992, Burkina has
been relying on the SGS to perform the initial verification of imported merchandize. This agency is
cooperating in the establishment of a reference list of merchandize values within the Customs Service. The
Customs Service currently has a hard copy catalog compiled on the basis of data collected from the SGS
and customs offices. It is updated regularly by an ad hoc commission (the value commission created within
the Customs Service). The system has been upgraded through the installation of new software for the
computerized management of this data. It was put in place with support from the SGS. A first list of
values became available in late 1998, and a second list was compiled during the second quarter of 1999 and
made available to customs offices. The telephone line that was needed was obtained during the first quarter
of 1999. The linkage with SGS is now operational. File indexes are in place and are added to each week.
The introduction of a system for reconciling files of affidavits of value (SGS) with those of customs
declarations (December 1998) experienced some technical difficulties. Indeed, the inspectors' reports had
not been copied into declarations submitted by the bureaus, which made it difficult to know which product
has been inspected and which had not. These initial technical problems have been resolved, and the
merging of the two files is now complete.
Budget procedures and public expenditure management
-22 -



Since the implementation of the Structural Adjustment Program, important measures have been taken to
improve the budget system, its management and the composition of public expenditures. Over the past few
years, the authorities have developed numerous tools and instruments that are now operational, including:
the computerized circuit for managing public expenditures; the new budgetary nomenclature adapted to
budgetary practices; the system of administrative and salary management for Government personnel; and,
very recently, integrated accounting of Government accounts. In the context of a streamlining of budget
management, the Government likewise adopted in 1998 the program budget approach as a new
methodology for developing and implementing the State budget. Six ministries, inclluding those charged
with basic education and health, were selected to test the approach before it was expanded to all ministries.
When the 1999 budget was being drawn up, more targeted interventions were carried out; these were aimed
at making participants in the budget process more aware of the goals of the new approach and at training
them in the implementation methodology, including:
definition of objectives to be attained during a given period in response to a need;
identification of programs and activities to be implemented to fulfill those objectives;
*     assessment of activities to be carried out;
*     development of indicators required to assess the results of an intervention.
In order to increase the transparency of budget implementation and the efficacy of public expenditures, the
Government opted to re-institute the practice of public expenditure reviews.
Budget procedures and management
The public expenditure review
Since 1999, the Government has undertaken, with help from the World Bank, to resume and systematize
the Public Expenditure Review (PER) as an instrument for continuous improvement of budgetary policies.
In order to do this, it adopted a work program in 1999 aimed at internalizing the process and including it in
the framework for consultation with development partners. This approach made it possible to carry out two
PERs in 1999, in the health and basic education sectors. These two studies were able to incorporate results
of two other studies undertaken in the same connection that concerned the institutional framework of the
public investment program and the implementation of the State budget by regionalized structures of the
Administration.
The PERs in the sectors of basic education and health made it possible to: i) gain an overview of the overall
budget framework ; ii) study the budgeting system ; iii) analyze the distribution of credits; iv) assess the
impact of public expenditures.
The PERs issued recommendations and were the subject of information workshops that gave the
administration, development partners and representatives of associations and non-governmental
organizations Parent/Teacher associations, labor unions, associations of physicians in private practice, etc.
an opportunity to discuss the relevance of the proposals and to validate the results obtained. The
Government approved a report on a timetable for implementation of the recommendations emerging from
the studies. See Annex 1
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
The Government has become aware that the program budget can only be introduced gradually and that
interventions must be programmed within an ever-changing framework, in such a way that the required
- 23 -



change in mindset has time to take hold. In order to support this approach, actions and reflections occurred
during April 2000 to effectively shape the preparation of program budgets and of the annual budget. Based
upon these reflections, the working group charged with the PER was able to draw up a MTEF in
collaboration with development partners and civil society (i.e., labor unions, private firms, NGOs, CESs,
National Assembly, House of Representatives, etc.). Sectoral budget allocations were determined for the
next three years and the introduction of additional budget guidance instruments was planned.
While giving Burkina's Administration the additional capacity to handle the triennial programming of
budget expenditures, the MTEF workshop made it possible at the same time to come up with a diagnostic
of the current budget system, and then to make suggestions for improvement, taking into account the
demands of a triennial budget framework. The MTEF consists of the following elements:
proposals for needed budget reform and a medium term vision for budget policy;
*     analysis of the macroeconomic outlook and growth prospects for the next three years
an overview of the country's social welfare situation, with national priorities highlighted;
a proposed budget policy for the next three years;
proposed sectoral financing allocations for the 2001-2003 period.
This framework was approved by the Council of Ministers and will be henceforth expanded to include all
Ministries and institutions. This MTEF will be updated each year. It applies to: (i) the public investment
program; and (ii) operating expenditures, which must be in sync with objectives regarding social and
infrastructural indicators (2000-2003). The goal of the MTEF is to limit public expenditures and
progressively to modify their composition in favor of priority sectors such as health, education and
infrastructure maintenance. It should be stressed that this workshop also made it possible to expand the
program budget system to all ministerial departments and to set sectoral budget allocations for Categories
II, III, IV, and VI of the State budget for all ministries. The budget for 2000 is a program budget. It should
be noted that the budget for 2001 now under preparation is in the same vein. Implementation of the MTEF
under the 2001 budget will support the process of program budgeting. These program budgets, which
propose medium-term budget plans, will be submitted to the National Assembly at the same time as the
Finance Law for the 2001 fiscal year.
Circuits of expenditure
In order to improve the efficiency of the State's financial management and budget preparation and
monitoring, the Government has undertaken to computerize the services of the Ministry of Finance, with
priority given to the unit responsible for monitoring investment expenditures and to the management of
budget balances. Regarding investments, the expenditure circuit for investments out of equity has been
operational since 1996.  The expenditure review  dealt with the education and health sectors,
decentralization of budget implementation, as well as with improving the framework for presenting and
monitoring the Public Investment Program.
Regarding the budget balance, the specific module in the expenditure circuit was included in the Integrated
Administration and Salary Management System for Government Personnel (Systeme Integre de Gestion
Administrative et Salariale du Personnel de l'Etat, SIGASPE). The system began operating in August
1999. The computerization of the merged data files for the Civil Service and Budget Office is operational.
The integrated and automated system of administration and salary management of Government personnel
has been introduced. All administrative procedures relative to personnel management have been codified.
Arrangements have been made to strengthen the functional links between the DRH and the DAAF.
- 24 -



The system for managing public debt data with the SYGADE system was set up in 1998 with the purchase
of computer equipment and software and their installation in a network. Problems of information
circulation among the various services involved (Direction de la Dette Publique, Direction Generale de la
Coopiration pour les decaissements de crddits, Central Bank) remain to be resolved, however. The
interface of SYGADE with the circuit of expenditures has also not been accomplished yet. Technicians
have yet to be trained on the ORACLE software. As regards the integration of Government accounting,
some modules have been developed, but others remain to be finalized. A consultant nmission is scheduled
for November 2000 to complete the modules and train the users.
Preparation of budget closure laws for 1994-1996
A committee responsible for drawing up draft budget closure laws is now at work. Draft laws for 1994
through 1996 have been finalized. Line item checking is ongoing for 1996.
Reinforcement of the statistical apparatus
The 1996 census is complete and the results were published in June 1998. The work now underway deals
with analysis of census results. In this connection, 12 themes have been selected and the analysis entrusted
to specialists. The first draft of this work was submitted and examined at two workshops held in
Ouagadougou and Tenkodogo during the first quarter of 2000. Amendments emerging from these
workshops will be taken into account and the results of the analysis published by late December 2000.
The definitive accounts series for 1989-93 were published in 1998. Work on synthesizing the national
accounts series for 1994-96 are underway. The death of the Technical Assistant assigned to this task will
likely slow down this work. Although they were supposed to be available in March 2000, the provisional
and partial accounts for 1994 through 1997, and possibly for 1998, will not be available until the end of
2000.
Work on revising the industrial production index (IPI), which involves revision of the industrial base and of
the methodology, has been suspended pending the results of the effort to harmonize the IPI under WAEMU
and AFRISTAT in such a way as to conform to their guidelines, as was done with the Harmonized
Consumer Price Index.
The analytical plan for the priority household survey II is complete. The two reports -- on statistical
analysis of the priority survey II and development of the poverty profile -- were produced, re-read and
amended in early August 2000. The results should be published by September 2000. Workshops for
dissemination the results will be organized once the reports have been published.  A databank of
socioeconomic information, especially for such priority sectors as education and health, assumed concrete
form with the development of a social welfare performance chart.
Regulatory framework and sectoral policies
The goal here is to improve the legal and regulatory framework for business, by creating an environment
conducive to the development of the judicial system.
Restructuring ofpublic enterprises
In the context of restructuring the telecommunications sector, two mobile wireless telephone licenses have
been awarded to private operators. The privatization of ONATEL has thus begun. Bidding documents for
-25 -



the recruitment of an investment bank to handle the study aimed at defining a privatization strategy were
examined by the Privatization Commission in early September 2000. A report and non-objection request
were addressed to the World Bank for the recruitment of this investment bank. Privatization of the
management of the Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso airports is underway.
Regarding energy sector reform, laws are envisaged that will provide a regulatory framework for the
electricity sector and open SONABHY's capital to private operators.
Creation of an environment conducive to private sector development
The Government's efforts in this area have focused on establishing an entrepreneurs' center (underway),
updating the private sector development strategy, developing the new private sector support program, and
harmonizing national regulations with those of OHADA (Organisation pour I 'Harmonisation du Droit des
Affaires).
A mission from FIAS (a consulting service for foreign investment) visited Burkina Faso in May and June
2000 and made a series of concrete recommendations for simplifying the registration procedures required of
enterprises in Burkina Faso.
The framework for Government/private sector consultation has also been revitalized for the monitoring of
the new private sector support program.
Regarding the reinforcement of the judicial system, actions undertaken to put national and foreign private
investment of solid footing include: the review (i.e., inventory and editing) of regulatory texts pertaining to
enforcement of OHADA rules; training of magistrates and judicial support staff; and the establishment of a
registry of business and equipment loans.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
-26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome IImpact Indicatoms:
111, 04 I I          ~Proiecum I int PS                     AuaR$ _Estmt
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pl                                                AdwN_          , mll
Annual GDP per capita over 3 percent  non applicable                       Estimated at 3.0 percent in 1999
Inflation rate under 3 percent       n.a.                                 -1.1 percent in 1999
Maintaining fiscal sustainability    n.a.                                  Govemment deficit (including grants) was
2.9 percent in 1993 and 3.4 percent in 1999
Improving domestic competitiveness   n.a.                                  Some input costs have decreased over the
past two years (telecommunications)
Attracting private investment        n.a.                                  Privatization revenue amounted to 6.5 billions
of CFA in 1998, 3.7 billions in 1999, and is
estimated at 14 billions in 2000
Output Indicators:
;___________                             Proctd in last PSR                   AtEILtst Etmate
Reduce tax rates: lowering the corporate    n.a.                           The shortfall in fiscal revenue was smaller
income tax from 40 percent to 35 percent                                   than anticipated
Adopt measures to modemize the main tax  n.a.                              Tax revenue increased from CFAF 199.5
offices                                                                    billion in 1998 to 221 billion in 1999; in spite
of the reduction in tax rates and the
implementation of a new, lower extemal tariff
regime, tax revenLie is estimated to reach
CFA 209 billions in 2000
Public spending on education and health is
Adopt measures to rationalize expenditures  n.a.                           up, and monitoring indicators are in place to
and reallocate funding to social sectors                                   assess its impact: the share of Govermment
spending on health and education (excluding
foreign-financed investment and interest
expenditures) increased from 26.4 percent in
1997 to 28.1 percent in 1999
Adopt measures to increase transparency   n.a.                             Parliament and the Supreme audit institution
are now involved in the auditing of
Govemment accounts
Implement the WAEMU's Common Extemal n.a.                                  The Burkinabe economy is more liberalized
Tariff: lowering the maximum tariff rate from                              and the regional iintegration process is
25 percent to 20 percent                                                   moving forward
Create a regulatory authority for the  n.a.                                Telecommunications costs in Burkina have
telecommunications sector                                                  been reduced by 40 percent on average in a
year
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
. j; ., :: r Etimate                     stiate    ,Appraisall
::   f  Proct Cost By Copoent                  US  f      million:  U$$ArWh milo    _______:_
Credit Amount                                         25.00          25.00
Total Baseline Cost                                   25.00           25.00
Physical Contingencies                                0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                   0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs             25.00           25.00
Total Financing Required              25.00           25.00
- 28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implemnentation     Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty              .         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
May-August 1999               2    Economists                            S                 S
I   Private sector development            S                 S
specialist
I   Education specialist                  S                 S
2    Health specialists                   S                 S
Appraisal/Negotiation
September-Oct. 1999           2   Economists                            HS                 S
I   PSD specialist                        S                 S
I   Education specialist                  S                 S
I   Health specialist                     S                 S
Supervision
Dec. 1999-Nov. 2000            2  Economists                             S                  S
I  PSD specialist                        S                  S
I  Public Sector Management              S
specialist
3   Consultants (budget                 HS
management specialists and
macro-modelling)
ICR
Feb.-Dec. 2000                 2   Economists                            S                 S
I   Consultant                            S                 S
3   Peer reviewers (economists)           S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               14.42                    48,946.90
Appraisal/Negotiation                       5                       19,000
Supervision                                 4                       15,200
ICR                                         6                     19,284.00
Total                                    29.42                   102,470.90
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
ZSector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
2 Environmental                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  O SU OM  ON  O NA
I Private sector development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management               * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Ol Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 31-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
* Lending                                           OHS OS Ou OHU
* Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU   OHU
N Government implementation performance             O HS OS  OU         O HU
X Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS  OU         O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Not applicable
- 33 -



