Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  9907-PH   Type: (SAR)               Report No. 9907-PH
ASHER, S. / X81393 / E-8039/ AS2PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 20, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of September 1991)
Currency Unit   =      Philippine Peso (P)
US$1         P 28.00
P 1    =     US$0.036
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -  Asian Development Bank
AIM         -  Asian Institute of Management
CAD         -  Computer-aided design
CNC         -  Conmputerized numerically controlled
COA         -  Commission on Audit
DBM         -  Department of Budget and .4anagement
DECS        -  Department of Education, Culture and Sports
DLSU        -  De La Salle University
DOF         -  Department of Finance
DOST        -  Department of Science and Technology
ICB         -  International competitive bidding
ITDI        -  Industrial Technology Development Institute
LAN         -  Local area networking
LCB         -  Local competitive bidding
MAT         -  Master of Arts in Teaching
MIRDC       -  Metal Industry Research and Development Center
MOT         -  Management of Technology
NCR         -  National Capital Region
NEDA        -  National Economic and Development Authority
O&M         -  Operation and Maintenance
PAG         -  Project Advisory Group
PCASTRD     -  Philippine Council for Advanced Science and
Technology Research and Development
PCIERD      -  Philippine Council for Industry and Energy Research and
Development
PICO        -  Project Implementation ard Coordinating Office
PPAR        -  Project Performance Audit Report
R&D         -  Research and Development
RSTC        -  Regional Science Teaching Center
S&T         -  Science and Technology
SEI         -  Science Education Institute
SELF        -  Science and Engineering Laboratory Fund
SOE         -  Statement of Expenditure
STCC        -  Science and Technology Coordinating Council
SUCs        -  State Universities and Colleges
TAPI        -  Technology Application and Promotion Institute
TPAE        -  Technical Panel for Agricultural Education
TPEE        -  Technical Panel of Engineering Education
TPS         -  Technical Panel for Science
UPD         -  University of the Philippines at Diliman
UPLB        -  University of the Philippines at Los Banos
USC         -  University of San Carlos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
June - March



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPI
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:       Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          US$85.0 million equivalent
Terms            Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace at the
standard variable Interest rate.
Proiect
p-eeriotions    In support of the Government's plan to upgrade the country's
industrial technological capability, the project would increase
the supply of well-trained science and technology (S&T) manpower
by strengthening engineering and science education. The project
would specifically aim to: (a) improve institutional mechanisms
and criteria for funding and monitoring engineering and science
education; (b) strengthen colleges of engineering and science
which have met eligibility criteria by increasing their financial
and resource management capacities, adjusting enrollment patterns
to respond to S&T manpower needs, introducing new courses and
programs concerned with management of the environment and
technology, and improving the quality of instruction and
laboratory practices in priority engineering and science fields;
(c) improve science and math instruction in secondary schools to
better prepare students for engineering and science colleges; and
(d) increase institutional capacities to plan and coordinate S&T
manpower development programe.
The project would have a policy action plan and six investment
components. The Policy Action Plan would cover: (a) the
preparation and application of criteria and directives to improve
the institutional framework for funding and monitoring the
quality of engineering and science education, aimed in part at
phasing out over-expanded substandard undergraduate engineering
programs; and (b) the establishment of targets to improve the
enrollment structure as well as the financial and resource
management of institutions selected to participate in the
project. The Investment Comoonents would support: (a) the
development of programs, faculty and laboratories for (i)
engineering education at five state and 14 private institutions,
(ii) scierce education at four state and six private
institutions, with environmental programs strengthened at three
of th-ee institutions, and (iii) management of technology at one
state and two private institutions; (b) expanded reference book
and journal collections, staff development, and networking
arrangements for librariae at three engin-ering and seven science
colleges; (c) in-service teacher training, library books,
laboratory equipment and facilities for improved science and math
education in 110 high schools and 22 teacher training
institutions; and (d) the development of S&T manpower planning
and monitoring capacity within the Department of Science and
Technology (DOST).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:      Quality and efficiency improvements expected at the institutions
participating in the project would permit an annual output of
about 5,000 and 2,000 better trained engineers and scientists,
respectively. Outputs from project institutions would account
for about 20% and 40% of the total annual graduates with
bachelor's degrees in the pr4ority engineering and science
fields, respectively, and about 25% and 100% increases in
engineering and science graduates with advanced degrees.
resp ctively. These engineers and scientists would possess the
appropriate new technology skills and research capability needed
for technology transfer and assimilation, and for efficient
operations of non-traditional industrial plants. The project
would also produce scientists and engineers trained to focus on
protective measures for the urban and industrial environment and
assure the collection of quality baseline data which are
essential for environmental management. The project would also
further expand access to improved high school scierce and math
instruction to better prepare youth for higher education as well
as for employment in S&T fields. The number of high schools with
special emphasis on science and math would increase from the few
currently available in major cities to 110 schools spread over 13
regions. Institutionally, the project would improve DOST's
capacity to plan, coordinate and finance manpower development,
strengthen the Technical Panels' monitoring and advisory roles,
and develop a science and engineering library management system
among the participating universities. With all these
improvements combined, the project should improve the likelihood
of the Government's success in achieving its goals of increasing
industrial productivity and competitiveness.
Risks:          There are several important risks.  First, the social pressure to
further expand underfunded and low quality programs may persist,
resulting in a continued excessive mismatch between supply and
demand. To minimize this risk, the standard-setting and
monitoring roles of the Technical Panels for Engineering and
Science Education would be expanded, and agreement would be
reached with the Guvernment on phasing out the substandard
programs. Second, recurrent cost funding may be inadequate for
O&M and periodic upgrading of laboratories due to the lack of
trained staff and funds. The project would therefore provide
incentives for improvement of laboratory classes and faculty,
would create funds for O&M and upgrading of laboratories, and
would include a study on mechanisms for financing long-term
recurrent technical and financial needs. Third, a potential
brain drain of faculty granted foreign scholarships is another
concern. However, faculty would be bound by the current
conditions of such awards that include a penalty to repay
scholarship costs if they decide not to return to the country
and, for those who return, an obligation to work at their
institutions for a duration of twice the scholarship period. The
effort to link the fields of scholarships to the equipping of
specialized laboratories under the project would also minimize a
loss of faculty as it would allow returning scholars to continue
research and conduct effective teaching. Finally, this is the
first time DOST would be managing a World Bank-assisted project.



- iii -
However, the risk this poses to successful project implem
would be minimized by structuring management functions ar
existing line offices already engaged in similar activiti
developing the MIS for improved program monitoring and by
providing technical assistance for project management.
fstimated Costs:                            Local        Foreig       Total
-------- US$ million -
Engineering education                         19.1        19.9         39,0
Science education and research                19.4        21.4         40.8
Management of technology                       0.2         0.8          1.0
Library networks                               3.0         6.3          9.3
High school science and math/in-service
teacher training                        8.8          7.3         16.1
S&T manpower planning and monitoring           1.0         1            10
Base Cost                              51.5         56.6        108.1
Physical contingencies                         3.3         6.1          9.3
Price contingencies                                       7L3          13.3
Total Project Cost La                  60.8                     12.1
Financing Plan:
Government                                    29.8          -          29.8
Private Universities                          11.1         4.8         15.9
IBRD                                         19.9         65.1         85I0
Total                                         60.8        6130.7
Estimated Disbursements:                         IBRD Fiscal Year
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
-----------US$ million ----------
Annual                                 2.0  11.0  24.0  28.0  15.0   5.0
Cumulative                             2.0  13.0  37.0  65.0  80.0  85.0
te of Return:   Not applicable
'v_:              IBRD No. 23074
Including taxes and duties estimated at US$13.8 million.



- iv -
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pace No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I. MANPOWER FOR INDUSTRIALIZATION AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT . . . . .   1
A. Industrialization.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.    Technology  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  1
C. S&T Manpower.                                                   3
II. ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION     ..                            5
A. Overview of Higher Education                .5
B.  Issues in Engineering and Science Education . . . . . . . . . .   6
Enrollment Structure.                                         7
Quality    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  8
Internal  Efficiency  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
Regulations, Incentives and Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . .  12
C.  Strategy for S&T Manpower Development ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
Government Strategy and Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Bank Experience and Strategy  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
III.  THE PROJECT ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   16
A.    Objectives  and  Scope    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
B.  Detailed Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Policy Action Plan  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  18
Engineering Education ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
Science Education and Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Management of Technology .22
Library Networks .23
Science and Math in Secondary Schools and In-service
Teacher Training .23
S&T Manpower Planning and Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited the
Philippines in November 1990 comprising S.M. Asher (mission leader), V. Demetriou
(sr. architect), K. Siraj (operations adviser), S. Gandhi (YP/economist), and
consultants V. Desa (engineering education specialist), L. Holm-Nielsen (science
education specialist), I. Irvine (environment specialist), S. Tiffin (technology
management specialist), and S.Z Sung (procurement specialist); and an appraisal
mission which viJted the Philippines in March 1991 comprising Asher (mission
leader), Demetrii-, and consultants Desa and R. Weiss (science education
specialist). Ccnsul.tants J. Laya (financial analyst) and H. Beemer (management
expert) contributea during earlier preparation missions. Peer Reviewers were
B. Searle, L. Briggs (ENTPH) and E. Thulstrup (PHREE). The document was cleared
by B.O. Babson (Chief, EA1PH) and C.E. Madavo (Director, EAl).



v
Paa2 No.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . .   25
A. Costs ...   . ... .    25
Summary of Costs            .. .25
Basis of Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
B. Financing                 . . . . ..... . 28
C.  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Introduction              .         ... . . . . . 30
Management Structure, Functions and Staffing  . . . . . . .   31
Procurement              ...33
Disbursements  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
Monitoring and Evaluatiun, Audits and Bank Supervision  . .   36
Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
V.  IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT  . . . . . . .   38
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
A. Benefits .                                                        38
B.  Risks   .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  39
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
TEXT TABLES
1.1:   S&T Manpower Stock and R&D Manpower Per Million
Population   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
4.1:   Summary of Project Costs by Component . . . . . . . . .   25
4.2:   summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure . .   26
4.3:   Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . .       . . . . .   29
4.4:   Annual Budgetary Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
4.5:   Procurement Arrangemants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
ANNEXES
1.   Priority Sectors, Councils Responsible for Priority
Sector Development, and Corresponding Priority
Academic Disciplines Supported under the Project . . .   42
2.   R&D Personnel by Agency, Field a:.d Educational
Qualification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
3.   Skills That Employers Consider Most Important and
Changes Recommended by Employees to University
Education in Science and Engineering . . . . . . . . .   44
4.    Percentage Shares of Female Undergraduate Enrollments
in Selected Colleges of Engineering and Science
by Field, 1990/91  . ............. .  . -.                45
5.   Targets and Monitoring Indicators--Engineering
Education, Science Education and Teacher Training         46
6.   Age of Main Laboratory Equipment (Undergraduate)            52
7.   Budgeting in SUCs and Private Universities  . . . . . .   53



- vi -
Pace No.
8.    Criteria for Selection of Engineering Degree
Institutions; Criteria for Eligible Engineering
Program Proposals; Criteria ror Selection of Science
Degree Institutions; and Criteria for Selection of
Secondary Schools with Programs in Science and
Mathematics......  56
9.  Project Institutions by Region .60
10.    Technical Assistance Programs by Component and Year           61
11.    Procedures, rriteria and Conditionalities Used in
DOST-Supported Manpower Development Programe .64
12.    MOT Specializations to be Developed by UPD, DLSU and
AIM .71
13.    Library Assistance by Institution and Field . . . . . .    72
14.    High Schools and Institutions Responsible for In-
Service Teacher Training by Region .73
15.  Project Costs Summary .74
16.    Project Management Organization .78
17.    Project Advisory Group: Draft Terms of Reference  . . .    79
18.    Disbursement Schedule and Profile .82
19.    Project Processing and Implementation Schedule  . . . .    84
20.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .85
MAP:      IBRD No. 23074



PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING MD SCIENCE EDUCATION PRq,1Z9
I. MANPOWER FOR INDUSTRIALIZATION AND
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
A. Industrialization
1.1       Although the Philippine economy showed a temporary recovery in 1987-
89, with GDP growing at about 6% p.a., the annual growth rate during 1980-90
averaged 1.1%. This was significantly lower than the 5% to 10% growth achieved
by the neighboring countries of Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Korea during
the same period. The stagnant economy combined with the relatively high
population growth rate of around 2.4% led to the negative growth rate of real per
capita GNP, -0.6% p.a., in the 1980s.
1.2       Contributing to the country's weak economic performance has been the
slow pace of industrialization. During 1980-90, the industrial sector grew at a
negative rate of -0.2% p.a., compared with about 5% to 9% in Indonesia, Malaysia
and Thailand, and 12% in Korea. Within industry, manufacturing increased at an
annual rate of about 9% in Thailand and Malaysia, and 13% in Indonesia and Korea,
while in the Philippines it grew at a rate of only 1. Wizh this rapid
industrial growth of the neighboring countries in the 1980s came a significant
transformation in the structures of their economies: during 1965-89, the
percentage share of industry in GDP rose from a low 13% to 36% in Indonesia, 25%
to 43% in Korea, 25% to 40% in Malaysia, and 23% to 38% in Thailand, compared
with 28% to 33% in the Philippines. In terms of percentage increases, the share
of industry grew over the period by about 177% in Indonesia, 60% to 72% in the
other three neighboring countries, and by 18% in the Philippines.
1.3       The Philippines has also been losing its competitiveness in the
external market. Annual export earnings between 1980 and 1990 increased at about
6% in the Philippines, against the considerably higher rates of 11% to 14% in
Malaysia, Thailand and Korea. This slow growth of export earnings was in i'art
due to low productivity which affected Philippine competitiveness. It is
estimated that the current level of productivity in Pnilippine manufacturing is
only marginally higher than the 1973 level and has never been more than 20%
higher tnan that level during the last two decades. At the same time, Thailand's
productivity has more than doubled over the last 20 years and Malaysia's has
grown by about 60%.
1.4       The state of Philippine manufacturing is illustrated by its garments
industry which, as the second largest export industry after electronics,
contributes approximately 20% of the country's current total export earnings.
However, because the garments industry uses imported fabric for exports due to
the inferior quality and higher price cf locally-made textiles, local value-added
in the industry is only an estimated 45%, which cuts the country's potential
earnings from these exports by more than half. With the low productivity and
quality of the textile industry as well as increasing labor costs and the rise of
countries like China and Ine!onesia as major garments exporters, the Philippines
is losing its competitive position.
B. Technolo2y
1.5       Despite these problems, the Philippines has good potential for
economic growth as it is blessed with a strategically attractive geographical



- 2 -
location in the region, a relatively rich natural resource base, and a population
of some 60 million, with over 80% literacy and a majority speaking English as a
second language. However, to gain competitiveness and to achieve faster
industrialization, the Philippines needs to further develop its technological
capabilities. Technological advancement, which represents change in
relationships between product inputs and outputs, improves methods of production
and management, resulting in higher quality praducts at more competitive prices.
Productivity increases associated widh improved technology are estimated to
account for a large proportion of industrial output growth, ranging in recent
years from about 30% in Mexico, 55% iTi the Unit'ed States and Korea, to over 60%
in Japan.
1.6       Although the level of technology in Philippine manufacturing is now on
a rising trend, until the late 1980s it was markedly lower than that of
neighboring countries. Total factor productivity, which represents the portion
of growth traceable to increased efficiency from the use of improved technology,
was -0.1 in the Philippines in the early 1980s, compared with 1.7 in Thailand,
2.1 in Indonesia, and 4.5 in Korea. Measured in terms of incremental capital
output ratios, Philippine industry also experienced chronically high ratios,
indicating higher investment costs per unit of output due to poor engineering,
inefficient operation anc management, and less than optimum use of installed
capacity. In the late 1970s, the average incremental capital output ratio in the
Philippines was about 4, compared to about 3 in Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia and
Thailand. By the early 1980s, the ratios in the latter countries rose to 5 or 6,
while the ratio for the Philippines soared to 36, reflecting capital-intensive
investments and excess capacity during the severe recession of 1983-85.
1.7       Technological development depends on a number of factors.  Industrial
and trade policies promoting fiscal incentives, liberalization of import
restrictions and lowering of tariffs encourage competition and lead entrepreneurs
to acquire more advanced technology. At the sama time, a lack of technological
information and special credit lines or fiscal incentives for research and
development (R&D) discourages technology transfer and its assimilation and
diffusion.   Also important are the existence of a long-term national technology
development plan, appropriate R&D institutions, manpower well qualified in
science and technology (S&T) areas, and support services such as technology
extension and quality standards and testing. Recent!'y, to create an environment
more conducive to technological development, the Philippine Government began to
put in place some of these key requirements.
1.8       Recognizing technology as a key to accelerated industrialization and
also as a complex field cutting across sectors and agencies, the Government
established a Science and Technology Coordinating Council (STCC) under a
Presidential Order in April 1989. The STCC is chaired by the Secretary of
Science and Technology and includes eight Secretaries (i.e., Trade and Industry,
Agriculture, Health, Transportation, Education, Foreign Affairs, Environment and
Natural Resources, National Defense) as well as representatives from private
industry and academe. The Council's mandate is to formulate implementation
strategies for a ten-year technology development plan broadly s:t out in 1988 by
a special presidential task force on science and technology, and to ensure
implementation of those strategies. The long-term plan focuses on upgrading
technology in 15 economic sectors with major potential for increased productivity
and value added (Annex 1). Strategies for the priority sectors are being
developed by subcouncils created for each sector.



-3-
1.9       The ten-year technology development plan calls for: (a) providing
appropriate policies ani incentives to encourage foreign and domestic
investments, export promotion, and technology upgrading; (b) increasing R&D
ex-jenditures by raising the contribution of the private sector; (c) upgrading the
capability of government R&D institutions and linking them more closely to
industry; (d) improving technology support systems by expanding technology
extension, information, testing and other service networks; (e) strengthening S&T
manpower by expanding graduate education and research in priority engineering and
science fields (Annex 1) and stressing experimental aspects of graduate and
undergraduate training; and (f) increasing public awareness of the role of
science and technology in development as well as industry's awareness of the need
to put available technology into productive tse.
1.10      Initial improvements in the policy framework to promote investments
and technology were intti.duced in 1987 under the Omnibus Investment Code
administered by the Board of Investments. The Department of Science and
Technology (DOST), with its mandate to coordinate all technology programs, is
also promoting S&T by, amor;6 other things, introducing an incentive system for
S&T careers and establishing a science center for the public. In addition,
programs now beiag supported by bilateral aid agencies will expand standards and
testing services and improve R&D staff and facilities. In this regard, the
Government has requested World Bank assistance in restructuring selected R&D
institutions, introducing tecnnology financing, particularly for industrial
start-ups, establishing services to improve productivity in selected industries,
and strengthening S&T manpower. The Bank is reviewing these requests under two
projects, one of which, the proposed project, would address the request for S&T
manpower development.
C. S&T Manpower
1.11      The Philippines has an exceptionally large stock of manpower trained
as technicians, engineers and scientists because of its traditionally high
enrollment ratios in tertiary education. In the 1980s it had 34,700 such
manpower per million population, compared to 2,500 in Korea and 1,800 in Malaysia
(Table 1.1). However, in terms of the number of S&T ranpower per million
population engaged in R&D (including university teaching), the Philippines had
160 compared to 1,150 in Kirea and 180 in Malaysia. These comparisons point to
the qualitative and structural weaknesses now surrounding S&T education in the
Philippines, as discussed further in Chapter II.
Table 1.1: S&T MANPOWER STOCK AND R&D MANPOWER
PER MILLION POPULATION
Potential          Actual                     R&D as %
Country               S&T Manpower        R&D Manpower        of S&T Manpower
Korea                 2,540 (1986)        1,147 (1986)               45
Malaysia              1,805 (1982)          182 (1983)               10
Philippines          34,686 (1982)          156 (1982)                0.4
Thailand              1,121 (1984)           55 (1984)                4
Indonesia             1,207 (1986)           58 (1986)                5
Sources:  UNESCO, National Statistical Yearbook and World Bank data.



- 4 -
1.12      The majority of S&T manpower in the Philippines hold bachelor's
degrees or non-degree diplomas and certificates; they are generally weak iti
practical and experimental work ard are not trained to undertake independent
research. This situation is illustrated by the qualifications of staff at the
two major R&D institutes attached to DOST, the Industrial Technology Development
Institute (ITDI) and the Metal Industry Research and Development Center (MIRDC).
Of ITDI's current staff of 594, only 31 (5%) hold master's degrees and 7 (1%)
have doctoral degrees. The staffing situation at MIRDC is even more inadequate,
with only two Ph.D. degree and no master's degree holders in the entire staff of
280 (Annex 2).
1.13      Furthermore, the gap between industry's needs for more skill-intensive
S&T manpower and the capabilities of the current manpower is widening.
Nontraditional export-oriented industries such as electronics, chemicals, food
processing and metal engineering increasingly require people trained in high-
precision measurement technology, use of modern control instrumentation, and
automated production of a wide range of items. The current graduates from
engineering and science colleges are unfamiliar with these new technologies and
consequently require extensive on-the-job training during relatively lengthy
probation periods. According to the Semi-Conductor Electronics Industry
Federation, which has 31 member companies covering 90% of the country's semi-
conductor exports, cowrany training expenses have risen more than three-fold in
the last two years, ana -he average annual salary of engineers during the last
five years has grown faster than that of all other types of personnel in the
industry due to the scarcity of qualified graduates to meet rising demand. Faced
with inadequateiy trained S&T manpower, a recent survey of manufacturing firms in
Metro Manila indicated that employers are willing to pay salaries with an average
premium of 25% to those with appropriate qualifications.
1.14      Also of concern is the acute shortage of qualified manpower in
environmental science and engineering. Recent surveys by the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources and the Marine Science Department of the
University of the Philippines at Diliman (UPD) indicated shortages of manpower
trained in environmental data collection and analysis and in assessment of the
environmental impacts of industrialization and urbanization. A variety of issues
indicate the critical need for these disciplines: coastal fish production is
declining due to increasing destruction of the mangrove forests and coral reefs
where marine fish breed; agricultural productivity has decreased, partly due to
soil erosion following deforestation; and water pollution from improper solid
waste disposal and wastewater treatment has led to ecological damage and pooz
public health conditions. To counter these problems, one of the 15 priority
sectors to be addressed under the technology development plan (para. 1.8) is
environmental control and management.
1.15      In sum, to promote R&D activities for technology upgrading, an
increased number of scientists and engineers with  raduate training in basic and
applied sciences and high technology is needed. Also, well-trained manpower is
required for efficient operation of new technologies in emerging nontraditional
industries and for the impact assessment and management of industrialization on
the environment. For the development of this manpower, both employers and
employees agree that universities must improve laboratory facilities, increase
hands-on practical training, adopt a more problem-solving approach, and create
better links with industry (Annex 3).



-5-
II. ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION
A. Overview of Higher Education
2.1       In 1988, the Bank carried out a study of the Philippine education
sector, including a review of the higher education system (Report No. 7473-PH,
December 1988). As identified by that study, the strengths of the higher
education system are the high ratio of enrollments in the 17-20 age group and the
dominance of the private sector in the system.
2.2       Quantitatively, the Philippine education sector is highly developed.
Virtually all children in the 7-12 age group are enrolled in six years of
elementary schooling, and two thirds of these graduates proceed to secondary
education, which has an enrollment ratio of 68%. At the end of secondary
schooling, about 90% of the students take the National College Entrance
Examinatian, a vehicle to screen entrants to degree programs; thereafter,
approximately one third of the age group population is enrolled in tertiary
education, representing one oif the highest ratios in the world, comparable to
that in the United States, Japan and Korea.
2.3       Females are equally represented throughout the system, and are
slightly more dominant at the tertiary level as they outnumber males by nine to
ot,e in teacher training, which accounts for about 20% of total tertiary
enrollments. The number of female students is increasing in engineering and
science fields, with particular growth in industrial and chemical engineering and
computer science. At the large engineering colleges in Metro Manila, female
students now account for 30% to 70% of enrollments in these fields (Annex 4).
2.4       Of the 1.6 million enrollments in tertiary education, the overwhelming
majority (82%) are in private institutions, which now number some 730 and account
for over 70% of all tertiary institutions. All private schools are legally
incorporated ar.d are of three types--stock (32%), non-stock (48%), and
foundations (20%). Each school's general policies are decided by a Board of
Trustees or its equivalent, which is elected or appointed by stockholders or
members, or, in sectarian institutions, by the bishop or superior of the order or
congregation.  On average, private institutions obtain about 901 of their
revenues from student fees, although non-sectarian schools depend even more on
fees. Students pay an average tuition of about 1,900 pesos per year.
2.5       The remaining 18% of tertiary students are enrolled in over 260 public
institutions, which are of three types--chartered, non-chartered, and local
government-operated. The 80 chartered institutions are state universities and
colleges (SUCs), all individually chartered by law. The highest policy-making
body of each SUC is its Board of Regents, which has the Secretary of Education as
its ex-officio chairman. Overall, however, SUCs operate independently of the
Government's main agency for education, the Department of Education, Culture and
Sports (DECS), not only in academic matters but also in budget preparation,
legislLtior and execution, as they deal directly with the Department of Budget
and Management (DBM) and the Congress. On average, these institutions are
financed about 85% by national budget allocations, 13% by tuition fees and 2% by
commercial operations and other sources.
2.6       Non-chartered institutions are the most numerous (at 183) in the
public education sector, but their overall enrollment at 60,000 (4% of total
tertiary enrollments) is small compared to the chartered institutions at more



- 6 -
than 230,000 enrollments (14% of the total). These schools are often upgraded
from vocational secondary schools and usually carry out programs in teacher
training, vocational arts and trade, and agriculture. They are under the direct
control and supervision of DECS and are funded by national budget allocations to
DECS, receiving about 2%-3% of the DECS budget. Students in non-chartered
institutions pay an average annual tuition of about 300 pesos, while students in
chartered institutions pay about 800 pesos.
2.7       Local government units also operate a few institutions (e.g., the City
University of Manila), which may or may not be created by law.
2.8       In 1988, national government expenditures for education (capital and
recurrent costs) were equivalent to 2.8% of GNP. Of the National Government's
total recurrent expenditures that year, about 20% went to education, of which
60%, 23% and 17% went to elementary, secondary and higher education,
respectively. This distribution of public resources, made possible by the
private sector's major participation in secondary and tertiary education, is
considered efficient and equitable in view of the externalities of elementary
education and the need to create a broad education base.
B. Issues in Engineering and Science Education
2.9       As noted in the Bank's education sector study, the strengths of the
Philippine system of higher education--the high enrollment ratio and the
dominance of the private sector--are paradoxically linked to the system's main
weaknesses, i.e., its poor quality and imbalanced enrollment structure. The
study also found that the attractive private rate of return on higher education
combined with the limited number of places in public tertiary institutions had
led to an excess demand for higher education and the proliferation of private
sector institutions to meet that demand. However, the system is geared more to
quantity than to quality, as individuals are willing to pay for educational
credentials but not for the costly capital inputs, both human (faculty with
graduate education) and physical (library books and laboratory equipment),
associated with educational quality. The reliance on private funding has also
meant that programs which are more expensive and important for their
externalities, such as science education, graduate training and research, are
only minimally provided. In addition to these system-wide weaknesses,
engineering and science education programs suffer from internal inefficiency,
over-regulation, and inadequate incentives and monitoring. The main problems
relating to these issues are as follows.
Enrollment Structure
-    Proliferation of relatively low-cost undergraduate engineering
programs, resulting in an oversupply of engineering graduates.
-    Disproportionately low graduate enrollments, severely limiting the
output of qualified faculty and researchers.
Ouality
-    Failure of current engineering and science education curricula to
adequately reflect the emerging needs of the country's technology
development.



- 7 -
Serious underinvestment in the development of faculty, laboratories
and libraries.
Poor preparation in science and math of students entering engineering
and science education.
Internal Efficiency
-    Inefficiency in the use of faculty and facilities, the retention of
students and the time needed for graduation.
Regulations. Incentives and Honitoring
-    Inflexibility in deciding on academic matters and lack of incentives
for quality improvement.
-    Inflexibility in deciding on financial matters and lack of incentives
for income generation.
-    Lack of consistency in monitoring and enforcement of standards.
Enrollment Structure
2.10      Proliferation of Undergraduate Engineering Education Programs.
Undergraduate engineering education has expanded rapidly, leading to a major
oversupply of graduates and the dilution of efforts to improve quality. In 1990,
there were 184 institutions offeting engineering programs. Enrollments in these
programs accounted for about one fifth of total. enrollments in bachelor's degree
programs, the highest level next to business administracion.  From 1982 to 1989,
the number of engineering graduates doubled from 15,100 to 36,500. In 1989, the
Philippines had 630 engineering graduates per million population, compared with
440 and 320 in Taiwan and Singapore, respectively. According to local
professional engineering associations, only a third of these graduates found
employment as engineers, while another third worked as technicians and the
remainder worked in cther occupations.
2.11      To address this situation, DECS recently directed one of its nine
technical advisory bodies, the Technical Panel of Engineering Education (TPEE),
to prohibit the initiation of new undergraduate engineering programs in private
universities, and DECS efforts are being increased to monitor quality standards
and phase out substandard programs. This has reduced the number of private
engineering institutions from 155 in 1988 to 138 in 1990. During the same
period, however, engineering colleges/departments in SUCs increased from 39 to
46, because TPEE has no mandate to evaluate SUC programs and DECS has only very
limited power over SUCs. This increase was unfortunate in view of the finding of
a 1987 study which indicated that nearly half of all SUC engineering schools
failed to meet TPEE's minimum standards. TPEE's role should therefore be
extended to all engineering institutions, public and private, and substandard
private undergraduate engineering programs should be phased out. As for SUCs
over which DECS has only limited authority, TPEE evaluation results should at
least be made known to the public.
2.12      Low Graduate Enrollments.  In contrast to the high number of
undergraduate enrollments, graduate education in the Philippines is .alatively
undeveloped. Only 2% of tertiary enrollments are in graduate education, compared



- 8 -
with 5% to 10% in many developed countries. In the mid-1980s, the number of
doctorates granted per 100,000 population was 0.35 in the Philippines compared to
16 in the United States and 5 in Japan. The number of graduate students in
scientific fields is particularly small, with only 2% enrolled in mathematics and
natural sciences compared to 39% in business administration and 23% in
engineering. As a result, little S&T research is carried out. It is estimated
that less than 5% of the SUCs' budget was spent on research in 1988, compared
with major universities in industrialized countries which typically devote some
20% of their budgets to R&D.
2.13      The limited development of graduate education in the Philippines is
largely due to the dominance of the private sector in tertiary education (para.
2.9). The private sector has concentrated on undergraduate education, with its
relatively low cost and large private benefits, for which students are willing to
pay. As graduate education and research are costly and their benefits are not
readily captured by individuals, students pursue doctoral degrees if their costs
are subsidized or if a sufficient wage premium is paid later to cover the costs
of education. However, salaries for faculty and researchers are relatively low,
and private benefits are not large enough to cover the costs of graduate
education, at least in the short term. Consequently, pursuit of graduate
education and research has been limited in the Philippines. Increased public
funding in support of these activities is therefore warranted.
Ouality
2.14      Curricula.  DECS prescribes minimum curricular requirements, course
descriptions and curricular structures for universities and colleges, based on
the recommendations of technical panels in nine disciplines, including panels for
engineering and for sciences. The undergraduate curricula for engineering and
for sciences, respectively, require 195 credits in five years and 165 credits in
four years. The structure is, however, excessively biased toward social sciences
and languages, allocating about 25% of the engineering curriculum and sometimes
over 45% of the science curriculum to these areas. This reflects an effort to
compensate for the country's ten-year elementary and secondary school cycle,
which is two years shorter than that in most other countries. Even if private
institutions want to use some of the time allocated to social sciences and
languages for more pertinent subjects, they are unable to do so because of the
DECS requirements. To provide private universities with more flexibility,
increased academic autonomy should be granted.
2.15      Engineering and science programs are not sufficient to fully respond
to the needs of national industrial technology development. For example, there
is no technology management program to develop managerial skills among
engineering and science students and to provide business administration students
with a technological orientation. Such a program is essential to increase the
recognition of the role of technologies and exploitation of technologies
available.
2.16      Furthermore, the engineering curriculum is dominated by courses
related to the design function, although demand. within industry is greater for
production skills focused on manufacturing and quality control engineering. To
bring university education closer to these industry needs, the UP College of
Engineering started an industry linkage program in 1986, with the Philippine
Council for Industry and Energy Research and Development (PCIERD) covering
administrative costs during the program's first year and the firms participating



- 9 -
in this program assuming these costs thereafter. The UP program offers third-
and fourth-year students an elective two-semester training course which includes
integrated company lectures and plant visits under the supervision of company
personnel. In addition, the College of Engineering at De La Salle University
(DLSU) has recently introduced a new degree program in which students spend their
fifth year receiving structured on-the-job training. These linkage programs have
improved the curriculum as well as students' job placements. The linkage
programs should therefore be expanded to other engineering colleges, and PCIERD
start-up assistance should be extended to other colleges.
2.17      The teaching of environmental science also needs improvement.  Sixteen
universities currently offer environmental courses, under the coordination of the
Environmental Education Network of the Philippines with a secretariat located in
the Institute of Environmental Science and Management at the University of the
Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB). Most of the courses are included within regular
science and engineering programs, and a few institutions have developed graduate
programs with a significant environmental emphasis. However, courses on
important subjects such as the coastal environment or the environmental impact of
urban and industrial development (para. 1.14) need improvements. Greater
attentior. to teaching scientific data collection procedures is also needed to
improve baseline data.
2.18      Faculty.  The capacity of engineering and science faculty to teach and
carry out research is often constrained by their lack of adequate educational
qualifications and their heavy workloads (Annex 5). A survey of 19 of the better
quality engineering colleges indicated that a majority of the full-time faculty
had only bachelor's degrees.  The percentages of faculty without graduate degrees
ranged from 61% in chemical engineering, to 77% in mechanical engineering, to 96%
in computer engineering. The educational qualifications of science and math
faculty, however, seemed to be higher; a survey of ten colleges of science
indicated the following percentages of staff had only bachelor's degrees: 12% in
biology, 25% in statibtics, about 40% in mathematics and computer science, and
about 50% in chemistry and physics. Overall, however, major efforts are needed
in faculty upgrading to meet DECS targets which require at least 50% of
engineering faculty and 70% of science faculty to possess graduate degrees.
2.19      The faculty's capacity for effective teaching and R&D is also
constrained by its heavy teaching load, which ranges from 24 to 30 hours a week
for most full-time faculty, as well as high student-faculty ratios, particularly
in engineering. At the 19 engineering colleges mentioned in para. 2.18, the
student-faculty ratios run as high as 53:1 in mechanical engineering, 73:1 in
computer engineering, and 90:1 in industrial engineering. In comparison, at the
10 science colleges surveyed, the student-faculty ratios are acceptable in all
disciplines except biology (with a ratio of 49:1). The teaching load should
therefore be cut back by about 20% to a range of 20 to 25 hours a week to more
closely approach the DECS guideline of 18 to 20 units a week, and student-faculty
ratios in engineering should be lowered to a more acceptable 20:1 to 50:1,
depending on specific fields.
2.20       Laboratories.  The low quality of science and engineering education
and the very limited work on R&D are in part due to three basic deficiencies in
university laboratories: shortages of basic instruments, lack of modern
equipment, and poor operation and maintenance (O&).



- 10 -
(a)  Eauipment Shortages.  DECS, with advice from the technical panels,
establishes minimum equipment standards for adequate training, but
these standards are compromised by funding constraints. In 1989, for
example, the previous (1986) equipment standards for undergraduate
engineering education were revised by reducing the already low
requirements by 20%. Similar guidelines for science education are
considered too high to be met by most science colleges, and lower
standards set by the Philippine Council for Advanced Science and
Technology Research and Development (PCASTRD) are used instead.
(b)  Outmoded Eauipment.  Since the 1960s when major investments were made
to equip laboratories, funding of laboratory equipment has been
insignificant, with the exception of some isolated bilateral
assistance to university laboratories and a 1977 Asian Development
Bank (ADB) project which assisted 20 engineering institutions. Even
in the relatively well established and larger engineering colleges,
the main items of equipment are on average 20 to 25 years old (Annex
6). Research equipment is highly inadequate, particularly to carry
out R&D in emerging technology fields like materials science,
instrumentation and control, and microelectronics, and even equipment
installed under the ADB-assisted project is considered rudimentary
cor.pared to that in more industrialized neighboring countries.
Wichout access to modern equipment, students graduate with no
knowledge of new technologies and their usage.
(c) Poor 0&M. Laboratory O&M is deficient throughout the university
system. This is due to: (i) inadequate budgetary allocations for
laboratory O&M; (ii) the practice of assigning responsibility for
laboratory O&M to inexperienced junior staff with little authority in
decision making; and (iii) the old age of equipment, which requires
more frequent repair, servicing and replacements of spare parts.
The universities, inadequate recognition of the value of laboratories is
reflected in the fact that faculty teaching a three-hour laboratory session are
normally paid for only one unit of work, while pay for a three-hour lecture
session is based on three units of work.
2.21      These weaknesses highlight the critical need to build up university
science and engineering laboratories with basic as well as up-to-date equipment
and to improve laboratory O&M through increased funding and the appointment of
more senior faculty for this purpose. These measures would improve the quality
of instruction, encourage research, and assist the Philippines to approach the
standards of the region's more industrialized countries.
2.22      Libraries.  The main areas of concern regarding current library
services are as follows:
(a)  Inadeguate and Out-of-date Collections: Library collections of books
and journals are inadequate for teaching and research. Even at the
engineering library at UPD, considered the best in the country in this
subject, book and nonbook holdings represent only 47% of the number
recommended by Philippine Library Standards, while current journal
holdings are only 14% of recommended standards. The situation is even
worse if the age of books is considered: only an estimated 20% of the
engineering books at the UPD library have copyright dates after 1975.



- 11 -
Funding for subscriptions to technical journals is also unpredictable
and irregular, creating large gaps in collections;
(b) Outdated Procedures and Practices: There is no central facility for
procurement of library materials, resulting in inefficient small-scale
and uncoordinated procurement practices. Operating procedures such as
opening hours, access to networking facilities and lending policies,
also limit the effectiveness of the services provided; and
(c) Inadeguate Facilities. EauiRment and Staff: Severe physical and
technical constraints limit the volume of materials housed, the
provision of adequate reading space, and the services needed to keep
up with new information. Librarians are also inadequately trained in
information services and library system management.
To support teaching and research, improvements are needed in library collections,
service procedures -nd practices, physical facilities, equipment and staff
capabilities.
2.23      Preparedness in Science and Math.  Due to poor science and math
teaching in secondary schools, engineering and science students are ill-prepared
for university courses. This poor preparation is a major cause of a dropout rate
as high as 40% among first and second year students. In national tests
administered by DECS in the mid-1980s, the achievement of secondary students in a
range of subjects was poorest in science. Student performance is also poor when
compared internationally. In a recent science test given to a sample of 14 year
old students by the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational
Achievement, Filipino students correctly answered an average of 11.5 questions
out of 30, compared to 16.5 for students in Thailand and Singapore, 18.1 for
students in Korea and 20.2 for those in Japan. The Bank's sector study
attributed the students, weak achievement to the absence of adequate science
laboratories and, more important, to poor teacher performance, because most
teachers, especially of physics, were not originally trained in the subject they
teach. Thus, development of university engineering and science education will
depend largely on raising high school student achievement levels in science and
math by upgrading teachers, subject competency and laboratory facilities.
Internal Efficiency
2.24      Low graduation rates among both undergraduate and graduate students
contribute to the wasteful use of scarce resources. Only about 30% of first-year
students in engineering and sciences actually graduate, with most dropouts
occurring in the first two years due to failures in math and science
examinations, especially physics (para. 2.23). These students either transfer to
other disciplines or leave the universities entirely. The failures are clearly
linked to the students' weak high school training in these essential fields
combined with low university faculty competence (para. 2.18).
2.25      Graduation rates in master's and doctoral programs are also low.
During 1986-89, only 10% of students enrolled in engineering master's programs
graduated; theoretically, 30%-50% should have graduated from these three- and
two-year programs. The factors contributing to this very poor performance are:
(a) the part-time status of many students, who often also teach at local colleges
and have limited time to study; (b) entry-level salaries in industry which fail



- 12 -
to compensate for the cost of a completed graduate degree; (c) a lack of research
laboratories; and (d) an overemphasis on the thesis in the engineering graduate
program, which unnecessarily prolongs the time needed to complete the program to
as much as four years. It is therefore recommended that: the number of full-time
graduate students be increased through a faculty scholarship program; industry
introduce more attractive remuneration in recruiting engineers and sc.entists
with graduate degrees; the networking of institutions be supported to encourage
consortium arrangements and thus to make facilities more widely available; and
the thesis for an engineering master's degree be replaced by a field project
associated with industry problem-solving, process planning, or incubator
projects.
Regulations. Incentives and Monitoring
j        2.26       Academic Matters.  To maintain minimum quality standatds in the
growing number of private institutions, the Government in the 1970s introduced
numerous regulations. These governed class size (not to be larger than 50) and
time period (a class period to last 60 minutes), frequency of textbook changes
(not to be changed more than once every six years), curricular changes (to
require prior government approval), etc. While these regulations were largely
not enforced, they could potentially have hampered the responsiveness of the
system to changing needs. In 1989, the Government recognized the existing
situation by issuing revised regulations on private education, relaxing many of
previous ones, with the important exception of curricular changes which still
require DECS approval (para. 2.14). Private universities are allowed to make
changes only in electives, which account for only 10% of a curriculum. Chartered
state universities and colleges enjoy curricular autonomy. Granting of
curricular autonomy to private universities requires congressional approval. In
1990 a bill was filed by three Senators to introduce an act that would provide
equality in curricular autonomy for private higher education institutions. It is
pending in the Senate.
2.27      Recer.tly, to replace external regulation with self-regulation,
universities and colleges have been given incentives to regulate themselves
through four accreditation associations. As they meet increasingly stringent
requirements (four levels) set out by the associations, they are granted
administrative, financial and academic autonomy, and finally subsidies when they
reach the highest (fourth) level. Two major issues remain, however. The first
is the consistency of criteria and standards among the four accreditation
associations. The other is the lack of incentives offered to private
institutions since the Govern.gent cannot provide them with flexibility in
curricular changes, subsidies or tuition deregulation. A comprehensive study is
therefore needed to review problems in the existing accreditation systems and to
recommend alternative approaches, with associated plans of action.
2.28      Besides accreditation, which is voluntary, educational quality is
overseen by nine technical panels created to advise the Secretary of Education on
the major disciplines. Each panel consists of school and industry
representatives who, with the assistance of local experts, set out quality
standards for degree programs, monitor their implementation and submit
recommendations to the Secretary of Education. The Technical Panel for
Engineering Education (TPEE) is one of the older panels and has well-defined
monitoring standards. In contrast, the Technical Panel for Science (TPS) was
created only in 1990 from a subpanel under the Technical Panel for Arts and



- 13 -
Science. TPS now needs to develop its memhb'rship and formulate standards
appropriate for science education in the Philippines.
2.29      Financial Matters.  SUCs have no incentive to internally generate
income. SUC income from fees, charges, etc. goes to the national treasury for
rebudgeting as general appropriations (Annex 7). The University of the
Philippines (UP) is, however, allowed to retain its income, except that derived
from the sale of products. Income retention is also applied internally at UP;
each college and department can retain the fees collected, including laboratory
fees, for academic activities. This provides the colleges and departments with
an incentive to raise fees as a means of augmenting normal budget allocations.
It is recommended that all engineering and science colleges be allowed to retain
income in the manner now practiced by UP in order to finance their high-cost
programs.
2.30      Private universities are almost entirely funded by student fees, but
government-imposed requirements make it difficult for them to increase fees.
Under a 1989 law (Government Assistance to Students and Teachers in Private
Education), fee increases require consultations with student governments or
councils, alumni and faculty associations. Consultation has been interpreted by
some student groups to mean consent, resulting in prolonged negotiations and
often in student strikes and other class disruptions. The Government then
intervenes to set a ceiling on fee increases for the next year. If private
universities are to improve their quality, limits on fee increases should not be
applied to special development fees earmarked for faculty, libraries,
laboratories and other capital investments.
C. Strategy for S&T Manpower Development
Government Strategy and Programs
2.31      In support of the Government's plan to develop technology for
industrialization of the economy (para. 1.8), the Science and Technology
Coordinating Council (STCC) has prepared a plan for S&T manpower development. The
S&T manpower plan aims at development of university education and research by
improving faculty and facilities, providing research grants, and linking the
universities with R&D institutes and industry. Emphasis will be given to basic
sciences and mathematics as well as the specialized science fields of materials
science, computer sciences, biotechnology, and pharmacology. Priorities in
engineering are computer engineering/electronics and communication engineering,
chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, materials engineering, electrical
engineering, instrumentation and control, and industrial engineering (Annex 1).
The plan also calls for the strengthening of environmental studies and t'e
introduction of graduate programs in technology management to help promoce an
understanding of technological innovations and their influence on the economy and
human life, and to provide skills to effectively manage such innovations. DOST
will be responsible for coordinating efforts to develop high-level S&T manpower
since the Secretary of DOST is Chairman of STCC, which has overall responsibility
for coordinating and monitoring all aspects of technology development.
2.32      The plan supports a "flagship" approach to university development.
This is a selective approach which targets development assistance to qualified
institutions, public or private, to create a network of flagship and other
leading institutions. Flagship universities will conduct instructional programs
up to the Ph.D. level and engage in scientific research, whereas other network



- 14 -
institutions will concentrate mainly on undergraduate programs and involve
themselves in applied research and extension needed in the regions. Flagship
universities will provide leadership and assistance to other institutions in the
network. The plan also calls for the phasing out of substandard undergraduate
engineering programs, which have proliferated since the mid-1970s.
2.33      The Government also plans to improve secondary school-level science
and mathematics to help prepare students for careers in S&T areas, and also to
strengthen vocational and technical education to provide the skilled manpower
needed for industrialization.
2.34      The Government is concerned not only with manpower production but also
with its effective deployment. A recently-introduced S&T career system,
beginning first in DOST, provides higher salaries to scientists and engineers,
without requiring them to assume administrative positions. A modest scheme has
also been introduced to attract expatriate scientists and engineers with fiscal
incentives.
2.35      Implementation of the S&T manpower development program would be
supported under the proposed project, using an integrated approach. This would
be a change from the ad hoc assistance previously provided by bilateral sources
to science and engineering education in the Philippines. This assistance
included: aid to Don Bosco Technological College from the Government of Italy in
developing computer science and engineering programs with computerized,
numerically controlled (CNC) and computer-aided design (CAD) systems; United
Nations Development Program support in modernizing the microprocessor control
instrumentation laboratory at Rizal Technological College; and Japan
International Cooperation Agency assistance to the Technological University of
the Philippines for modern instructional equipment and to the University of
Ateneo de Manila in building its Chemistry Institute. An exception to this
individual assistance was the ADB-assisted engineering education project (1977-
84), which helped improve 20 engineering colleges in undergraduate education in
civil, mechanical, chemical and electrical engineering (para. 2.20).
Bank Experience and Strategy
2.36      Since 1965, the Bank has provided financing of US$432 million for nine
education projects in the Philippines. The thrust of four of these projects was
to provide basic knowledge and skills through support for textbooks (Ln. 1224T-
PH, 1976), educational radio (Ln. S008-PH, 1978), and comprehe..sive development
of elementary education including curricular revision, instructional materials,
in-service teacher training, classrooms and equipment (Ln. 2030-PH, 1981; Ln.
3244-PH, 1990). The thrust of the remaining five projects was to develop
technical and vocational manpower in specialized fields through support to
education and training in agriculture (Ln. 392-PH, 1964; Cr. 349-PH, 1972; Ln.
1374-PH, 1977), fisheries (Ln. 1786-PH, 1979), and industrial skills (Cr. 349-PH,
1972; Ln. 2200-PH, 1982).
2.37      Except for the eighth and ninth projects, all have been completed.
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared on the first six
projects (SecM75-560, SecM82-898, SecM84-283, SecM86-781, SecM86-885, SecM90-850)
and a Project Completion Report was recently prepared for the seventh project
aimed at improving elementary education. The main issues identified by these
reports were delays in implementation and disbursement due to protracted
procurement processes and complex budget release and payment procedures. These



- 15 -
problems are being addressed as general country-wide issues by the Government and
the Bank, and will be considered in the Bank's 1992 Country Economic Memorandum
which will focus, inter alia, on process and procedural issues related to
investment planning and implementation. In addition, the PPARs point out the
critical importance of preparing for procurement of project inputs prior to
implementation and the need to avoid, or minimize the impact of, changes in the
project management structure and key personnel during implementation.
2.38      Of particular relevance to the proposed project are lessons learned
under the Fourth (Agricultural) Education Project (Tn. 1374-PH) and the Fishery
Training Project (Ln. 1786-PH), as they shared the proposed project's objective
of improving the quality 3f tertiary education in their respective fields. The
Fourth Education Project (closed end-1983) aimed to increase the supply of well-
qualified agriculture manpower by improving the quality of agricuitural education
and training. For this purpose, the project supported establishment and
strengthening of three new institutions--the Technical Panel for Agricultural
Education (TPAE), the Visayas State College of Agriculture (VSCA) and the
Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development--as well as improvement of the
quality of academic staff and teaching/research facilities at UPLB in forestry,
animal sciences and veterinary medicine. The PPAR (SecM86-781, 1986) concluded
that the project achieved its major objective of building UPLB and VSCA into
strong institutions. However, the Report notes that while TPAE was established
and produced guidelines for maintaining educational standards and regulating the
proliferation of agricultural institutions, the standards are not being enforced
because TPAE acts only as a consultative and advisory body to DECS. Other
lessons were that: (a) end-users of laboratory equipment should be involved in
defining equipment needs and in testing delivered equipment; (b) adequate
installation space, access to spare parts and follow-up service should be assured
before ordering equipment; and (c) accounting and auditing of project funds
should be carefully monitored to avoid discrepancies in project costs which arose
under this project.
2.39      The Fishery Training Project (closed end-1987) was designed to (a)
support the Government's sector development strategy by strengthening fishery
training and research capacity in selected areas, and (b) help rationalize and
upgrade the existing fishery training and research system, with the UP College of
Fisheries as the apex institution supervising seven regional institutes of
fishery technology and training centers. The PPAR for the project (SecM90-850,
1990) found mixed results. Facilities were built and installed, curricula
developed, and the institutional framework was improved, but the institutions
were underutilized, enrollments were short of expectations, and course preference
and research were skewed toward inland rather than, as anticipated, marine
fishery. The Report points out that the latter results were chiefly attributable
to lower than anticipated development of the fisheries sector, especially
commercial fishing, constraints in fishery extension, and the lack of firm
linkages between the training institutions and the employers or end-users. It
also notes that in the absence of political will, Bank involvement has little
impact on slowing the proliferation of substandard institutions and programs.
2.40      Also relevant to the proposed project is the experience of the ADB-
assisted Engineering Education Project (Ln. 306-PH, 1977), for which a project
audit report was prepared in 1987, two years after loan closing. The project
assisted one state and 19 private engineering colleges to upgrade their programs
in civil, mechanical, chemical and electrical engineering, with the loan proceeds
on-lent to the private institutions. Three main lessons are noted. First, the



- 16 -
selection of participating institutions should take into account their
capabilities to use investment funds effectively by examining their qualitative
standards and management commitment. Second, similar to the lesson under the
Bank's agricultural project (para. 2.38), lists of equipment to be provided under
a project should be prepared in line with the curricula being offered and with
close participation of the faculty responsible for laboratory courses to avoid
procuring unrelated or inoperable equipment. Third, if funds are on-lent to
private universities, the loans should be subsidized and made in the local
currency to avoid the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations. Since student
fees are subject to government-imposed ceilings, private institutions are unable
to meet cash flow requirements far exceeding original expectations.
2.41      The proposed project has been designed in the light of the above
experience gained and lessons learned.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.42      In support of its technology development plan, the Philippine
Government requested Bank assistance in improving the technological capabilities
of local industries and in increasing the supply of S&T manpower for both
industry and academe. The Government's goal in upgrading technology, i.e., to
increase economic efficiency and productivity, is also the chief objective of the
Bank's own country assistance strategy. The Bank has therefore responded to the
government request through the proposed project as well as an industrial
technology development project now being prepared to assist specific
manufacturing industries. The proposed project would also allow the Bank to
continue its dialogue with the Government on major policy issues in higher
education, which were identified in the Bank's 1988 education sector report, and
to assist the Government in selecting appropriate measures to address those
issues.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
3.1       The overall objective of the project is to support technology
development for industrialization in the Philippines by increasing the supply of
well-trained science and technology (S&T) manpower. Toward this objective, the
project would strengthen engineering and science education in priority fields for
selected economic sectors (paras. 1.8-1.9).
3.2       To address the main issues in engineering and science education as
described in Chapter II, the project's specific objectives are to:
(a)  Improve the institutional mechanisms and criteria for funding, and
monitoring the quality of, engineering and science education;
(b)  Strengthen engineering and science education in priority fields at
selected institutions by:
-    adjusting the enrollment structure to respond to S&T manpower
needs;



- 17 -
improving the curricula through the expansion of university-
industry linkages, strengthening of environmental education and
introduction of technology management programs;
upgrading educational quality through improvements in faculty,
laboratories and libraries; and
strengthening financial and resource management by improving
institutional capacities for income generation, resource
utilization, and laboratory operation and maintenance;
(c) Improve science and math education at selected secondary schools and
the capacity of selected teacher training institutions to provide in-
service teacher training in these subjects; and
(d) Strengthen DOST's capacity to plan and coordinate S&T manpower
development programs.
3.3       To address these objectives, the project would have a policy action
plan and six investment components:
(a) Policy Action Plan. The Plan would cover (i) the preparation and
application of criteria or directives to improve the institutional
framework for funding and monitoring engineering and science
education, and (ii) the establishment and attainment of targets and
actions to improve the enrollment structure as well as financial and
resource management of selected project institutions;
(b) Engineering Education. Funds would be provided for faculty
development, expert services, initial operational costs for
university-industry linkages, laboratory equipment, and renovation and
expansion of laboratory buildings to improve undergraduate and
graduate programs in priority fields at five public and 14 private
colleges of engineering. The project would also finance scholarships
to upgrade the quality of engineers in industry and R&D institutions
and encourage new graduates to pursue further training at the
project's engineering colleges offering graduate programs;
(c)  Science Education and Research.  Funds would be provided for faculty
development, expert services, laboratory equipment, and renovation and
expansion of laboratory buildings (i) to strengthen undergraduate and
graduate education in priority fields, including environmental
educationt, at four public and six private colleges of science, and
(ii) to develop research capacities in two leading universities. As
in engineering education, the project would finance scholarships to
scientists in industry and R&D institutions and new graduates to
receive further training at the project's science colleges offeitng
graduate degrees;
(d) Management of Technology. To help bridge the gap between technology
and its utilization, funding would be provided for faculty
development, expert services, books and journals for the colleges of
engineering, science and business administration at three
universities. These inputs would help introduce courses as a major in



- 18 -
management of technology (MOT) in the master's program in business
administration, as well as short courses aimed at government and
industry personnel;
(e) Library Networks. Staff training, books, journals, equipment, and
renovation and expansion of library facilities would be provided to
strengthen lib.aries at three engineering and seven science colleges
and to develop a system of networking among these libraries;
(f) Secondary School Science and Math/In-service Teacher Training. Funds
would be provided for teacher upgrading, books, laboratory equipment,
and renovation and expansion of laboratory facilities at 110 secondary
schools and 22 teacher training institutions responsible for in-
service teacher training; and
(g)  5&T Manpower Planning and Monitoring.  Staff training, expert services
and equipment would be provided to strengthen the roles of DOST, TPEE
and TPS in S&T manpower planning, coordination, and monitoring and
evaluation.
B. Detailed Proiect Description
Policy Action Plan
3.4       The Plan has two parts.  The first aims at improving the institutional
framework for overall engineering and science education and would include the
following actions:
(a) DOST in consultation with DECS would establish and utilize criteria to
identify flagship and other leading institutions to create a
collaborative network as well as programs eligible for funding under
the project;
(b) DOST in consultation with DECS would specify the collaborative roles
of flagship and other network institutions in teaching and research in
priority S&T fields;
(c) DECS would issue a directive requiring TPEE to monitor engineering
programs in both public and private institutions and, if recommended
by TPEE, would phase out substandard degree programs in private
institutions or convert them to non-degree programs;
(d) DECS would issue a directive activating the Technical Panel for
Science (TPS) along with a plan of action; and
(e) DECS would carry out a study to review the standards, incentives and
organizational set-up of existing accreditation systems, identify key
issues, and recommend solutions to those issues.
In conjunction with this part of the Action Plan, the project would finance four
three-month scholarships to strengthen TPEE and TPS of DECS, and 24 months of
local and six months of foreign expert services for the study of accreditation.



- 19 -
3.5       DOST, in consultation with DECS, has already prepared criteria
satisfactory to the Bank for selecting engineering and science institutions and
programs eligible for project funding as well as the roles of flagship and other
institutions. The criteria stress: instructional quality in priority fields and
geographical dispersion for identifying institutions in the network, and graduate
education and research quality for identifying flagship institutions (Annex 8).
Based on these criteria, DOST has selected 19 out of over 180 engineering
colleges as qualified for funding (Annex 9). Three of the 19 schools would be
developed as flagship institutions where master's degree programs would be
strengthened, and faculty from the other 16 institutions would receive additional
training. In science education, DOST has selected 10 institutions out of 37 for
funding (Annex 9). Doctoral programs would be developed at four of these
colleges, and master's programs at six. The engineering and science institutions
selected for support under the project have developed program proposals prepared
and justified within the context of five-year institutional development plans,
covering programs, enrollments, staff, physical facilities, and financial and
resource management. The Government has also taken initiatives on other actions
by issuing DECS directives authorizing its TPEE to evaluate and monitor
undergraduate engineering programs at state universities and TPS to review the
undergraduate science curriculum and establish minimum quality standards, and by
preparing terms of reference for the study of accreditation arrangements.
3.6       The second part of the Action Plan would improve financial and
resource management, including laboratory operation and maintenance, of project
institutions through the following actions:
(a)  A Memorandum of Agreement would be signed between DOST and each
project university stating university arrangements for adjusting the
enrollment structure as required, lowering student-faculty ratios,
reducing teaching loads, reducing the number of years needed to
graduate, improving laboratory operation and maintenance, and
increasing linkages with industry;
(b)  DECS would issue a directive allowing project universities to (i)
charge a special laboratory development fee to cover the costs of
capital investments, and (ii) count one laboratory session of three
hours as two units, rather than the current one unit, for the purpose
of charging a laboratory tuition fee and paying equipment maintenance
and salaries of faculty responsible for laboratory courses;
(c)  Each project university would create a Science and Engineering
Laboratory Fund (SELF), out of the proceeds from special laboratory
development and tuition fees, to help upgrade, operate and maintain
laboratories, and cover salary increments for the faculty teaching
laboratory courses; and
(d)  DOST would conduct a study to review the expected repair, servicing
and spare parts requirements of project laboratories, examine the
availability of technicians and maintenance and repair shops to meet
these needs, and recommend improved arrangements to respond to the
needs. The project would finance 14 monchs of local expert services
for the study.
3.7       The Government has already produced the signed Memorandum of Agreement
between DOST and each project institution and agreed that its modifications would



- 20 -
be made in consultation with the Bank. Terms of reference for the study on
laboratory O&M satisfactory to the Bank h ve also been prepared. Further,
agreements have been reached between the Government and the Bank that: (a) the
issuance of a DECS order allowing the project private universities to charge the
special laboratory development fee anid the special laboratory tuition fee based
on one laboratory session as two units would be a condition of effectiveness; (b)
by December 31, 1992, the project state universities would obtain approval for
the same from the respective Boards of Regents; and (c) by December 31, 1992, a
SELF would be established out of the proceeds from these fees in each project
university.
3.8       In view of various policy initiatives sought under the project, the
involvement of DECS, which is responsible for educational policy formulation and
supervision, would be essential. To assure effective collaboration between DOST
and DECS throughout project development and execution, a Memorandum of Agreement
acceptable to the Bank has been signed between the Secretaries of these two
Departments.
Engineering Education (US$46.5 million equivalent including contingencies)
3.9       The project would support 19 selected engineering colleges, three of
which--colleges of engineering at the University of the Philippines at Diliman
(UPD), De La Salle University (DLSU) and the University of San Carlos (USC)--
would be developed into flagship engineering institutions. The other 16 would be
developed into leading institutions in the National Capital Region (NCR) and
Regions I, IV, VI, VII, X, XI and XII. Development of these institutions would
be complemented by support for establishment of a university-industry linkage
program (para. 2.16), with the project financing the first year's administrative
costs.
3.10      The engineering colleges to be assisted under the project curr'ntly
have about 250 graduate and 26,200 undergraduate students in priority fields,
i.e., computer engineering (as part of electronics and communications
engineering), electrical engineering (with focus on instrumentation and control),
materials engineering, chemical engineering (with focus on process engineering),
mechanicakl engineering (with focus on design and manufacturing), and industrial
engineering (AnrLex 5). The students in priority fields account for about 40% of
the schools, total engineering enrollments or 30% of all degree engineering
enrollments in the country. Under the project, enrollments in the priority
fields are expected to rise by nearly 20%, while overall engineering enrollments
would remain unchanged as the increase would be offset by the current decline in
enrollments in civil engineering and geodetic engineering, which have expanded
most rapidly and suffer from a serious oversupply of graduates. Also in the
priority fields, the share of graduate enrollments would rise from the current 1%
of total undergraduate enrollments to 2-3% of the projected undergraduate
enrollments of 34,000 by 1996/97.
3.11      The 19 project institutions currently have 450 full-time and 170 part-
time faculty (full-time equivalent of about 530), of which about 30% of full-time
and 20% of part-time faculty have graduate degrees. To help bring the percentage
of faculty with graduate degrees to about 60% by 1996/97, when a total of 700
faculty are projected, the project would finance scholarships for local and
foreign master's and doctoral degrees (Annex 10). These scholarships would be
awarded to faculty who are already teaching or will be teaching at the 19
institutions, according to terms and conditions being applied by DOST's PCIERD in



- 21 -
administering its ongoing grant-in-aid program funded from DOST's regular budget.
Terms and conditions for the scholarships have been reviewed and agreed with the
Bank (Annex 11). In addition, the project would support in-country, three-month
upgrading training and 36 man-months of foreign expert services to improN- the
curricula and teaching (Annex 10). Terms of reference and the appointment
schedule of all expert services to be obtained under the project have been
prepared and are acceptable to the Bank.
3.12      The project would equip the schools, laboratories with three levels of
engineering instrumentation. Laboratories of the three flagship institutions
would be brought up to standards prevailing in the more industrialized countries
in the region, thus enabling them to conduct improved and expanded graduate and
research programs. The undergraduate laboratories at all 19 institutions would
receive DECS/TPEE-recommended intermediate-level equipment, which is above the
minimum-level and closer to the standard in more advanced neighboring countries.
In addition, the project would upgrade the laboratories of project institutions
to DECS/TPEE minimum standards needed to support priority fields. While the
Government, through DOST, would provide graduate and intermediate-level equipment
without charge, it would be the responsibility of individual project universities
to bring needed laboratories to the minimum standards.  The Government has
assured the Bank that all project universities, state and private, would meet the
minimum standards by May 31, 1993.
3.13      Further, the project would set up funds for local master's and
doctoral scholarships to upgrade the quality of engineers in industry and R&D
institutions and to encourage outstanding new gradu-tes to pursue further
training (Annex 10). The scholarships would be awa led according to the
eligibility criteria, award conditions and selection processes agreeable to the
Bank.
Science Education and Research (US$48.8 million equivalent with contingencies)
3.14      Ten colleges of science, including three within the University of the
Philippines (UP) system, have been selected for project support in accordance
with agreed criteria. Five of the schools are in NCR, two in Region VII, and one
each in Regions IV, X and XII. Doctoral programs would be strengthened at four
of the colleges. Programs in chemistry, physics and math would continue to be
developed based on the consortium arrangement among UPD, DLSU and Ateneo de
Manila University. Master's programs would be strengthened at six of the ten
colleges.
3.15      The selected institutions enroll 1,350 and 9,740 students in graduate
and undergraduate programs, respectively. They account for nearly all graduate
and 40% of undergraduate enrollments in science in the country. By 1996/97,
undergraduate enrollments would increase by about 30% (to 12,500) and graduate
enrollments would double (to 2,800). The percentages of students in computer
science, physics and earth science would rise significantly from 17% to 26%, 4%
to 7%, and 0.5% to 1.0%, respectively, while the share in biology would decrease
from 45% to 34%.
3.16      The ten project colleges have 810 full-time and 190 part-time faculty
(about 900 full-time equivalent). On average, 50% of the faculty have graduate
degrees, with biology faculty having the highest percentage at 88%. By 1996/97,
there would be about 950 full-time equivalent faculty. To help meet the target
of 70% of faculty with graduate degrees by 1996/97, the project would finance



- 22 -
local and foreign scholarships for master's and doctoral degrees, and local and
foreign fellowships for one-year as well as two-month research and training to
help update knowledge and skills of faculty and laboratory technicians (Annex
10). The scholarships and fellowships would be administered following procedures
used by DOST's Philippine Council for Advanced Science and Technology Research
and Development (PCARTRD) in managing its grant-in-aid program for staff training
and research activities. Its terms and conditions have been reviewed and found
satisfactory by the Bank (Annex 11). Ten man-months of foreign expert services
would also be supported under the project to help improve the quality of
instruction and research.
3.17      The project would finance two types of scientific equipment: equipment
for laboratories for basically instructional purposes; and equipment for inter-
university shared facilities for graduate and research work. Equipment for
shared facilities would be installed in the National Chemical Instrumentation
Center at Ateneo de Manila University for chemical characterization and
identification, the Materials Science Facility Center at UPD for quantum
functional devices such as laser diodes and high electron mobility transistors,
and the Microelectronic Facility Center also at UPD for the design, fabrication,
verification and testing of integrated circuits. The shared facilities would be
used for inter-university research and training, and for services for industry
and government. Understandings between the Government and the Bank have been
reached that the final composition of sophisticated research equipment and its
procurement timing would be determined by DOST with technical inputs of a Project
Advisory Group to be set up (paras. 4.9, 4.10), taking into account that the need
of researchers would be met and no equipment would be underutilized.
3.18      To improve the quality of scientists in industry and R&D institutions
and to encourage outstanding new science graduates to pursue further training,
the project would provide local master's and doctoral scholarships (Annex 10),
according to the eligibility criteria, award conditions and selection processes
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.19      Graduate programs in environment studies would be supported at the
Departments of Chemistry, Biology and Chemical Engineering in the Colleges of
Science and Engineering of UPD, the Departments of Chemistry and Biology in
UPLB's College of Science, and the Department of Chemical Engineering in DLSU's
College of Engineering.  The programs would entail 15 units o: core courses, at
least nine units of environment-related courses, and preparation of a related
thesis. The project would finance scholarships for local and foreign doctoral
and master's degrees for faculty development, 12 man-months of foreign expert
services for program improvement (Annex 10), and equipment for improved
laboratory practices.
Management of Technology (US$1.2 million equivalent including contingencies)
3.20      The project would introduce graduate-level and short-term courses in
management of technology (MOT). The graduate courses would be introduced as a
major in MOT within the master's program in business administration (MBA) offered
at UPD, DLSU and the Asian Institute of Management (AIM). The MOT program would
introduce MBA candidates, about 40% to 45% of whom have engineering and science
degrees, to the use of technology as a tool for innovation, productivity and
profitability. Each institution would focus on different specializations within
MOT (Annex 12).



-23 -
3.21      The three institutions would also develop short courses (one to four
weeks), targeted to S&T policy makers in DOST and other relevant government
agencies, managers of public and private R&D institutes, and entrepreneurs in
business and industry. The courses would be aimed at developing an understanding
of such topics as the implications of technology development, processes involved
in technology transfer and diffusion, marketable technologies, funding,
utilization, maintenance and further development. A fee would be charged to
participants in the short courses.
3.22      The project would fund foreign scholarships for master's and doctoral
degrees to develop faculty trained in this new field of MOT, and three-month
foreign training and 18 man-months of foreign expert services to assist with
program development and faculty upgrading (Annex 10). The project would also
finance development of case studies, instructional materials, and books and
journals. This component would be coordinated by DOST's Technology Application
and Promotion Institute (TAPI).
Library Networks (US$12.9 million equivalent including contingencies)
3.23      To support improved teaching and research in engineering and science,
the project would expand the reference book and journal collections as well as
the services of the leading national institutions responsible for faculty
development under the project, i.e., seven colleges of science and three colleges
of engineering, and a networking system would be established among the libraries.
Lists of required books and journals would be submitted by the faculty of these
institutions and reviewed by a library implementation advisory group attached to
PCASTRD. Each library would be allowed to acquire up to 100 books per discipline
(Annex 13). For serials selected for advanced graduate and research work, one
copy of each title and up to 50 titles per discipline would be procured, with all
titles held at the Colleges of Science and Engineering at UPD, except for
biotechnology to be held at UPLB.
3.24      The project would also develop library networking to provide all
members of the participating institutions with access to the expanded
collections. A central data base of all materials in the selected libraries would
be created, and an integrated library management system would be installed for
such functions as cataloguing, acquisitions, circulation control and an online
public access catalog. Besides software for the integrated system, the project
would finance necessary cabling and equipment for local area networking (LAN).
The University of San Carlos would be included in the network as a demonstrator
to link libraries beyond the selected institutions in the Manila area.
3.25      To train staff in information science and the application of
information technology, the project would finance foreign master's degree
scholarships and local and foreign four-month scholarships, according to agreed
terms and conditions, and 14 man-months of local and 8 man-months of foreign
expert services (Annex 10). The Government would appoint a systems librarian and
LAN administrators for each project library, according to terms to be agreed with
the Bank. Members of the participating institutions would have access to the
collections without undue restrictions and formality.
Science and Math in Secondar: Schools and In-service Teacher Training (US$19.1
million equivalent including contingencies)



- 24 -
3.26      Science and Math in Secondary Schools.  The project would improve
instruction of science (physics, chemistry and biology) and math subjects in
selected public schools through the establishment of special honor classes and
the provision of in-service teacher training, library books, laboratory
equipment, and renovation and expansion of laboratory facilities. From among
DECS regional leader high schools, 110 schools have been selected based on their
relatively higher capabilities to deliver science and math courses, their access
to teacher training institutions and the commitment of school heads to improve
these courses (Annex 14). The selected schools have large enrollments, varying
from about 1,000 to over 8,000 per school, and an estimated 3,500 science and
math teachers. The project would finance certificate scholarships which would be
completed in either two summers of full-time instruction or three semesters of
Saturday-only instruction (Annex 10). There would be two types of programs, one
geared to teachers with bachelor's degrees in the subject they teach and one for
teac.iers with degrees in other subjects; however, the content of both programs
would be concentrated on the subject areas. DOST has prepared target and
monitoring indicators to measure the impact of science and math enrichment
courses introduced in 110 high schools. An understanding has also been made with
the Government that DOST would collect related base data by August 31, 1992.
3.27      In-Service Teacher Training.  To improve in-service training of
science and math teachers from the selected high schools, the project would
strengthen the capability of 12 Regional Science Teaching Centers (RSTCs) and 10
nearby teacher training colleges which would supplement the training capacity
available in the RSTCs. RSTCs are already carrying out in-service training
programs in science and math under the sponsorship of DOST's Science Education
Institute (SEI). The RSTCs and the teacher training colleges would not only
provide training, but would also assist and monitor the installation and
operation of laboratory equipment provided to high schools under the project and
the overall implementation of special science and math classes to be established.
To further improve the institutions in these functions, the project would finance
faculty scholarships for master's of arts in teaching (MAT) science and math
(Annex 10). The project would also support the upgrading of laboratory equipment
and facilities. DOST has prepared satisfactory design plans and equipment
requirements for each high school and teacher training institution, together with
estimated costs and an implementation plan.
S&T Manpower Planning and Monitoring (US$2.3 million equivalent including
contingencies)
3.28      The project would strengthen DOST's management information system
(MIS) to improve its planning and administration of S&T manpower and R&D
development programs. Initial development of the MIS under the project would
focus on S&T manpower development. The project would assist in setting up data
bases on the profiles of academic institutions relating to: (a) enrollments; (b)
faculty; (c) programs offered; (d) finance; (e) major R&D undertakings; and (f)
employment status of graduates. The project would provide the necessary computer
hardware and software, and 12 man-months of local and 10 man-months of foreign
expert services (Annex 10). A further three months of in-country training would
be provided to DOST staff in data analysis and use of information for planning
and evaluation of programs. In addition, the project would help DOST administer
the proposed project through support to related project monitoring, periodic
implementation review workshops, and hiring of expert services for project
management.



- 25 -
IV.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
4.1            The total cost of the project is estimated at Peso 4,237.4 million
(US$130.7 million equivalent), including foreign exchange costs of about US$69.9
million and taxes and duties estimated at about US$13.8 million. Tables 4.1 and
4.2 summarize the estimated costs by project component and category of
expenditure, respectively. Detailed costs are provided in Annex 15.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Peso Mitlion                      US$ Million               XX
Cowponent                                         Local    Foreign       Total        Local   Foreign      Total  Foreign   Base
A. Engineering Education
1. Graduate                                   297.8       237.6       535.3        1.06        8.5       19.1        44       18
2. Undergraduate/Intermediate                 115.3       187.7       303.3         4.1        6.7       10.8         62      10
3. Undergraduate/Minimun                      122.0       131.6       253.6          4.4       4.7        9.1         52       8
Subtotal A                               535.1       556.9    1,092.0          19.1       19.9      39.0         51      36
B. Science Education and Research
1. Graduate Natural Sciences                  387.7       396.1       783.8        13.8       14.1       28.0        51       26
2. Graduate Environ. Sciences                  58.2        46.7       105.0          2.1       1.7        3.7         45       4
3. Undergraduate                               97.8       155.6       253.5          3.5       5.6        9.1         61       8
Subtotal B                               543.7       598.5    1.142.2          19.4      21.4       40.8         52      38
C. Management of Technology                         4.3        23.2        27.5         0.2        0.8        1.0        84       1
D. Library Networks                                83.7       176.2      259.9          3.0        6.3       9.3         68       9
E. High School Science & Math and
In-service Teacher Training
1. High School Science & Math                 194         140.0       334.5         6.9        5.0       11.9        42       11
2. In-service Teacher Training                 53.0        63.2       116.3          1.9       2.3        4.2         54       4
Subtotal E                               247.5       203.2       450.8          8.8        7.3      16.1         45      15
F. Planning & Management
1. Information System                           4.7         3.5         8.3         0.2        0.1        0.3        63    0.3
2. Project Management                          19.1        16.9        36.0          0.7       0.6        1.3         47       1
3. Planning & Monitoring                        2.9         6.8         9.7          0.1       0.2        0.3         70    0.3
Subtotal F                                26.8        27.2        54.0          1.0        1.0        1.9        51       2
Total Base Costs                               1.441.1    1,585.3    3.026.4           51.5       56.6     108.1         52    100
Physical Contingencies                             91.5       170.0      261.4          3.3        6.1        9.3        65       9
Price Contingencies                              454.1       495.4       949.6          6.0        7.3       13.3        55      12
Total Costs                                    1.986.7    2.250.7    4.237.4           60.8       69.9     130.7          4    ILI



! 26 -
Table 4.2:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Category of                                             Peso Million                       USS Million           X         X
Expenditure                                    Local    Foreign       Total       Local   Foreign     Total  Foreign   Base
1. Investment Costs
A. Overseas training
1. Degree programs                            5.3      171.3       176.6         0.2       6.1       6.3        97       6
2. Other training                             1.7        53.9       55.6         0.0       1.9        1.9       97       2
Subtotal A                                7.0      225.2      232.2         0.2        8.0       8.3        97       8
B. In-country training
1. Degree programs                          197.4       49.4       246.8         7.1       1.8       8.9        .0       8
2. Other training                            42.5        10.6       53.1         1.5       0.4        1.9       20       2
SubtotaL B                             240.0        60.0      300.0         8.6        2.1      10.7        20      10
C. Substitute teacher salaries                 224.3         0.0      224.3         8.0       0.0        8.0         0       7
D. Equipment
1. Minimum Standards                         42.7       118.7      161.5         1.5       4.2       5.8        74       5
1. Undergraduate                             61.7       171.4      233.1         2.2       6.1       8.3        74       8
2. Graduate & research                      187.5       521.1      708.6         6.7      18.7      24.4         74     24
3. Miscellaneous                             36.2       100.5      136.7         1.3       3.6       4.9        74       5
Subtotal D                             328.2       911.7    1,239.9        11.7      32.6       44.3        74      41
E. Books and journals                           72.2       200.6      272.8         2.6       7.2        9.7        74      9
F. Civil works                                 165.0        70.7      235.7         5.9       2.5        8.4       30       8
G. Technical assistance
1. Local experts                              4.7        0.8         5.5         0.2       0.0       0.2        15    0.2
2. Foreign experts                           12.9        38.8       51.7         0.5       1.4        1.8       75       2
Subtotal G                               17.6       39.6       57.3         0.6        1.4       2.0        69       2
H. Management & supervision                     14.5         3.6       18.1         0.5       0.1        0.6        20       1
Total                                1.068.7    1.511.4   2.580.1          38.2       54.0      92.1        59      85
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental O&M                             295.4        73.9      369.3        10.6       2.6       13.2        20     12
B. Incremental salaries                         77.0         0.0       77.0         2.7       0.0        2.7         0      3
Total                                  372.4        73.9      446.3        13.3        2.6      15.9        17      15
Total Base Costs                             1.441.1    1.585.3    3.026.4         51.5      56.6      108.1        52    100
Physical contingencies                          91.5       170.0      261.4         3.3       6.1        9.3        65      9
Price contingencies                            454.1       495.4      949.6         6.0       7.3       13.3        55     12
Total Costs La                               187         2250.7    4,237.4         60.8      69.9      130.7   5     4    IL
/a  Includes US$13.8 million equivalent in identifiable taxes and duties.



- 27 -
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.2       Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in September
1991 prices and were calculated as follows:
Training: (a) overseas training: degree programs--US$25,000 per student-
year, one-year research fellowships--US$35,000 per fellowship, two-month
research fellowships--US$10,000 per fellowship, and three-month training--
US$15,000 per candidate; and (b) in-country training: doctoral programs--
US$2,750 per student-year, master's programs--US$1,900 per student-year,
one-year research fellowships--US$2,900 per fellowship, two-month research
fellowships--US$700 per fellowship, and three-month training--US$700 per
candidate.
Eguipment: on agreed detailed lists priced for similar imported or locally
available items and recent experience in neighboring countries for similar
items.
Books and journals: on agreed quantities of similar items recently procured
by universities in the Philippines and in other projects in neighboring
countries.
Civil works: on approved building proposals for the various components with
acceptable area allocations and unit rates. Unit rates per square meter for
civil works range from US$150 for basic additions to US$240 for high school
laboratories inclusive of utility services.
Technical assistance: foreign consultants--US$12,000 per staff-month, and
local consultants--average of US$2,500 per staff-month.
ODerational suDport: project management/supervision activities on standard
allowances for honoraria, travel and subsistence, and consumable materials.
Incremental O&M: for equipment--10% and for civil works--3% of the
investment, per annum.
Incremental salaries: standard government salary structure and allowances.
Physical contingencies of 12% were allowed for civil works, equipment and books
and journals and technical assistance, and 8% for overseas and in-country
training. No physical contingency was allowed for related incremental O&M and
salaries. Physical contingencies (US$9.3 million) represent 8% of base costs.
Price contingencies (US$13.3 million, about 12% of base costs) plus physical
contingencies, were estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule (Annex
19) and expected annual price increases of: local--10% for 1992 and thereafter;
foreign--3.9% for 1992 and thereafter.
4.3       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
were estimated at about Peso 2,250.7 million (US$69.9 million equivalent)
including contingencies. Based on expenditures of similar projects in the
Region, the foreign exchange component for the major categories was estimated as
follows: (a) civil works 30%; (b) equipment and books 74%; (c) overseas training
97%; (d) foreign consultants 75%; (e) in-country training, operational
expenditures for project management/supervision and incremental O&M 20%; and (f)
local consultants 15%.



- 28 -
4.4       Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes were estimated at about Peso
438.7 million (US$13.8 million equivalent). Estimated taxes were based on the
current practice of imposing a value-added tax of about 10% on all contracts for
civil works and goods and services. Import duties and taxes are estimated at
about 26% of CIF costs.
B.  Financing
Sources of Financing
4.5       The total project cost of US$130.7 million would be financed as
follows:
(a) The proposed IBRD loan of US$85.0 million would finance 73% of the
total project cost, net of taxes and duties (65% including taxes and
duties), covering 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$65.1 million,
excluding US$4.8 million for minimum standards equipment to be financed
by project universities independently) and 45% of local costs (US$21.2
million);
(b) The Government would finance 23% of the total project cost including
taxes and duties, through budgetary appropriations to:
-    DOST to cover the outstanding capital expenditures (excluding
those related to minimum equipment and substitute teachers'
salaries while faculty would be on further training) and related
taxes and duties;
-    State universities to cover the cost of minimum equipment, the
salaries of substitute teachers and new faculty, and incremental
O&M expenses; and
-    DECS to cover the salaries of substitute teachers and new faculty,
and incremental O&M expenses, for DECS-administered high schools
and teacher training institutions; and
(c) Private universities would finance 12% of the total project cost
inclusive of taxes and duties, to cover the cost of minimum equipment,
the salaries of substitute teachers and new faculty, and incremental
OK expenses. To meet expeditiously the needs for minimum equipment,
an agreement has been made with the Social Security System (SSS) that
the necessary funds would be made available to interested project
universities under its prevailing terms and conditions.
The financing plan is detailed in Table 4.3 below:



- 29 -
Table 4.3:  FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
% Share
GOP            Priv-               IBRD
Category of                          State        Sub-  ate            A   Finan-
Expenditure                    DOST Univ.  DECS total Univ.  IBRD Total  cing
Overseas training
Degree                        -                              9.1   9.1   100
Other                         -      -     -      -     -    0.9   0.9   100
In-country training
Degree                        -      -     -      -     -   10.6  10.6   100
Other                         -      -     -      -     -    2.3   2.3   100
Substitute teacher salaries ab  -    4.6   0.1   4.7   4.3    -    4.5    -
Equipment
Minimum standards             -    1.9    -       -    4.7    -    6.6    -
Undergraduate                1.9     -     -    1.9    -    8.4  10.3    81
Graduate & research          5.8     -     -    5.8    -   25.1  30.9    81
Miscellaneous                1.1     -     -    1.1    -    4.8   5.9    81
Books & journals                2.6     -     -    2.6    -   11.1  13.7    81
Civil works                     0.6     -     -    0.6    -    9.5  10.1    90
Technical assistance             -      -     -      -     -    2.4   2.4   100
Management & supervision  c      -      -     -      -     -    0.8   0.8   100
Incremental 0&M                 0.0   6.9   2.4   9.3   5.8    -   15.1    -
Incremental salaries            0.0    1.3   0.6   1.9   1.1    -    3.0
Total                      12.0  14.7   3.1  29.8  15.9  85.0 130.7    65id
iA  Including identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$13.8 million
equivalent.
/b Cost of engaging substitutes for teachers taking degree training programs.
La Mainly expenditures directly related to the management of the project such as
travel, consumable materials, honoraria, etc.
Jd About 73%, net of taxes and duties.
Feasibility and Sustainabilitv
4.6       Annual budgetary requirements to meet the project's counterpart funding
needs of Pesos 1,492.0 million are estimated as follows:



- 30 -
Table 4.4: Annual Budgetary Requirements
1992     1993      1994     1995    1996    Total
-------------------- Peso Million ---------------
DOST                          26.2    124.4    164.3       34.2    35.7    384.8
State Universities            74.4     49.1      90.7    132.2   139.8    486.3
DECS                           4.2       9.6     20.0      33.3    38.1    105.2
Private Universities         155.3     44.0      80.1    115.3   121.0    515.7
Subtotal                260.2    227.0    355.2    315.0   334.6  1,492.0
IBRD                         173.2    851.8    972.1    387.2   361.1  2,745.3
Total                   433.4  1,078.9  1.327.3    702.1   695.7  4.237.4
In light of the Government's current severe fiscal problems, the project is
designed to reduce the budgetary burden in the first implementation year.
Understandings have been reached with the Government that the Department of
Budget and Management (DBM) would assure needed FY92 and subsequent allocations
for the project, and participating private universities would assure the
provision of counterpart funds through the Memoranda of Agreement (para. 3.7)
4.7       Incremental recurrent expenditures when the project becomes fully
operational (1997) are estimated to account for about 0.4% and 0.07% of projected
DOST and DEGS budgets, which would be minimal increases. By contrast,
corresponding incremental O&M expenditures for engineering and science colleges
in state and private universities would be significant accounting for 15-25% of
total recurrent expenditures of the colleges. To help meet this increased
budgetary burden, the project is designed to improve cost recovery and
institutional capacity. The relaxation of currently regulated tuition fees by
allowing project universities to charge special laboratory development and
tuition fees would increase their ability to finance incremental recurrent
expenditures. The income from these special fees would be used to create a
revolving Science and Engineering Laboratory Fund (SELF) in each project
university. Measures to improve the project's technical sustainability would
include instituting of appropriate funding criteria for engineering and science
education, strengthening of standard-setting and monitoring roles of TPEE and
TPS, and development of DOST capacity to coordinate and monitor S&T manpower
programs.
C. Implementation
Introduction
4.8       DOST would be responsible for overall management of the proposed
project in cooperation with DECS (para. 3.8). DOST, which was elevated in
January 1987 to a Cabinet-level agency from the former National Science and
Technology Authority, is responsible for the formulation of a national S&T plan
and monitoring and coordination of its funding and implementation. DOST also
undertakes R&D, where needed, for S&T development. DOST is organized into a



- 31 -
central office, five sectoral planning councils, seven R&D institutes, five
service insUitutes, three attached agencies, and 12 regional offices. The
central office provides staff services related to Department-wide planning and
evaluation, financial management, and administration and legal matters. The
sectoral councils carry out sector-level planning, monitoring and coordination,
and administration of grant-in-aid programs for R&D and training. Each council
has a governing council for policy decision making and an executive office,
supported by a technical advisory committee whose members are drawn from a long
list of local S&T experts. DOST's service institutes such as the Technology
Application a.ad Promotion Institute (TAPI) and the Science Education Institute
(SEI) provide, inter alia, grants and venture financing for projects in emerging
fields and administer scholarships for the development of science and technical
education at high schools and teacher training institutions. Management of the
proposed project would be organized by mobilizing the central office and several
of these councils and institutes.
Management Structure. Functions and Staffing
4.9       The organizational structure for project implementation would comprise
three main bodies: (a) the Steering Committee headed by the DOST Secretary with
technical inputs from the Project Advisory Group (FAG); (b) Working Groups
composed of key units in participating councils and institutes (i.e., PCIERD,
PCASTRD, SEI, and TAPI); and (c) the Project Implementation and Coordinating
Office (PICO) created in the central office. The organizational structure is
detailed in Annex 16, and the main functions and staffing of each are described
below.
4.10      Steering Committee.  The Committee would act as the policy making and
major resource allocation body, ensuring that plans and programs are duly
executed and working closely with PAG. The Steering Committee would be chaired
by the DOST Secretary, with the DECS Secretary as first co-chairman and the
representative of private universities as co-chairman. Its members would include
an industry representative, the DBM Undersecretary, the Deputy Director General
of the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), the DOST
Undersecretary for S&T, and the PICO manager who would also serve as secretary.
The PAG, chaired by a Filipino expert and composed of two local and two foreign
S&T experts, would meet jointly twice a year, with each member devoting about
four weeks annually. The members would visit project sites, discuss project
implementation with the staff concerned, and review appropriate documents to
assess overall project progress and provide technical advice to the Steering
Committee. Each Filipino member would devote an additional week a year to
provide a more frequent technical feedback to the Steering Committee. Terms of
reference for PAG agreeable with the Bank have been prepared (Annex 17) and its
chairman has been appointed. Further, an understanding has been reached with the
Government that appointments of the remaining four PAG members would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. The PAG members including the chairman would be
appointed for the first two years, and their continued services for the remainder
of the project period would be determined at that time.
4.11      Working Groups.  These groups were created during project preparation
and have been actively involved in the design of their respective components.
They would continue their work during project implementation in close cooperation
with the project institutions. Particular efforts would be made to ensure that
the needs and requirements of end-users are met and that agreed criteria are
followed.  Below is a brief description of these Working Groups, their individual
functions and staffing strength:



32 -
PCIERD Working Group - The Human Resource and Institutional Development
Division of PCIERD would be responsible for managing the engineering
education component. The existing ten staff of this Division would be
strengthened with additional members from the participating university
libraries to coordinate the program and interface with user groups. PCIERD
has four divisions totalling 58 staff.
PCASTRD Working Group - The Human Resource and Institutional Development
Division of PCASTRD i,ould be responsible for managing the science education
and research and the library development components. The Working Group of
nine staff would handle the additional work created by this project.
PCASTRD has four divisions totalling 35 staff.
SEI Working Group - The Science and Technology Education Division of SEI
would manage the secondary school science and math/in-service teacher
training component. SEI has three divisions with a total of 52 staff. DECS
would also play an important role in this component through its regional
offices and would contribute to the administration of related teacher
training programs and the receipt and installation of equipment at the
project high schools and teacher training institutions.
TAPI Working Group - The Office of the TAPI Director would manage
implementation of the MOT component.
4.12      In coordination with project institutions, the Working Groups would
undertake the following tasks for their particular components: (a) Training:
draft candidate selection criteria and procedures, identify and select candidates
and training institutions, and evaluate programs; (b) Eguinment Procurement:
identify needs and prepare master lists; (c) Books and Journals: shortlist
suppliers and identify titles, in cooperation with the Library subgroup; (d)
Technical Assistance: identify needs, draft terms of reference, identify and
select experts or institutions, and evaluate programs; (e) Civil Works: identify
needs, liaise with users and provide information to design works, and make
arrangements for final acceptance of works; and (f) Program Monitoring and
Evaluation: monitor progress in the agreed indicators and evaluate the programs
with assistance from the relevant Technical Panels.
4.13      Proiect Implementation and Coordination Office.  The main
responsibilities of PICO would be: (a) support to the Steering Committee and PAG;
(b) coordination of the tasks of the Working Groups; (c) lia son with the Bank
and other involved agencies; (d) administration of centralized procurement under
standardized methods and procedures; (e) administration and coordination of
technical assistance services; (f) guidance for the design of civil works (mostly
refurbishing of existing laboratories and upgrading of utilities) and overseeing
of construction activities; (g) bookkeeping and financial administration of
expenditures and loan proceeds; (h) preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications to the Bank; (i) arrangement for timely audits of project accounts;
and (j) monitoring of progress and preparation of semi-annual reports to DOST and
the Bank. In addition, PICO would be responsible for the coordination of the MIS
component which would set up, inter alia, project information systems for
monitoring project implementation.
4.14      The DOST Assistant Secretary for Administration has been designated as
the PICO manager. The manager would be assisted by a full-time deputy and about
25 full-time and 25 part-time staff who would be assigned to the sections in
charge of cechnical assistance, equipment/library materials, civil works, and



- 33 -
accounting and finance (Annex 16). The deputy manager and section chiefs have
also been designated. Appointment of other full-time PICO staff would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
4.15      In addition, PICO would obtain professional services to assist with
civil works and equipment procurement. Consultant architects and engineers would
help PICO execute design work, upgrade utilities and services for laboratories
and workshops, prepare contract documents, and supervise civil works. They would
also assist PICO in the equipment procurement process, involving (a) assessment
of equipment lists and preparation of detailed specifications; (b) procurement
planning including packaging of items and phasing; (c) determination of
procurement methods, terms and conditions of contracting, and bidding documents;
(d) evaluation of bids received; and (e) receipt, testing and installation.
Experienced advisers would particularly be needed during the bidding and
evaluation process of sophisticated scientific instruments and computers.
Procurement
4.16      The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement of the following
expenditure categories:
(a) Overseas and In-country Training (US$21.2 million equivalent).
Placement of candidates in foreign institutions would be made on the
basis of relevance and quality of the programs offered, costs, and
prior experience. In-country graduate training would be arranged with
leading local universities on the agreed programs. DOST would manage
both local and foreign programs according to agreed practice;
(b) EguiRment (US$47.1 million equivalent, which excludes US$6.6 million
for minimum standard equipment to be procured independently by project
universities from own funds or SSS loans). Bid packages costing
US$200,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Local manufacturers would be given a margin of preference
in bid comparison of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or
the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Specialized equipment
estimated to cost up to an aggregate of about US$6.8 million may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
(LIB) procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines. Equipment contracts costing less than US$200,000
equivalent each would be procured through local competitive bidding
(LCB) under government procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank
and aggregating to a maximum of US$7.0 million. Off-the-shelf items
not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent for each package and aggregating to
a maximum of US$2.3 million, could be purchased through internatior.al
and local shopping on the basis of competitive price quotations from at
least three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines.
(c) Books. Journals and Instructional Materials (US$13.7 million
equivalent). Because of the intellectual property rights or the
specialized nature of the items involved, requirements under this
component would be procured either on a sole source basis or from a
limited number of suppliers. Whenever possible, procurement would be
carried out under local or international shopping. Otherwise, they
would be purchased directly from publishers or their authorized



34 -
distributors. Procurement procedures may include the services of a
publishing agent to assist in the selection of books by making
available lists of published materials and delivery information, supply
of library materials and in cataloging data. Selection of this agent
would follow procedures acceptable to the Bank and on the basis of
technical proposals reflecting project needs, drawn up by the
Government and reviewed by the Bank. In addition, terms and conditions
of the service contract would be reviewed by Bank staff;
(d) Civil Works (US$10.1 million equivalent). Past experience in the
Philippines has shown that contracts for civil works do not attract
foreign bidders unless they are packaged to form contracts in excess of
US$5 million. As this would not be feasible under the proposed project,
because of the geographical dispersion of project sites, contracts for
civil works (ranging from US$15,000 to US$300,000 equivalent) would be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Interested foreign firms would, however, be allowed to bid; and
(e) Foreign and Local Consultant Services (US$2.4 million equivalent).
Consultant services would be selected and employed in accordance 'ith
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
DOST has prepared drafts of a procurement plan and standard bid documents for
goods to be procured under ICB.
4.17      Procurement procedures to be used for the above categories are
indicated in Table 4.5.



- 35 -
Table 4.5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Category of Expenditure              ICB       LCB     Other/a    N.A.    Cost/b
Overseas training
Degree                          -         -         9.1       -         9.1
(9.1)              (9.1)
Other                           -0.9                          -         0.9
(0.9)              (0.9)
In-country training
Degree                          -         -        10.6       -        10.6
(10.6)             (10.6)
Other                           -         -         2.3        -        2.3
(2.3)              (2.3)
Substitute teacher salaries         -         -         -          9.0      9.0
Equipment
Minimum standards               -         -         6.6        -        6.6
(0.0)              (0.0)
Undergraduate                   8.3       1.5       0.5       -        10.3
(6.7)    (1.3)     (0.4)               (8.4)
Graduate/Research              24.8      4.6        1.5       -        30.9
(20.0)    (3.8)     (1.3)              (25.1)
Miscellaneous                   4.7      0.9        0.3        -        5.9
(3.9)    (0.7)     (0.2)               (4.8)
Books, journals and
instructional materials           -         -        13.7       -        13.7
(11.1)             (11.1)
Civil works                         -         8.0       2.1        -       10.1
(7.6)     (1.9)      -        (9.5)
Technical assistance                -         -         2.4        -        2.4
(2.4)              (2.4)
Management and Supervision /c       -         -                    0.8      0.8
(0.8)    (0.8)
Incremental O&M  d                  -         -         -        15.1      15.1
Incremental salaries /d             -         -         -         3.0       3.0
Total                          378      15.0       50.0      27.9    130
(30.6) (ITV) ()h               Zn-)   t85)
i  Other procurement procedures include: shopping procedures; direct purchases
for books and journals; and technical assistance engaged in accordance with
Bank guidelines. It also includes minimum standards equipment procured
independently by private universities, using own funds or loans from SSS.
/b Totals represent total estimated costs per category including physical and
price contingencies.
i Project management includes expenditures directly related to the management
of the project such as travel, consumable materials and honoraria.
14 The Government and private universities would finance 100% of these
expenditures.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 36 -
4.18      Bank Revigw.  Preliminary architectural designs, terms of reference,
letters of invitation for consulting services (local and foreign consultants),
and master equipment lists indicating proposed packaging and cost estimates would
be reviewed by the Bank prior to bid advertisement. Prior Bank review would also
be required of all associated procurement documents relating to contracts for:
(a) civil works exceeding US$200,000 equivalent (covering about 70% of the value
and 55% of the estimated number of contracts); and (b) equipment and other goods
exceeding US$200,000 equivalent (covering about 75% of the value and 30% of the
estimated number of contracts). Other contracts would be subject to selective
post-award reviews.
Disbursements
4.19      The proposed Bank loan of US$85.0 million would be disbursed over a
period of about five years. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June
30, 1997 (the Closing Date) and would be made against the following categories of
expenditures covering the selected activities to be financed under the proposed
loan: (a) equipment, books, journals, instructional materials--(i) 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported goods; (ii) 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for locally manufactured goods; and (iii) 75% of local expenditures
for other goods procured locally; (b) civil works--90% of total expenditures; (c)
overseas and in-country training--100% of total expenditures; (d) professional
and consulting services of local and foreign experts--100% of total expenditures;
and (e) project management support--100% of total expenditures.
4.20      The program and disbursement forecast (Annex 18) is feasible
considering DOST's ongoing undertakings in S&T research and training programs and
priority and commitment given to the proposed investments.
4.21      Documentation of ExRenditures.  Withdrawal applications for consulting
services and for works and goods with a contract value of US$200,000 equivalent
or more would be supported by full documentation. Contracts below US$200,000
equivalent and other disbursements against programs not undertaken by contract
such as in-country staff training or project management support would be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE), for which supporting documents
would be maintained by PICO. PICO would be responsible for aggregating the
eligible expenditures under each budget and for preparing withdrawal applications
for submission to the Bank. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications
would be aggregated in amounts of US$200,000 equivalent or more, prior to
submission to the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Audits. and Bank Supervision
4.22      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Various indicators have been prepared to
monitor progress in achieving quality and efficiency-related project objectives.
Besides overall targets and progress indicators (Annex 5), each project
institution has developed its own indicators for monitoring, which are
incorporated in the Memoranda of Agreement (para. 3.7). DECS/TPEE has also
produced a plan for phasing out currently substandard undergraduate engineering
programs. SEI has produced monitoring and target indicators to measure the
impact of science and math enrichment courses in the project high schools (para.
3.26). A computer-based project management information system to be created at
DOST under the project (para. 3.28) would provide information on, inter alia,
scholarship awardees to follow up on their fields of study, location of schools,
progress, and location after study completion, as well as equipment items to
follow up on their installed location and working conditions. Detailed cost



- 37 -
estimates and implementation schedule (Annexes 16 and 20) would also serve as an
important tool for project monitoring. The Government has assured the Bank that
DOST would install a system to monicor scholarship programs by August 31, 1992.
4.23      PICO would hold weekly meetings with the Working Groups to coordinate
implementation, review project progress and discuss problems and actions needed.
Standard reporting formats making use of the computerized management information
system would be developed to facilitate this review process. PAG would convene
twice a year (May/June, December/January), review the overall project direction
and provide expert advice to project institutions through the Steering Committee.
It would also produce a report, which would be incorporated in PICO's semi-annual
progress reports to be submitted to the Bank (around June and January).
DECS/TPEE would also play a key role to help DOST monitor quality improvement and
phasing out of substandard programs.
4.24      In addition to weekly and semi-annual review meetings, DOST with the
support of DECS, would organize a project implementation review workshop each
year, around March/April when a budget for the next year is prepared by a line
agency for DBM submission. The workshop would include participants from outside
DOST as well, including representatives from DECS, NEDA, DBM, the Department of
Finance, industry and academe.  It would review past performance and agree on the
next year's plans and budget requirements.  The Government would furnish the Bank
for comment, prior to DBM submission, the proposed project implementation plan
and budget requirements for the following year. Plans for each component would
include a detailed breakdown and scope of all proposed inputs, planned
procurement and training activities, and arrangements for the provision of
technical services. DOST would also hold a mid-term project implementation
review in late 1994.
4.25      Accounts and Audits.  Separate project accounts would be prepared and
maintained by PICO in accordance with sound accounting practices. The format of
the accounts would be designed to reflect project breakdown as indicated in the
project cost tables (Annex 15). Accounts and documentation supporting SOEs would
be maintained separately and would be readily available centrally for review by
visiting Bank missions. Accounts and SOEs for each fiscal year would be prepared
and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of
the audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, together with
a consolidated single auditor's report for the whole project, would be furnished
to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year. Responsibility for this consolidation of audit reports would
rest with the Commission on Audit (COA).
4.26      Bank Supervision.  The Bank supervision of implementucion of the
proposed project would require resources considerably in excess of those normally
allocated. The project is complex, involving three levels of education, i.e.,
graduate, undergraduate and high school programs. It would also cover a number
of disciplines ranging from pure and applied sciences, advanced technology such
as materials science and biotechnology, to science and math for teacher training
and secondary schooling. This wide coverage would require expertise in various
fields and, most important, effective coordination of programs. Periodic Bank
supervision missions to the field would therefore require the assistance of
consultants who are practicing engineers and scientists familiar with the state-
of-the art in their fields. In addition, while Bank staff have held workshops on
procedures and processes for procurement and loan withdrawal applications, they
would need to continue assistance in these areas since the proposed project would



- 38 -
be the first Bank-assisted project to be implemented by DOST. Consequently, a
total of about 15 staff-weeks would be annually required for field supervision of
the project during the initial two years of implementation, declining to 12 to 10
staff-weeks thereafter.
Status of Project Preparation
4.27      Project preparation is advanced.  Assistance provided under the Japan
Grant Agreement financed designs for the library and HOT components as well as
preparation of lists of major equipment and the related procurement arrangements.
The Bank has also provided advice on procurement planning, methods and phasing.
With these inputs, equipment lists and cost estimates have been prepared and
specifications and bidding documents are under preparation. All project
institutions have been selected on the basis of agreed criteria, and adequate
space to install new equipment exists with a few exceptions, where necessary
upgrading or expansion would be carried out under the project. The management
organization and staffing for the project have been agreed and personnel for key
positions have designated. Staff development plans for the initial activities
have been drafted and candidates for the first batch of fellowships identified.
4.28      The project would be implemented over a period of five years, January
1992 through December 1996, corresponding to five Philippine fiscal years. The
loan would close by ,-ne 30, 1997, six months after project completion.
V. IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
5.1       The environmental impact of the proposed project would be long-term,
remedial and preventive. By increasing the focus of environmental studies on the
urban and industrial environment and scientific collection of quality baseline
data, and by improving training and research capacities in fields such as
hydraulic engineering and earth sciences, the project would contribute to
improved management of environmental problems related to air and water and solid-
waste disposal as a result of increasing urbanization and industrialization.
5.2       In comparison to other countries, developed and developing, women are
overall well represented in universities in the Philippines. In fact, female
enrollments are more dominant than male enrollments in many universities in
biology, chemistry, mathematics, chemical engineering and industrial engineering.
Women are however underrepresented in fields such as physics, mechanical and
electrical engineering because of the nature of work ir.volved and long-rooted
tradition. Project support to science and mathematics enrichment courses in high
schools should influence students in favor of moving into more diversified fields
of engineering and science.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       Quality and efficiency improvements expected at the institutions
participating in the project would permit an annual output of about 5,000 and
2,000 better trained engineers and scientists, respectively. Outputs from
project institutions would account for about 20% and 40% of the total annual
graduates with bachelor's degrees in the priority engineering and science fields,



- 39 -
respectively, and about 25% and 100% increases in engineering and science
graduates with advanced degrees, respectively. These engineers and scientists
would possess the appropriate new technology skills and research capability
needed for technology transfer and assimilation, and for efficient operations of
non-traditional industrial plants. The project would also produce scientists and
engineers trained to focus on protective measures for the urban and industrial
environment and assure the collection of quality baseline data which are
essential for environmental management.
6.2       The project would further expand access to improved high school science
and math instruction to better prepare youth for higher education as well as for
employment in S&T fields. The number of high schools with special emphasis on
science and math would increase from the few currently available in major cities
to 110 schools spread over 13 regions. Institutionally, the project would
improve DOST's capacity to plan, coordinate and finance manpower development,
strengthen the Technical Panels' monitoring and advisory roles, and develop a
science and engineering library management system among the participating
universities. With all these improvements combined, the project should improve
the likelihood of the Government's success in achieving its goals of increasing
industrial productivity and competitiveness.
B. Risks
6.3       There are sever&' risks.  First, the social pressure to further expand
underfunded and low quality programs may persist, resulting in a continued
excessive mismatch between supply and demand. To minimize this risk the
monitoring roles of both TPEE and TPS of DECS would be expanded, and agreement
would be reached with the Government on phasing out the substandard programs.
Annual implementation review workshops attended by representatives of Government,
universities and the Bank would also closely monitor project objectives. Second,
recurrent cost funding may be inadequate for O&M of laboratories and periodic
upgrading due to the lack of trained staff and funds. The project would
therefore provide incentives for laboratory classes and faculty, would create the
S&T fund for O&M and upgrading of laboratories, and would include a study on
mechanisms for financing long-term recurrent technical and financial needs.
Third, a potential brain drain of faculty granted foreign scholarships is another
concer-. But faculty would be bound by the current conditions of such awards
that include a penalty to repay scholarship costs if they decide not to return to
the country and, for those who return, an obligation to work at their
institutions for a duration of twice the scholarship period. The effort to link
the fields of scholarships to the equipping of specialized laboratories under the
project would also minimize a loss of faculty as it would allow returning
scholars to continue research and conduct effective teaching. Finally, this is
the first time DOST would be managing a World Bank-assisted project. However,
the risk this poses to successful project implementation woull be minimized by
structuring management functions around existing line offices already engaged in
similar activities, by developing the MIS for improved program monitoring and by
providing technical assistance for project management.



- 40 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       The Bank has received assurances from the Government that:
(a) by December 31, 1992, project state universities would obtain approval
from the respective Boards of Regents to charge the special laboratory
development and tuition fees based on one laboratory session as two
units (para. 3.7);
(b) by December 31, 1992, each project university would create a SELF
(para. 3.7);
(c) by May 31, 1993, all project universities, state and private, would
meet minimum laboratory equipment standards (para. 3.12);
(d) by August 31, 1992, DOST would install a system to monitor scholarship
programs (para. 4.22); and
(e)  the Government would comply with project audit and progress reporting
requirements (paras. 4.23 and 4.25).
7.2       Understandings have been reached between the Government and the Bank
on:
(a) terms of reference for studies on laboratory operation and maintenance
and on accreditation criteria, incentives and institutional
arrangements (paras. 3.5 and 3.7);
(b) modifications to the Memorandum of Agreement in consultation with the
Bank (para. 3.7);
(c) terms of reference and the appointment schedule for expert services to
be obtained ur.der the project (para. 3.11):
(d) scholarship eligibility criteria, award conditions and selection
processes for engineers and scientists in industry, R&D institutions
and new engineering and science graduates (paras. 3.13 and 3.18);
(e) the final composition and procurement timing of sophisticated research
equipment to be determined by DOST with technical inputs of PAG (para.
3.17);
(f) appointments of a systems librarian and LAN administrators for each
project library according to terms to be agreed with the Bank (para.
3.25);
(g) access by the staff of participating universities to the network
libraries without undue restrictions and formality (para. 3.25);
(h) provision by the DBM and project private universities of needed FY92
and subsequent budgetary allocations for the project (para. 4.6);
(i) terms of reference for PAG (para. 4.10); and



- 41 -
(j) review by the Bank of project implementation and budget plans for the
following project year before submission to DBM (para. 4.24).
7.3       Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that DECS would have issued
an order allowing project private universities to charge the special laboratory
development fee and the special laboratory tuition fee based on one laboratory
session as two units (para. 3.7), and that all PAG members and all full-time PICO
staff would have been appointed (paras. 4.10 and 4.14).
7.4       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$85.0 million equivalent
to the Republic of the Philippines, repayable in 20 years, including a five-year
grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 42 -                                           ANNEX 1
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Priority Sectors, Councils Responsible for Priority Sector Development, and
Corresponding Priority Academic Disciplines Supported under the Project
Corrosponding
Corresponding         Science High
Priority Sectors              Responsible Sector         Engineering            Technology
Councils              Disciplines           Disciplines
Agriculture
Aquaculture A Marino Fisheries
Forestry and Natural Resources
Metals and Metal Engineering               PCIERD           Mochanical Engineering   Physics
Industrial Engineering
Textile Industry                           PCIERD           Industrial Engin-ering   Chemistry
Mining and Minerals                        PCIERD           Materials Engineering    Earth
Sciencos
Process Industry (coconuts                 PCIERD           Chemical Engineering        Chemistry
polymers & sucrochemicals)
Food A Fed Industry                        PCIERD                                       Biology/Bio-
Technology
Microbiology
Energy                              PCIERD (PCASTRD) /a   Mechanical Engineering   Physics
Electrical Engin- ring
Transportation                             PCIERD
Construction Industry                      PCIERD
Information Technology                PCASTRD (PCIERD)      Computer Engineering        Computer
Comunication               Scionce
Enginoering                Physics
Mathematics
Electronics, Instrumentation          PCASTRD (PCIERD)      Electrical Engineering   Physics
& Control                                                   Instrument A Control        Science
Electronics                Chemical
Communication              Instrument-
ation
Emerging Technologies (lasers,        PCASTRD (PCIERD)      Materials Engineering    Material
polymero, electronic                                                                    Science
materials A ceramics                                                                    Physics
environment)                                                                            Chemistry
Pharmaceuticals                              PCHRD                                      Pharmacology
/ Sectoral Council in brackets indicates that it has secondary role.



PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
RAD Porsonnel by Agarcy. Field and Educational Qualification
Field and Educational Qualification
Engineering                                                   Humnities
Agricultural            a                 Medical              Natural                A
Science           Techno!*Sy            Science              Science          Social Scionco           TOTAL
Total No.
of
Agency   Porsonnel Masteral  Doctoral Mastoral Doctoral  Mastoral Doctoral  Masteral Doctoral  Mactoral  Doctoral Masteral Doctoral
ASTI        29         -          -         1         -         -          -         1         -          -         -         2          0
FNRI       28          -          1         1         -         19         1         a         2          7         -        88          4
FPRDI      889        32          4         1         1         -          -         4         1          S         -        42          6
ITDI       594         -          -         a         2         6          2        18         2         4          1        31          7
MIRDC      280         -          -         -         1         -          -         -         1          -         -         -          2
PAQASA    1462          -         -         1         -         -          -        22         1          7         -        30          1
PCAMRD      47         7          2         -                   1          -         1         2          1         -        10          4
PCASTRD     88         -          -         1         1          -         -         -         1          -         -         1          2
PCIRD       66          -         -         -         -         6          -         -         -          S         -        11          0
PIYS       160         -          -         -         -         -          -         1         1          -         -         1          1
PNRI       807         9          2        10         1          -         -        27         9          4         -        SO         12
PNSS        62         -          -         -         -         1          -         -         -          1         -         2          0
PTRI       248         -          -         -         -         -          -         1         -          1         -         2          0
SfEI        7          -          -         -         1         -          -         -         1          3         1         3          8        w
STII        87         -          -         1         -         -          -         -         -          4         1         S          1
TAPI        64         -          -         1         -         -          -         -         -          2         -         3         0
TOTAL    4127        48         9         20         7        38          3        81        21        44          3       226        43
Source: DOST
Note:    ASTI    -    Advanced Science and Technology Institute
FNRI   -    Food Nutrition Rosearch Institute
FPRDI  -    Forest Products Reserch and Development Institute
ITDI    -    Industrial Technology Dovelopment Institute
MIRDC   -    Metl Industry Rosearch and Development Center
PAGASA  -    Philippino Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomic-l SGrvices Administration
PCAMRD  -    Philippino Council for Aquatic and Marine Resarch and Dovelopment
PCASTRD -    Philippino Council for Advanced Scieneo and Technology Rosearch and Dovolopment
PCHRD   -    Philippino Council for Heoath Reserch and Developmnt
PIYS    -    Philippino Institute of Volcanology and Seismology
PNRI   -    Philippino Nucloar Reearch Institute
PNSS    -    Philippino National Scienco Society
PTRI    -    Philippine Toxtile Reserch Institute
SEI     -    Science Education Instituto
STII    -    Science and Technology Informtion Institute
TAPI    -    Technology Application and Promotion Institute
m
N



PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Skills That Employers Consider Most Important
Changes Recommended by Employers                      Total                        Number of Respondents
(In Order of Importance)                      Respondents                     (responses between 0-5)
0     1     2      3     4      5
More hands-on practical/laboratory training             24                   0     1     1      1     7      14
More training in technologies/applied science           22                   0     0     0      4     9       9
Better links between university and industry            22                  0      0     2      3     7      10
More library facilities/research approach               23                   0     0     1      4     9       9
More problem-solving approach to training               23                   0     1     0      4    11       7
Better language and writing skills                      23                  0      0     2      7     7       7
Better communication/expression clarity skills          24                  0      2     3      3     9       8
Better development of conceptualizing skills            23                  0      1     1    10      7       4
More emphasis on fundamentals of science                21                   0     0     1      9    10       1
More policy planning training in S&T education          22                   0     1     0    12      9       0
Better computer skills                                  24                  0      1     6    11      3       3
More emphasis on theory and theoretical skills          21                  0      0     5    10      5       1           1
Changes Recommended by Employees to University Education in Science and Engineering
Changes Recommended                              Total
(In Order of Importance)                        Respondents              0     1      2     3      4     5
More laboratory facility                          109                 0      0     3     7    24    75
Better links with industry                       110                  1     0      8     5    26    70
More hands-on training                            110                 1      0     2     7    37    63
More library facility                             110                 0      1     3    10    32    64
Better trained teachers                          104                  0     0    11      7    26    60
More research approach                            107                 1      0     7    15    28    56
Source:  WB Mission (November 1990) Market Survey Data
m
'C
Wi



PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Percentage Shares of Female Undergraduate Enrollments in Selected Colleges of Engineering and Science by Field,
1990191
(Z)
Name of College                                                                     Electronics &   Computer
of Engineering          Civil   Mechanical   Electrical   Chemical   Industrial   Communication    Science
UP Diliman                 21        2            4            49          46              -             40
De La Salle University      -        -            -            37          29              8             41
Univ. of Santo Tomas       20        -            4            73          59             15              -
Xavier University          28       0.5           3            64           _
Name of College
of Science              Biology         Chemistry        Mathematics         Physics        Computer Science
University of the
Philippines                58              66               66                 39                   _
De La Salle University      58              57                61                23                  45
Ateneo de Manila
University                 46              13                37                25                  31



- 46 -                                ANNEX S
Table 1
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINE.
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUC^" 'N PROJECT
Targets and Monitoring Indicators
Engineering Education
Indicators
Objective                                    1990         1993        1996
Enrollments
BS - Total                                              26,180       30,000       34,000
2 by Field:
Chemical Engineering                       12.69       12.5         11.85
Computer Engineering                       6.44         6.5          6.60
Electronics/Communication Engineering   19.31          18.0         15.75
Electrical Engineering/a                  17.46        19.0         21.90
Materials Engineering (Metal,    )
Ceramics, Mining)                )        2.47         2.5          2.85
Hechanical Engineering/b                  24.78        26.0         27.75
Manufacturing Engineering                  0.61         0.5          0.50
Industrial Engineering                    16.24        15.0         12.90
MS/PhD - Total                                             200           150         250
Full Time:                                  -             50          150
Part Time:                                 200           100          100
Efficiency
Drop out rate in 1st and 2nd years:                      16-40          -             20
Number of years taken for graduation MS:                      4         -              2
PhD:                4-5          -              4
Faculty FTE/Student Ratio:
Chemical Engineering                     1:22.1          -           1:20
Computer Engineering               )
Electronics/Communication        )      1:73.3          -           1:50
Engineering                      )
Electrical Engineering                   1:35.9          -           1:30
Materials Engineering (Metel,    )
Ceramics, Mining)                )      1:13.2          -           1:20
Mechanical Engineering                   1:52.7          -           1:35
Manufacturing Engineering                   -            -           1:35
Industrial Engineering                   1:89.5          -           1:35
/a  Includes specializations of power systems, instrumentation and control, electronics
and computer engineering and communications.
/b Includes specializations of power/energy, production engineering, machine design.



-47 -                                   X    5
Table 1
Page 2 of 6
Indicators
Objective                                 1990         1993         1996
Size of Faculty/Department:
Chemical Engineering                       7.89          -          10.50
Computer Engineering                       0.68          -           8.00
Electronics/Communication         )
Engineering                      )        4:15          -            -
Electrical Engineering                     6.68          -          13.00
Materials Engineering (Metal,
Ceramics, Mining)                         2.58          -           5.00
Mechanical Engineering                     6.47          -          14.00
Manufacturing Engineering                   -            -           3.0
Industrial Engineering                     2.50          -          6.5
Oualt
I of Faculty by Educational Qualifications:
Chemical Engineering         PhD           9.0           -             10
MS           29.67          -             40
BS           61.33          -             50
Computer Engineering         PhD            -            -              5
MS            3.85          -             25
BS           96.15          -             70
Electronics/Communication
Engineering                 PhD           1.26          -              5
MS            5.70          -             25
BS           93.04          -             70
Electrical Engineering       PhD          10.63          -             10
MS           20.87          -             30
aS           68.50          -             60
Materials Engineering        PhD           8.16          -             10
MS           20.41          -             40
BS           71.43          -             so
Mechanical Engineering       PhD           5.67          -             10
Ms           17.41          -             30
BS           76.92          -             60
Weekly Hours of Instruction (BS Level):                  25-30          -          20-25



- 48                                 ANNE-  5
Page 3 of 6
Indicators
Objective                                       1990        1993        1996
Industry-Academe LinkaRes
Number of Engineering Colleges with
Institutionalized Industry-College
Linkage Programs                                           7           -           19
Budget
Number of Engineering Colleges with
Adequate Budgetary Provisions for
Laboratory Operations and Equipment
Maintenance                                                l           -           19



- 49 -                                ANNEX S
Table 2
Page 4 of 6
PHILIPPIN
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Targets and Monitorino Indicators
Science Education
Indicators
Objective                                        1990        1993          1996
Enrolmenats
BS - Total                                                 9,740       9,400       12,500
t by Field:
Biology (Inc. Mol. Biol. & Biotech)        45.5        47.3           39.8
Chemistry                                  12.7        14.9           13.6
Computer Science                           16.6         4.2            5.1
Earth Science                               0.5         0.5            1.0
Mathematics                                18.9        20.6           25.6
Statistics                                  1.9         2.0            1.8
Phiysics                                    3.8         5.1            6.6
Science                                      -          5.3            6.5
MS/PhD - Total                                             1,350        996         2,924
- by Field:
Biology                                    25.6        34.8           28.4
BioChemistry                                0.5
Agric. Chemistry                            1.4        24.0           24.0
Chemistry                                  17.9
Computer Science                           21.6         3.2            3.0
Earth Science                               4.5         6.1           14.9
Mathematics                                18.0        19.2           15.7
Pharmacology                                 -          0.1            0.3
Physiology                                    -          -              -
Statistics                                  0.5         7.7            2.3
Physics                                     0.5         4.8           11.4
% PhD of MS/PhD - Total                                  14.1%      19.4%         17.3%
Efficiency
Drop out rate in 1st and 2nd years:          (Highest in Mathematics and Biology)
Number of years taken for graduation MS:                     -           -             -
PhD:                  -



-50                                    ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 5 of 6
Indicators
Objective                                       1990        1993         1996
Faculty/Student Ratio:
Biology                                   1:24        1:24         1:24
Chemistry                                 1:7         1:8          1:10
Computer Science                          1:36        1:45         1:55
Earth Science                             1:3         1:4          1:5
Mathematics                               1:11        1:13         1:15
Statistics                                1:12        1:14         1:16
Physics                                   1:4         1:6          1:8
Size of Faculty/Program:
Biology                                   22.3        23.8         28.3
Chemistry                                 20.9        26.5         33.5
Computer Science                           3.8         6.0          6.5
Earth Science                             28.0        41.0         41.0
Mathematics                               15.0        22.8         28.1
Statistics                                 8.0        11.5          9.5
Physics                                   12.1        19.1         22.6
{)ualitv
X of Faculty by Educational Qualifications:
Biology                      BS           12.4        23.8         13.3
MS/PhD        87.6         76.2         86.7
Chemistry                    BS           47.9        53.5         42.0
MS/PhD        52.1         46.5         58.0
Computer Science             BS           40.0        33.3          7.7
MS/PhD        60.0         66.7         92.3
Earth cience                BS            -          32.0         65.0
MS/PhD        100.0        68.0         35.0
Mathematics                  BS           38.8        41.1         35.2
MS/PhD        61.2         58.9         64.8
Statistics                   BS           25.0        26.0         37.0
MS/PhD        75.0         74.0         63.0
Physics                      BS           50.6        62.1         48.1
MS/PhD        49.4         37.9         51.9
Weekly Hours of Instruction (ES Level):                  12-40       10-24         18.0



-51 -                                ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 6 of 6
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Targets and Monitoring Indicators
Teacher Training
Indicators
Objective                                       1990         1993        1996
Enrollments
MS/MAT/PhD - Total
2 of MS/MAT/PhD Students                              4.3Z         6.1Z         7.7Z
BS - Total                                              13,463        8,133        9,588
Z by Field:
BS Elementary Ed                         53.6Z        40.3?        24.62
BS Special Ed                             1.9Z
BS Secondary Ed                          44.5Z        59.7?        75.4Z
Efficiency
Drop out rate in 1st & 2nd years:                         1.7         2.1          2.1
Number of years taken for graduation MS:                  2            2            2
PhD:               -            -           -
Faculty FTE/Student Ratio:                               1:34         1:32         1:33
Size of Faculty/Department:                               32           36           39
Quality
S of Faculty by Educational Qualification:
PhD/EdD                                   102           11           15
MS/IMA/MAT                                46Z           55           65
BS                                        44Z           34           20
Weekly hours of instruction (ES Level):                   21           19           1S



- 52 -                                     ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Age of Main Laboratory Equipment (Undergraduate)
Age                                           Age
University of the Philippines        Years        De La Salle University           Years
Electrical Engineering Dept.                    Electronics & Comm. Eng. Dept.
Electronics Lab                      -         Electrical Circuit Labs             8
Communication Lab                    -         Electrical Machinery Lab           20
Power Lab                          25          Communication Lab                 10-15
Micro-Electronics Lab                -         Digital Lab                       10-15
Crystal Growth Lab                  6
Radio Room                        4-15
Micro-Electronics Lab              2-3
Chemical Engineering Dept.                     Chemical Engineering Dept.
Fluid Flow Lab                     35          Unit Operations Lab               17-25
Mass Transfer Lab                   35         Process Control Lab                17
Heat Transfer Lab                  35
Analytical Lab                     30
Environmental Engineering                      Mechanical Engineering Dept.
Lab                                15          Refrigeration & Air
Conditioning                    17
Mechanical Engineering Dept.                     Fuels & Lubrication Lab            17
Heat & Power Lab                   40          Heat Transfer Lab                 14-17
Instrumentation                    10          Internal Combustion Eng Lab        17
Steam Power                       17
Hydraulic Machinery               17
Mining Engineering Dept.                       Manufacturing Management Dept.
Pilot Plants                       35          Machine Shop                       17
Extractive Metallurgy Lab          20          Measurement Lab (New)               4
Batch Test Lab                    20-35        Forging, Foundry                   25
Scanning Electron Miscroscopy       9
Metallographic Lab                  35       Industrial Engineering Dept.
Processing Lab                     35
Civil Engineering Dept.                        Civil Engineering Dept.
Materials Testing Lab               -          Materials Testing Lab              17
Soil & Rock Mechanics Lab (New)   2
Geodetic Engineering
Photographic Lab                 20-22
Photogrammetric Lab                 24
National Hydraulics Research
Center                            5-25
Computer Lab
20 IBM PCs                        3-4
20 IBM XT PCs                      -



- 53 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Budgeting in SUCs and Private Universities
State Universities and Colleges (SUCs)
1.       Like other agencies of government, the budget preparation process for
SUCs is signalled by the "Budget Call" issued by the DBM. This document is
released some time in February and establishes the target expenditure ceilings
and the calendar of activities leading to the preparation of the budget for the
next calendar year. Budget preparation takes place beginning about February to
August, at which time the President submits the proposed Budget to Congress.
2.       The budget offices of SUCs prepare their own internal budget call,
asking for budget estimates from the component units of the institution
(colleges, institutes, schools, and administrative and income producing units).
The ceilings given by DBM to the SUC and the indicative percentage increase over
the previous year's budget is normally communicated to Deans and other unit
heads.
3.       The SUC budget proposal is finalized by the SUC head with the assistance
of the SUC budget office and normally of an SUC budget committee. They are then
forwarded to the DBM through the Regional Development Council (in the case of
SUCs outside of Metro Manila) or directly to DBM (in the case of SUCs located in
Metro Manila). Budget proposals do not pass DECS.
4.       The succeeding stages of budget preparation involve analyses conducted
by DBM technical staff, Executive Review Board hearings to which agency heads
(including the heads of the larger SUCs) are invited to make presentations, and
Cabinet discussion of DBM recommendations. The President's Budget is finalized
on the basis of Cabinet decisions.
5.       With the enactment of the annual general appropriations act, the DBM
proceeds to implement the approved expenditure program and notifies agencies of
their respective expenditure ceilings for the coming year. This constitutes the
signal for SUCs to prepare their respective internal operating budget within the
approved expenditure ceiling, which is invariably lower than the proposal they
originally submitted for the fiscal year. The internal budget incorporates
personnel items (posts) approved by DBM. Universities are given the leeway to
field approved posts to colleges/schools/units and to allocate non-personnel
recurrent costs among their component units.
6.       The General Appropriations Act (1990) includes new appropriations for
SUCs identified by function (typically: general administration and support
services, administration of personnel benefits, salary standardization, advanced
education services, higher education services, research services, extension
services, and auxiliary services). For each function, expenditure objects are
specified (personal services, maintenance and other operating expenses, and
capital outlays). Appropriations for locally funded and foreign assisted
projects are similarly specified by expenditure object for each project.



-54 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
7.       The income of the ordinary SUC enters the national treasury and help
support national appropriations for the SUC. The unique exception is made for
U.P. which can retain the income.
8.       Under a special law, the UP is allowed to retain and to budget for
maintenance and operating expenses, all income earned from student fees and other
sources. In addition, its approved national appropriations are released with
minimum restrictions, thus allowing its board of Regents the authority to budget
whatever funds are available for the institution.
9.       The income retention formula at UP is also applied internally, such that
each college/department is allowed to retain much or all of the fees that it
collects, including laboratory fees. This constitutes a built-in incentive for
the authorities concerned to raise fees as a means of augmenting normal budget
allocations.
Private Universities
10.      Private schools are organized under the Corporation Code in the form of
stock or non-stock corporations:
(a) Schools organized as stock corporations are proprietary institutions
with stockholders and Boards of Directors and which are otherwise
governed by corporate law provisions that also apply to business
enterprises. Most non-sectarian institutions are of this type; and
(b) Schools organized as non-stock corporations include those that are part
of religious corporations and those that are organized as foundations,
with members rather than stockholders and with Boards of Trustees.
11.      Budget practice varies from institution to institution, depending upon
tne policies and practices instituted by their respective Boards. The larger and
better run institutions would prepare annual budgets of income and expenditures,
which are duly considered and approved by their Boards at the start of the school
year. Budget discussions are frequently timed for consistency with application
deadlines for student fee increases.
12.      Generally, private schools would have a budget office or a budget
officer responsible for the budget process. At the University of San Carlos in
Cebu City, which appears to be typical, the process is as follows:
(a) Budget guidelines are prepared by the University Budget Committee
consisting of the President, the Vice Presidents for Finance, Academic
Affairs and Administration, and the Chief Accountant;
(b) The various colleges/institutes/schools/units ("cost centers") heads
prepare their respective budget proposals much as their counterparts at
SUCs;
(c) The budget proposals are consolidated by the university budget office
and presented, with recommendations, for discussion by the Budget
Committee; and
(d) The final budget proposal, incorporating the president's decisions, are
presented to the Board of Trustees for final action.



- 55 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
13.      The University of San Carlos, like other well managed private schools,
has a highly developed system of budget control and budget performance review.
Expenditures are controlled by cost center and expenditure object on the basis of
bud4igeted funds and monthly performance reports are prepared and reviewed
individually by members of the Budget Committee.
14.      Budgets are highly sensitive to student fee increases, potential or
recent mandatory wage increases (such as increased cost of living allowances and
minimum wages directed by law), and across the board increases in the public
sector which may need to be matched by private schools:
(a) Student fees are not always easy to obtain. Under R.A. No. 6728
("Government Assistance to Students and Teachers in Private Education,'
June 10, 1989), consultations with "student governments or councils,
alumni and faculty associations" for college level student fee increases
and that in case of disagreement, the alumni association of the school
or any other impartial body of their choosing shall act as arbiter.
Consultation has been interpreted by militant student groups to mean
consent, resulting in prolonged negotiations and on occasion, in student
strikes and other class disruptions; and
(b) One recurring budget problem is increased wages mandated in the course
of a school year which was not anticipated in the original student fee
application and school budget. Schools generally respond to this by
cutting down elsewhere to make up for the gap.
15.      P.D. No. 451 (May 11, 1974) requires, among other things, that 60
percent of any increase in tuition fees must be used for Oincrease in salaries or
wages of the members of the faculty and all other employees of the school
concerned" and the remaining 40 percent of any increase, for institutional
development, student assistance and extension services, and return to
investment." Not more than 12 percent of authorized tuition fee increases may go
for return on investment. Interpretation is not yet fully settled and in some
schools where labor-management relations are not the best (such as the University
of the East), teachers and staff took the position that the incremental fee
income may be used only for basic salary increases and not for increased
allowances and fringe benefits. These have resulted in a number of obvious
illogical and untenable situations, including Court awards for large sums in
backpay. In most cases, however, teachers and staff do not insist on applying
the law literally and the school's ability to pay is the basis for negotiations.



-56 -                             ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
A. Criteria for Selection of Engineering Degree Institutions
1.          The selection process was carried out at two levels, each with its
own set of criteria./l  The focus of engineering manpower development was on
the identified leading edges in industrial technology development, assimilation
and diffusion. The first set of criteria was applied to assess the quality of
the instructional programs at the engineering degree schools in the regions. The
second set of criteria was to ensure satisfactory regional dispersion and
necessitate a degree of commitment of each school to fulfil specific actions.
First Level of Selection
2.          Using TPEE Data, the EMDP Committee ranked/2 the schools based on
the following criteria of selection:
(a)   Instructional Program Quality
- Faculty (TPEE expects Z of faculty with MS
qualifications);
- Laboratories/Facilities;
- Library.
(b)   Instructional Program Quality
- Faculty (TPEE expects 2 of faculty with MS
qualifications);
/1 Other factors given consideration in the earlier stages of the selection
process were (i) Professional Board of Examination Performance of the Schools
and (ii) quality of enrollments as assessed by (a) admission policy and
entrance examinations and (b) the average NCEE cut-off scores at admission.
/2 Rating Scale:
A (5 points) - Significantly above TPEE Minimum Requirements
B (4 points) - Slightly above TPEE Minimum Requirements
C (3 points) - Satisfies TPEE Minimum Requirements
D (2 points) - Slightly below TPEE Minimum Requirements
E (1 point)  - Significantly below TPEE Minimum Requirements
Y (5 points) - With R.D. capabilities or has Relevant Graduate Program
N (0 point)  - No R.D. capabilities or no Relevant Graduate Program
Ranking Weights:
1.  Faculty            35Z
2.  Laboratory         35Z
3.  Library            202
4.  R.D. Capability    52
5.  Graduate Program   5Z
100Z



- 57 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
-  Laboratories/Facilities;
- Library.
(c)   Research and Development Capabilities
(d)   Graduate Programs
3.          At the first level of selection, the schools were selected based on
their regional performance. For all regions, except NCR, the schools ranked as
first and second were included in the list.  Since the national ranking of NCR
schools is relatively higher than other regional schools, all schools in NCR
ranked as first, second, third, fourth and fifth were included.
Second Level of Selection
4.          Regional Dibpersion.  Schools in the predominantly agriculturally
oriented regions (II, III, V & IX) were not considered. Furthermore, the number
of schools allocated per region were based on the enrollment profile per region.
5.          Validation of Selection and Confirmation of Schools Commitment to
EMDP. Visiting teams from EMDP validated the selection through actual inspection
visits to the schools. The teams also ought the schools commitment to send their
faculty members for faculty development and to facility upgrading.
B. Criteria for Eligible Engineering Program Proposals
6.          The institution, presenting the proposal must be a member of the
STCC-EMDP/TPEE approved network and the engineering department to be strengthened
should have at least five faculty and an annual admission of 30 students.
7.          The institution is committed to quality improvement of its
undergraduate engineering degree programs. Creation of new departments should be
associated with STCC's identified "leading edge" technologies.
8.          Institution has a 5 year development plan that contains the following
sub plans and targets for monitoring:
Enrollment Plan: Actual for 1985-89 and projected for 1990-95
(a)   enrollments/3 by year, level and field of study;
(b)   graduates by year, level and field of study;
(c)   internal efficiency or graduation rates by year and field of
study.
Staff Development Plan: Actual for 1985-89 and projected for 1990-95
(a)   Teaching Staff by field, level and qualifications
Recruitment Plan: No. of teachers hired by year, level and field
(a)   sources of recruitment
(b)   recruitment incentives
/3 Define term enrollment - e.g. for one semester or the total of two semesters
in a year.



-58 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
Training Plan:
(a)   Number of staff trained by year and field, duration of
training;
(b)   Proposed academic training (MS, Ph.D., Diploma Courses);
(c)   Proposed industry experience for teaching staff incentives on
satisfactory completion of training.
Curriculum Plan:
(a)   Present and Proposed Allocation of Teaching Time by field in
- Lectures - Sciences, Engineering;
- Laboratory Work;
- Field Work, Industrial Practice.
(b)   Proposed New Teaching Programs
- New Fields;
- Consolidation of departments;
- In-service courses for practitioners.
(c)   University-Industry Linkage
- Number of stuldents, Departments and Industrial Firms
Participating;
- Type of Memorandum of Agreement;
- Number of new elective courses taught by industry
representatives.
(d)   Proposed New Teaching/Learning Methods
Physical Development Plan:
(a)   Inventory of existing building, laboratories - numbers and
area, and numbers of equipment items per laboratory,number of
work stations;
(b)   Deficit in equipment and space as compared with minimum TPEE
requirements;
(c)   Targets for augmenting facilities and equipment by fields and
student enrollments. Relationship of fields to national and
region specific technology development goals;
(d)   Proposed academic space/laboratory utilization rates per week
and per semester.
Financial Plan
Management Plan
C. Criteria for Selection of Science Degree Institutions
9.          The selection process was carried out at two levels, each with its
own set of criteria. The first level concerned with selection of institutions to
conduct graduate programs (MS and Ph.D.) PCASTRD had already developed criteria
for its network of scientific R & D institutions. The second level concerned
with selection of institutions that offered B.S. degrees.
First Level of Selection (MS and PhD Programs)
10.         Using PCASTRD data, the schools/colleges were selected on the basis
of the following criteria:



- 59 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
Strength of faculty
(a)   number of faculty with MS and PhD degrees in basic sciences and
advanced technology areas;
(b)   student faculty ratio; and
(c)   ratio of full-time to part-time faculty members.
Existence of graduate programs
(a)   MS and PhD programs in basic sciences and advanceA technology
areas; and
(b)   ability to graduate students regularly of the (survivals first
year students is one noted criteria).
Laboratory equipment and library facilities
R & v thrusts
Location. Evidence of present and future industrial activity in the
area
Second Level of Selection (B.S. Programs)
11.         As most of the institutions in the PCASTRD networks are in the Metro
Manila area, the selection of non-network tertiary level schools for support of
B.S. programs (B.S. in Sciences/Mathematics and B.S. in Education - basic
sciences, general science) was based on DECS DATA using the following criteria:
(a)   Satisfactory instructional quality of existing degree
programs;
(b)   The schools either provided service courses to engineering
colleges in the PCIERD network or were identified as
Regional Science Teacher Centers with capability to handle
training programs for teachers in science education;
(c)   Adequate regional dispersion; and
(d)   Commitment of the head of the institution to improve its
science education program.
D. Criteria for Selection of Secondary Schools with Programs
in Science and Mathematics
12.         The selection process was carried out in conjunction with DECS, its
regional offices and SEI.
13.         The criteria used for selection of the High Schools were:
(a)   relative capability and potential for faculty development;
(b)   service area/sphere of influence within each region;
(c)   certified DECS Regional Leader School;
(d)   relatively good performance in various national examinations;
(e)   population of the schools;
(f)   special programs in science and mathematics education;
(g)   management commitment to improve science education; and
(h)   accessibility to a tertiary level node institution as feeder
schools.



- 60 -                               ANNEX 9
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Institutions by Region
Institution
Region
Engineering                    Science
I  Ilocos              l.Saint Louis University
IV  Southern Tagalog    2.Pablo Borbon Memorial
Institute of Technology
VI  Western Visayas     3.Central Philippine University             -
4.University of Negros Occidental-
Recoletos
VII  Central Visayas     5.Silliman University              l.Silliman University
6.University of San Carlos        2.University of San
Carlos
X  Northern Mindanao   7.Xavier University                3.Xavier University
XI  Southern Mindanao   8.Ateneo de Davao University
9.University of Mindanao
XII  Central Mindanao   lO.Mindanao State University-       4.Mindanao State
Iligan Institute Technology      University-Iligan
Institute
Technology
NCR National Capital
Region              ll.Adamson University              5.University of the
12.Don Bosco Technical College        Philippines,
13.De La Salle University             Diliman
14.Mapua Institute of Technology  6.University of the
15.Rizal Technological College        Philippine., Los
16.University of the Philippines,    Banos
Dillman                       7.University of the
17.University of the East             Philippines,
18.University of Santo Tomas          Manila
19.Technological University of    8.De La Salle
the Philippines                   University
9.Ateneo de Manila
University
lO.University of
Santo Tomas



- 61 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Proorams by Component and Year
(Staff-months)
Local ConsuLtants                           Foreign Consultants
Components                              1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total           1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total
A. Enaineerina Education
Visiting professors                                                                      24    12                   36
B. Science Education
Visiting professors
Natural Sciences                                                                 2      2      2     2      2    10
Enviromental Sciences                                                            3      6      3                  12
Subtotal B                                                                         5      8      5      2
C. Management of Technology
Visiting professors                                                                3      6      6      3           18
D. Library Networks
Expert Services                      4      4      3      2      1    14           3      2      2      1            8
E. S&T Manpower Planninq
Equip. Serv. & Repair Study          2    10       2                   14
Accreditation Study                  2    12    10                     24          2      2      2                   6
Management Information System    3          3      3      3            12
Advisory Group Services              3      3      3      3      3    15           2      2      2      2      2    10
Procurement Services                12    12    12    12    12    60               6      6      6      6     6    30
Subtotal E                          22    40    30    18    15   125              10    10    10        a     I    4S
TotaL                         26    44    33 _                  139 _ _L           L      3      :           130



In-country Training                                     Overseas Training
Number                 Staff-months                      Number               Staff-months
of                                --of 
Catponents                               Candidates    1992   1993   199.4  1995   1996   Total  Candidates   1I99  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total
................................... ... . ..........  -------------------- ----------------------  ----------  - ----------------------------------
A. Ersineerino Eduation
FMI Programs
Batch 1                                  20      140   240    240    240    100    960            20       60   240   240   240   180  960
Batch 2                                  11              77    132    132    132    473
Batch 3                                  72                    504    864    864   2.232
Subtotal                                  103      140    317    876  1.236  1.096  3.665           20       60   240   240   240   180  960
PS Programs
Batch 1                                 152    1,064  1.824  1,824  1,824    760   7,296
Batch 2                                 183           1,281  2,196  2,196  2,196   7,869                                                         rt
Batch 3                                 212                  1,484  2 544  2.544  6,572 
Batch 4                                 215                         1,505  2,580   4,085
Subtotal                                  762    1,064  3,105  5,504  8,069  8,080  25,822
Non-degree Programs                     1,080      240   480    720    840  5,400   7,680                                                          C
Sandwich Programs                                                                                   47                         132  432   564      o
Total A                                   1.945 A1,4 3.902  7.100 10,145 14.576  37.16                67       60   240   240   372  612 1.524       3
B. Science Education                                                                  _
N Zatural Sciences
PhD Progras.                                                                                                                                     nt
Batch 1                                  42      294    504    504    504    210   2 016           7       21    84    84    84    63   336   D 9
Batch 2                                  41             287    492    492    492   1,763          11             33   132   132   132  429   I w          
Subtotal                                 83      294    791    996    996    702  3.779           18       21   117  216   216  195   765
MS Programs
Batch 1                                 191    1,337 2 292  2,292  2,292    955   9,168
Batch 2                                 149           1,043  1,788  1,788  1,788  6 407                                                        u
Batch 3                                 125                    875  1,500  1,500   3 875                                                         0
Batch 4                                 110                           770  1,320   2,090                                                         o
Subtotal                                575    1.337 3335 4955 6.350  5.563  21540                                                               0
Non-degree Programs
1-year Research Fellowships               8       24    24      24     24             96                                                         n
2-month Research Fellowships              8        4      4      4      4             16
3-month Special Training                350      210   210    210    210    210   1,050
3-month Training for Lab. Techn.         50              39     39     36     36     150          20              15   15   15   15   60         0.
Subtotal                                416      238    277    277    274    246   1.312          20             15   15   15   15   60
Sandwich Program  for Phos                                                                          60                  360   360          720
Erviromental Sciences
PhD Program
Batch 1                                   9       63    108    108    108     45    432            3        9    36    36    36    27   144
Batch 2                                   7              49     84     84     84    301            2              6    24    24    24    78
Subtotal                                 16       63    157    192    192    129    733            _        9    42    60    60    51   222             OQ
NS Program
Batch 1                                  35      245    420    420    420    175   1,680           5       15   60    60    60   45  240                0
Batch 2                                  37             259    444    44    444   1,591            5             15   60    60    60   195
Batch 3                                  38                    266    456    456   1,178
Batch 4                                  38                           266    456     722                                                                W
Subtotal                                148      2      679  1.130  1.586  1.524   _ 171



- 65 -
In-coauntry Training                                   Oversess Tratning
der                   Staff-months                      luNber               Staff-months
of       ---                                            of   .   .  -------------         .     --
Caponets                                CwUidstes    1992  1993  1994  1995  1996   Total  Candidates   1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -              -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  . ... ... ...  ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
on-deg    Pr    e
3-month Speciat Trainir:                 2               3      3                     6           2             3    3                  6
Total 9                                  1.240   2.177  5.242  7.553 9.396 8.171  3Z,541            105      30   177  654  651   261 I M
C.   n t  of Techdewi
gatc  1                                                                                           3       9   36   36   36    27  14
NS Progra
latch 1                                                                                           3      21   36    15                 72 
Batch 2                                                                                           3            21    36   15           72
Subtotal                                                                                          6      21   57   51    1S           144
Total C                                                                                              9       30   93    87   51   27  288
D. L1brsrY llet ork.
47k                                        2   6
atch 1                                   2        6     24     18                    48           1       7    12    5                 24
Ibtch 2                                  2               6     24     18             48           1             7    12     5          Z4 -1
Batch 3                                  1                      3     12      9      24           1                   7    12    5   24   * 
rt
Sbtotalt                                          6     30    45    30        9     120           3       7   19   24    17    5    7i
Nh-d*ree Progrm                                                                                                                                'r
Att c    smExmchie Progrm              g0       360   360    240                    960          20       72   72   60    24    12  240   g                   W
Total D                                     3       366   390             30    29 j08              23       7991    84   41    17  312 _
E.                           Na-
Secaidrry SdiodIbirb:
Certificate/Dtptt_m Proorems
Batch t                                292   3.504  1,752                         5,256
latch 2                                292           3,504  1,752                5256
Batch 3                                253                  3,036  1 S18          4,554
Subtotat                               BY    _& 5.ZSL26 4.788  1.518             15.06 
Tertiary Modal Institutions
MT Progrs,D
Batch I                                I50      60     600   600                  1,800
Total E                                    911    4.1    S156  5.3   1.518316.86
F. SgL T e     ir P l
lln'-dree Proor
Special TraInlrw for TPEE/lPS                                                                     4       12                            12
Grad Total                          -57     1    39 20         21.I2          87.54          208      21I     1  20 1.115
WI



-64 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Procedures, Criteria and Conditionalities Used in DOST-Supported
Manpower Development Programs
A.    Procedures
1.    MS and PhD Scholarships.  Guided by the 15 "priority fields"
established by the Presidential Task Force, DOST uses its Sectoral Councils
(PCIERD and PCASTRD in the case of the proposed World Bank-supported Manpower
Development Project) to implement the S&T manpower projects in engineering and
natural sciences. Both PCIERD and PCASTRD set the specific areas in which they
will award scholarships. These specific areas are selected within the context of
the 15 "priority fields" as they relate to the specific mandate of the Council
implementing the program. Hence, PCIERD and PCASTRD support scholarships in the
following areas of concentration:
PCIERD areas of concentration:
(a) Compute-/electronics and Communication Engineering;
(b) Chemizal Engineering;
(c) Mechanical Engineering;
(d) Materials Engineering;
(e) Electrical Engineering/Instrumentation and Controls.
PCASTRD areas of concentration:
(a) Advanced Science:
- Biology/Micro-Biology
- Chemistry
- Mathematics
- Earth Sciences
- Physics
- Engineering Sciences
- Computer Science
(b) Advanced technology
- Microelectronics and Instrumentation Controls
- Information Technology
- Materials Science/Engineering and New Energy Sources
- Laser Technology
2.    Once the fields have been selected, the Councils in cooperation with
the DOST, set the number of scholarships that will be available for work in the
fields of concentrat'on. After the numbers of scholarships have been set, the
Council disseminates information on the availability of the scholarship grants,
and sets in process the review process. PCASTRD asks for applications once a
year in December. PCIERD screens twice a year.
3.    Both PCIERD and PCASTRD follow similar scholarship review processes.
This is because DOST has set overall review and screening procedures for all the
Councils to follow. The first step in the procedure is an initial screering
process by the respective council human resource development iection to check
that the administrative aspects of the application is correct and the candidate
fits the administrative criteria required for the program. Then, the application
is passed to an scholarship committee to review the applicant's academic merit



- 65 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 7
and the appropriateness of the proposed study field and degree. If at this point
the applicant has passed both the administrative and academic screening, he and
the head of his institution is informed and the applicant is asked to seek
admission to the institution which will provide his training. After this
process, the names are submitted to the respective Council's Governing Council
for final approval.
4.    Once the Governing Council has approved the scholarship awards, the
Council's human manpower development division prepares a budget, and sends the
Memorandum of Agreement to the award recipient for signature. Once the signed
Memorandum of Agreement has been returned to the Council, a check for the support
of the scholarship recipient is sent to the institution where he will take his
training.
5.    The Council monitors the progress of the scholarship -ecipient by
soliciting a copy of his registration, a preliminary plan of academic
subjects/load as approved by the adviser, copies of the academic grades he
receives at the end of each semester, thesis/dissertation outline, results of
comprehensive examination, a thesis progress report, a final report including the
diploma, final transcript, and copies of the thesis/dissertation manuscript.
6.    Non-Degree and Training Courses.  Non-degree and training courses are
offered in-house (in the DOST for instance) or in local institutions. Foreign
training grants are offered depending on their availability. Non-degree and
training courses are primarily meant to upgrade technical or administrative
skills. Again, procedures are similar across Councils and follow similar methods
to those of selecting PhD and MS scholarship candidates. Applications are
screened by an appropriate Council Manpower Development Committee (PCASTRD) or
Scholarship Committee (PCIERD). Final lists of grantee are submitted to the
appropriate Governing Council for approval. The Councils pay fees and other
incidental expenses in connection with the participation of the grantee under
this program.
7.    Thesis and Dissertation Grants.  This award is primarily awarded to
assist in the support of research related to thesis and dissertation writing. It
is offered in the form of a cash grant to applicants who work on their theses or
dissertations in local (Filipino) graduate programs. Topics which can be
supported are limited to the areas of concentration of both PCIERD and PCASTRD.
Applicants must be endorsed by both their thesis panel or advisor and the head of
the institution where they are studying. The grantees will receive a cash grant
of not more than P30,000 for the master's degree and not more that P60,000 for
the doctors degree. When the candidate completes the thesis, the grantee submits
a report of expenditures.
8.    Research Support.  Research projects are supported by DOST within the
overall framework of the 15 "priority fields" set out by the Presidential Task
Force. The DOST Central Office as well as the Councils support research grants--
in-aid. Both PCIERD, and PCASTRD use a similar process of administrative review
by the Council's application receiving unit, technical evaluation by the
Council's Technical Review Panels (and when necessary because of a lack of
expertise on the Review Panels, outside experts), initial approval by the
Council's Technical Advisory Committee which recommends approval or rejection of
the proposal. This recommendation of the Technical Advisory Panel is passed
through the Council's Executive Director to the Governing Council for



- 66 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 7
confirmation of the approval. After this last procedure, the Memoranldum of
Agreement between the Council and the unit conducting the research is prepared
and signed, the funds are released to the unit and then the Council begins
monitoring the progress of the research project.
9.    The DOST Central Office follows essentially the same path as PCIERD
and PCASTRD but asks appropriate Council's Technical Panel Review Committees to
carry out the necessary technical evaluation process. Instead of the Governing
Council making the final decisions on Central Office supported projects, the DOST
Executive Committee (made up of the DOST Secretary, Deputy Secretaries, Assistant
Secretaries, and Council Executive Directors) plays the primary role of reviewing
and recommending approval or rejection of the proposal.  The Councils then take
over the administration, monitoring and review of implementation of the progress
of the projects and prepares the final project evaluation.
B.    Criteria
10.   There are three sets of criteria for awarding funds for PhD and MS
degrees as well as other academic programs: (a) criteria used to decide on the
specific fields to be strengthened; (b) criteria used to decide which
institutions are to be strengthened by the scholarship programs; and (c) criteria
used to allocate specific scholarship awards. The following is a brief
description of each.
11.   Specific Fields to be Strengthened.  The Presidential Task Force
Report on Science and Technology Development in March 1989 recommended that a
Science and Technology Coordinating Council (STCC) undertake a program to
strengthen the development of S&T manpower to meet the demands of the Philippine
manufacturing and service sectors. In an effort to identify specific manpower
development requirements to achieve these goals, the Task Force created Technical
Panels which established specific manpower development fields within 15 "priority
fields" or sectors where development was to be focused.
12.   The criteria used in the selection of the specific areas within the
15 "priority fields" are:
(a)   Economic sectors that indicate maximum potential for
contributions to GNP within the next fifteen years.
(b)   Sectors that provide the highest value-added possible in the
conversion of raw materials to finished products.
(c)   Sectors that can compete successfully in the export market and
build up necessary foreign exchange.
(d)   Sectors that are up to the level of technology where local
scientists and technologists can innovate on processes and
products that will increase the marketability of Philippine
manufactures, particularly the export market, and enable the
country to become self-reliant in the production of consumer
and capital goods.
(e)   Sectors that improve the S&T Manpower Development Systems to
produce the mix of skills and technical capabilities for self-
sustained modernization and growth of the science and
technology sector.
(f)   Sectore that have high employment generation potential.



- 67 -
13.   Specific Institations to be Strengthened.  DOST has been
responsibility for carrying out the specific manpower development pro
rbcommended by the Task Force' Technical Panels and uses its Sectoral
Councils implement these programs. The Councils, which are made up oi
representatives of government agencies, public and private universitie
colleges, as well as the private industrial sector, have established n
institutions at which the manpower development programs will be carried
Both PCASTRD and PCIERD have established these networks.
14.   The criteria used by PCIERD to develop its network are as fo.
(a)   Demonstrated degree of academic leadership in the engir.
field.
(b)   Demonstrated excellence in the engineering fields to be
strengthened.
(c)   Regional dispersion.
(d)   degree of industrial linkages.
In addition, PCIERD relayed on the findings of the Technical Panel for
Engineering Education (TPEE) of DECS/BHE and the Philippine Association of
Schools, Colleges and Universities (PAASCU).
15.   The criteria used by PCASTRD in developing its network are:
(a)   those Philippine universities and colleges which offer the
degree in natural sciences.
(b)   those MS producin.g Philip?ine institutions which are judged
be efficient (survival of the first year students i8 one note
criteria).
(c)   DOST Research Institutes which take part in natural science
research (to be funded by the government and bilateral aid
agencies)
16.    PhD and MS Scholarships.  The PCIERD criteria awarding scholarships
scientific and technological manpower development programs are:
(a)   applicants must be from a PCIERD selected institution.
(b)   advanced training must be in one of the areas of concentration.
(C)   S&T expertise developed should be in areas of specialization
with high domestic market potential
(d)   availability of qualified trainers and appropriate training
facilities most be assured.
(e)   the program timeframe should be within manageable limits.
(f)   the program should be self-sustaining after a reasonable
buildup period.
The PCASTRD criteria for approval of PhD and MS awards are:
(a)   applicants must be from a PCASTRD selected institution and be
accepted in a degree program in a network institution.
(b)   applicants must be a BS degree holder in any natural sciences
or engineering courses relevant to the intended field of study.
(c)   applicants must not be more than 40 years of age at the time of
the award or start of the scholarship.
(d)   the candidate's study plan is reviewed for the new courses
andlor research he will undertake. Additionally, the advanced
training must be in one of the fields of concentration.



-68 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 7
(e)   the sending institution's Dean or Chancellor must endorse the
applicants's study program.
18.   Non-degree and Training Courses.  The criteria for non-degree and
training course grants are similar to those used in the awarding of PhD and MS
scholarships. Applicants must be BS degree holders, be accepted to train only at
schools or institutions identified by the appropriate Council Scholarship
Committee, submit an essay on the applicant's career and work plans, and receive
the endorsement of his unit supervisoz.
19.   Thesis/dissertation Grants.  Thesis/dissertation grants are used to
support research which is done in association with completing an advanced degree
in the advanced or engineering sciences. Therefore, it is available only to
those who are partic'pating in an MS or PhD degree program at an institution
approved by the Council's Scholarship Committee.  The applicant's proposal must
be erdorsed by his thesis advisor and the head of the institution providing the
training.
20.   Research Support.  The criteria used by PCIERD in awarding research
grants are as follows:
(a)   The S&T project should result in a marketable product(s) and/or
service(s).
(b)   preferred S&T project shall result in product(s) or service(s)
with potential impact on socio-economic development through:
- employment generation
- foreign exchange savings (import substitution)
- foreign exchange earnings
(c)   high probability of success (low risk factor) on the S&T
project in generating the desired products or services which
shall depend on:
- availability of competent S&T manpower
- availability of appropriate test and research facilities
- funding requirements being within reasonable limits
- manageable timeframe for completion of study
(d)   Contribution of the S&T project to technological advancement of
the nation in terms of upgrading S&T manpower and knowledge.
21.   The criteria used by PCASTRD in awarding research grants are as
follows:
(a)   Projects must be in the PCASTRD Areas of Concern (see 3.9 (d)
above).
(b)   Projects should help to develop a self-reliant mastery of
strategic areas of advanced science and technology.
(c)   Projects should help develop a self-generating critical mass of
R&D manpower in selected areas of advanced science and
technology.
(d)   Projects should help develop a national system of high standard
institutions in the advanced science and technology sector.
22.   The criteria used by DOST Central Office in awarding research grants
are as follows:
(a)   socio-economic impact
(b)   R&D capability of applicant
(c)   level of technology of applicant



- 69 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 7
(d)   strategic need for the R&D being applied for
(e)   likelihood of success
(f)   environmental impact
(g)   adaptability of R&D results in Philippine economy
C.    Conditionalities.
23.   Conditionality on grants awarded by the DOST is set both by
themselves, and in the cases of the use of foreign grant funds, guidelines set by
NEDA and sometime the foreign donors. Conditionality is set to encourage
compliance with the terms and conditions of the grants and are especially
important in achieving the goals of strengthening faculty resources in DOST
network schools. Not only is conditionality on the loans set to encourage return
of Filipino scholarship holders from overseas, but also to encourage scholarship
holders from the regions who study in Metro Manila universities to return to
their regional universities.
24.   PhD and MS Scholarships.  One of the important aspects of
conditionality is the amount of service that the grantee is expected to provide
his own institution once he returns form the institution which provided the MS or
PhD training. In the case of grantees who have received support for domestic
short-or long-term study, the general rule is one for one, i.e., if one has a one
year non-degree grant one serves one year, if one has a four year PhD
scholarship, one serves four years. (PCHRD requires that grantees serve two
years for every year of scholarship support.)
25.   NEDA regulations which pertain to foreign scholarships stipulate the
following formula:
less than 2 month aborad        = 6 months of government service
2 months to six months abroad = 1 year of government service
6 months to a year abroad       = 2 years of government service
1 year and less than 6 months
to 2 years               = 3 years of government service
26.   In addition to the terms and conditions set on the grantee, there are
certain conditionalities set on the home institution of the grantees. In
general, the recipient's institution shall:
(a)   pay the full salary for the grantee during the duration of the
scholarship or grant.
(b)   will keep a position for the grantee to occupy after completing
his training.
(c)   shall release the grantee from all duties and responsibilities
during the duration of the scholarship or grant.
(d)   shall assist the Council in monitoring the progress of the
grantee.
(e)   shall require the grantee to reimburse to the institution
providing the grant the total amount spent (and in the case of
the DOST/PCIERD-UP College of Engineering Project, an equity
charge equivalent to 20Z of the total amount already expended
and with interest at the prevailing legal rate at the time of
the breach of revocation of the scholarship agreement) for his
program for any of the following reasons:



- 70 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 7
(i)   transfer to another institution or agency outside the
Council's network.
(ii)  willful abandonment of the scholarship or leave of
absence without prior notice/approval.
(iii) refusal to render service to his sending institution in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract;
(iv) gross misconduct.
(v)   refusal to follow the prescribed MS or PhD coursework or
be under the direct supervision of the degree granting
program.
27.   Training and Non-degree Courses.  Conditions pertaining to grants for
training and non-degree courses appear to be the same as for MS and PhD
scholarship programs. The periods of service for DOST training scholarships as
stated in the contracts that DOST staff sign are: "no less than three years for
every year or a fractions thereof not less that two .4onths of scholarship,
training or study grant, where the scholarship, fellowship or training is for a
period of less than two months the service shall be not less than one year."
28.   Thesis/Dissertation Grants.  Conditions pertaining for thesis/
dissertation grants appear to be the same as for MS and PhD scholarship programs.
29.   Research Support.  There do not appear to be the same type of
conditionalities set on research grants as there are on individual study or
training grants. There is, however, financial oversight of the research projects
carried out by the Councils, and extensive final financial and project reporting
procedures to the fulfilled at the end of the research project.



-71 -                                ANNEX 12
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
MOT Specializations to be Developed by UPD, DLSU and AIM
MOT Specialization                          Assigned Institution
A.    Stages of Development
1.  Assessment of Needs                                 UPD
2.  Commercial Application                              AIM
3.  Economics of Technology                             UPD
B.    Functional Applications
1.  Rural                                               AIM
2.  Industrial                                          DLSU
a. High-tech
b. Low-tech
C.    Organization:  R&D Management
1.  Academe                                             DLSU
2.  Government                                          UPD
3.  Private                                             AIM
D.    Enterprise Planning                              UPD/DLSU/UPD-ISSI
E.    Creativity and Intuition                                 AIM
Note:  MOT      -    Management of Technology
UPD     -    University of the Philippines, Diliman
DLSU    -    De La Salle University
AIM     -    Asian Institute of Management
ISSI    -    Institute of Small Scale Industries



- 72 -                              ANNEX 13
P}; LIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Library Assistance by Institution and Field
ADMU   DLSU  MSU-IIT   UPD-E   UPD-S   UPLB   UPM   UST
Chemistry              X      X        X        -       X      X       -    X
Maths/Stats            X      X        X        -       X      X       -     -
Physics                X      X        -        -       X      -       -     -
Earth Science          -      -        -        -       X       -      -     -
Biology                -      -        -        -       X      X       -     -
Pharmacology           -      -        -        -       -      -      X      -
Computer Science       X      X        -        X       -      X       -     -
Chemical Eng.          -      X        -        X       -      -       -     -
Electrical Eng.        -      X        -        X       -       -      -     -
Mechanical Eng.        -      X        -        X       -       -      -     -
Met/Mining Eng.        -               -        X       -       -      -     -
Industrial Eng.        -      X        -        X       -      -       -     -
Note:  ADMU       -  Adamson University
DLSU       -  De La Salle University
MSU-IIT    -  Mindanao State University-Iligan Institute of Technology
UPD-E      -  University of the Philippines, Diliman, Engineering
College
UPD-S      -  University of the Philippines, Diliman, Science College
UPLB       -  University of the Philippines, Los Banos
UPM        -  University of the Philippines, Manila
UST        -  University of Santo Tomas



-73 -                                ANNEX 14
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
High Schools and Institutions Responsible for In-Service Teacher Training by
Region
Institutions Responsible
Region              No. of High Schools            for In-Service Teacher
Training
I                        12                     UP-Baguio
St. Louis University
Mariano Marcos State
University
II                       13                     Cagayan State University
St. Mary's College
III & NCR (North)               12                     UP-Diliman
Ateneo de Manila
NCR (South)                9                     Philippine Normal
College
De La Salle University
IV                        7                     University of the
Philippines - Los Banos
V                       12                     Aquinas University
Bicol University
VI                        6                     West Visayas State
College
UP Visayas
VII                       6                     University of San Carlos
VIII                      7                     Divine Word University
IX                        6                     Western Mindanao State
University
Ateneo de Zamboanga
X & XI                   10                     MSU-IIT
Xavier University
XI                        5                     Ateneo de Davao
University
XI & XII                  5                     Notre Dame of Marbel
College
Total                    110



- 74 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary Tables
Project Components by Year
Peso and US$ Million
Base Costs
Peso                                USS
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   TotaL   TotaL
A. Eng. Education & Research
1. Graduate/Research                15.6    98.2   199.2   108.3   114.1   535.3    19.1
2. Undergrad/Intermediate            0.0     0.2   231.0    47.5    24.3   303.0    10.8
3. Undergrad/Minimun               167.0    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7   253.6        9.1
Sub-totaL                            182.6   120.1   451.9   177.4   160.0  1092.0    39.0
S. Sci. Educ. and Research
1. Graduate Natural Sciences        22.9   257.4   251.4   153.8    98.3   783.8    28.0
2. Graduate Envir. Sciences          4.2    31.6    30.7    22.2    16.2   105.0        3.7
3. Research                          0.0   124.1    42.5    26.6    60.3   253.5        9.1
Sub-total                             27.1   413.1   324.6   202.6   174.8  1142.2    40.8
C. Management of TechnoLogy            2.8     7.8      8.9     5.6      2.3    27.5      1.0
D. Llbrary Networks                   64.1    61.2    45.7    44.4    44.6   259.9        9.3
E. Second. Sch. Science/Math
1. Second. Schools Network          35.5   158.0   100.6    21.2    19.1   334.5    11.9
2. Science Teaching Centers         27.9    62.0    12.4      7.0      7.0   116.3      4.2
Sub-total                             63.3   220.1   113.1    28.2    26.1   450.8    16.1
F. S&T Manpower Plan/Monit.
1. Information System                4.7     0.9     0.9      0.9     0.7      8.3      0.3
2. Project Management                8.2     7.2      7.2     7.2      6.3    36.0      1.3
3. Planning & Monitoring             6.0     2.2      1.5     0.0      0.0     9.7      0.3
Sub-total                             18.9    10.3      9.6     8.1      7.0    54.0      1.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                 358.8   832.6   953.7   466.3   414.9  3026.4   108.1
PhysIcaL Contingencies             37.3    85.5    90.7    26.0    21.8   261.4        9.3
Price Contingencies                37.2   160.8   282.9   209.7   258.9   949.6    13.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                  433.4  1078.9  1327.3   702.1   695.6  4237.4   130.7
Taxes                              64.1   135.4   168.3    34.7    36.1   438.7    13.8
Foreign Exchange                 279.0   594.5   783.0   299.5   294.6  2250.7    69.9
12/17/1991



totals Including Contingencies                      Tota(s Includin Contingencies
PesouS
..~~~~~~; ...........*............ ...... ;;;;.... . -----........ . .. ...  ---.  -----..  ........ .; --- ;;;................. -------
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996  totat       1992    1993    9944   1995   1996  Total
A. Eng. Education & Research
1. Graduate/Research             17.5  124.3  274.6  158.0  183.8  758.1             0.6    4.0    8.6    4.6    5.1    22.9
2. Undergrad/lntermediste         0.0    0.3  325.9   70.5   37.4  434.0             0.0    0.0   10.2    2.1        1.0   13.3
3. UndergradlMinimut            202.6   25.1    27.5   30.3   33.3  318.7            6.8    0.8      0.9    0.9    0.9   10.2
Sub-Total                           220.1   149.6  628.0  258.7  254.4  1510.8          7.3    4.8    19.6    t.6    7.1   46.5
8. Sci. Educ. and Research
1. Gr-Juate Natural Sciences     25.2   331.7   344.7  226.6   156.7  1084.8         0.8   10.7   10.8    6.7    4.4   33.3
2. Sr.duate Erwir. Sciences       4.8   40.5    41.7   32.7   26.0  145.7            0.2     1.3     1.3    1.0    0.7    4.5                i
3. Research                       0.0  162.6   58.3   39.0   100.5  360.4            0.0    5.2      1.8    1.1    2.8    11.0               0
Sub-Total                           30.0  534.8  444.8  298.2  283.2  1590.9            1.0   17.3   13.9    8.8    7.9   48.8                  0 n
C. Management of Technology          3.4   10.0   12.4    8.8    4.3   38.8             0.1     0.3    0.4    0.3    0.1        1.2          0 rt
D. Library Networks                  80.3   83.9   72.5   83.0   100.1  419.8           2.7    2.7    2.3    2.4    2.8   12.9               D c           ^
E. Second. Sch. Science/Math                                                                                                                  _0
1. Second. Schools Network       42.5  207.0  138.9   29.9   29.4  447.6             1.4    6.7    4.3    0.9    0.8   14.1               1. a
2. Science Teaching Centers       34.6   80.2   17.3   11.0   12.4  155.5            1.2    2.6    0.5    0.3    0.3    4.9               CZ o
--------------------------------------         ..............................  ,,......  .....  ....................  [A  --------u 
Sub-Total                            77.2  287.2  156.1   40.9   41.8  603.1            2.6    9.3      4.9     1.2    1.2   19.1            -W 0
f. S&T Magpower Plan/Nonit.                                                                                                                  ,. C
1. information System             5.7      1.1     1.2     1.3    1.1   10.4         0.2    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3
2. Project Management             9.8    9.4    10.2   11.2   10.8   51.3            0.3    0.3      0.3    0.3    0.3       1.6             cr
3. Planning & Monitoring           7.1     2.9    2.1      0.0    0.0   12.1         0.2    0.1      0.1     0.0    0.0    0.4
---    --------    ---------------------.   ---    ---       ... . . ------------------------------------    -----------
Sub-Total                            22.5   13.3   13.5   12.6   11.9   73.8            0.8    0.4      0.4    0.4    0.3    2.3             P
Total PPaJECTS cOSTS                433.4  1078.9  1327.3  702.1  695.6 4237.4         14.4   34.8   41.5    20.6   19.3  130.7
12/17/1991
0q
Pt



Base Costs                                 Foreign Exchange
1992      1993      1994      1995      1996     Total         X    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Overses Training
1. PhD Progrms                     5.8      25.4       53.2      53.2      26.4     164.0        97.0  159.1
2. NS Progrmn                      0.7       3.5        5.1       2.8       0.5      12.6        97.0    12.2
3. Short-Tem Training              7.1       4.6        4.6       4.2       2.1      22.7        97.0   22.0
4. Overseas San0ichProgr           0.0       0.0        0.0       7.7      25.2      32.9        97.0   31.9
Sub-total                            13.6      33.5       62.9      67.9      54.2     232.2        97.0  225.2
S. In-country Training
1. PhD Progrins                    2.6       6.5       12.8      16.4      13.9      52.2        20.0   10.4
2. MS Programs                    13.3      40.5       52.4      50.2      38.2     194.7        20.0   38.9
3. Certificate/Ditow               4.9        7.4       6.7       2.1       0.0      21.1        20.0     4.2
4. 1-Year Research Fell.           0.2        0.2       0.2       0.2       0.0       0.6        20.0    0.1
5. 2-Month Research Fell.          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.2        20.0     0.0
6. Short-Term Training             3.0        5.3       7.1       7.8       8.0      31.2        20.0     6.2
Sut-total                            24.0       59.9      79.2      76.8      60.2    300.0         20.0   60.0                                  0
C. Substitute Teach. Sal.             14.3      43.3      59.4      60.2      47.0    224.3          0.0      0.0
D. Equipment
1. Minina Standards              161.5       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0    161.5         73.5   118.7
2. Undergraduate Programs          0.0        0.0    209.8       23.3       0.0     233.1        73.5   171.4                                 C
3. Graduate Programs               0.0      233.4    241.2       31.5      10.1    516.2         73.5  379.6
4. Research (Grad/Post Grad)       0.0      112.8      28.1      10.9      40.6     192.4        73.5   141.5
5. NiscelLaneous                   6.6      50.9       79.1       0.2       0.0     136.7        73.5   100.5                                 C)
Sub-total                            168.0    397.1      558.2      65.8      50.7    1239.9         73.5  911.7                                 03
E. Books & Journals                  102.4      54.9      36.4      37.4      41.7     272.8         73.5   200.6                             3
F. Civil Works                        2.2      174.0      47.9       6.6       5.1     235.7        30.0   70.7                                  m
G. Technical Assistance                                                                                                                          0
1. Local Experts                   1.0       2.2        1.5       0.6       0.3       5.5        15.0     0.8                              ^
2. Foreign Experts                 8.3       18.5      13.5       6.4       5.1      51.7        75.0    38.8                              o   .
Stb-total                             9.2       20.8      14.9       7.0       5.4      57.3        69.2    39.6                              : 
H. Nanagemnt/Supervision              4.1        3.7       3.7       3.8       2.9      18.1        20.0      3.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              337.8    787.1    862.6    325.4    267.2   2580.1               58.6  1511.4
11. RECURRENT COSTS
i.  Incre entia OLM                   6.2       30.3      75.6    125.2      132.0    369.3         20.0   73.9
J.  Incremmntat Salaries              14.9      15.2      15.5      15.7      15.7      77.0          0.0     0.0
~~~~~~~...... -- - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- .................. ... .....
Total RECURRENT ;"-,rs               21.0       45.5      91.1    140.9    147.7    446.3            16.5   73.9
i; .................. iii -------  ---    ---- Z;i -----------------------  ------------.-...
Total BASELINE COSTS                358.8      832.6    953.7    466.3    414.9   3026.4             52.4  1585.3
Physical Contingencies            37.3       85.5      90.7      26.0      21.8    261.4          65.0   170.0
Price Contingencies               37.2      160.8    282.9    209.7    258.9    949.6             52.2  495.4
. .i . ..^.. .. .i   -- - - -- - - --. - - -- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -
Total PROJECT COSTS                 43.4    1078.9   1327.3    702.1         695.6   4237.4          53.1  2250.7
--====33t===z=====33g=======_==________==5--========  =z=:=.=5=g=S=z===S
Taxes                             64.1      135.4    168.3       34.7      36.1     438.7         0.0      0.0
Foreign Exdawe                   279.0     594.5    783.0    299.5    294.6   2250.7            100.0  2250.7
12/17/1991
w 



Totals Including Contingencies                         Totals ILnctudi   Contingencies
Peso                                                    U
........................ ...............................................................................    .................................................
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total         1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.................. .....................
A. Overseas Training
1. PhD Programs                    6.8    32.1    72.3    79.8    43.6   234.6           0.2     1.0     2.3      2.3     1.2      7.1
2. MS Programs                     0.8      4.4     6.9     4.2      0.9    17.2         0.0     0.1     0.2      0.1     0.0      0.5
3. Short-Term Training             8.4      5.8     6.3      6.3     3.5    30.3         0.3     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.1      0.9
4. Overseas Sandwich Program       0.0      0.0     0.0    11.5    41.6    53.1          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.3     1.2      1.5
.....  -- - -- - --  - -- - -- - -- - --  - -- - -     --- --  --- -- --- -- --- -- ---  -- --- -- --- --
Sub-Total                             16.0    42.4    85.5   101.8    89.5   335.3          0.5      1.4     2.7     3.0     2.5    10.1
B. In-country Training                                                                                                                               r
1. PhD Programs                    2.9      8.2    17.5    24.8    23.0    76.4          0.1     0.3     0.5      0.7     0.6      2.3            x
2. NS Programs                     15.2    50.7    71.7    75.6    63.4   276.7          0.5     1.6      2.2     2.2     1.8      8.4            t
3. Certificate/Diploma             5.6      9.2     9.2      3.2     0.0    27.2         0.2     0.3      0.3     0.1     0.0      0.9            :
4. 1-Year Research Fell.           0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.0     0.8         0.0     0.0      n.o0       0.0   0.       0 .0
5. 2-Month Research Fell.          0.0      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.0     0.2         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
6. Short-Term Training             3.4      6.6     9.7    11.8    13.3    44.9          0.1     0.2      0.3     0.3     0.4      1.3
..----------  ..-.--  -..-.--------...----------.--    ------------------------------     ------------------    0rt_
Sub-Total                             27.4    74.9   108.4   115.7    99.8   426.2          0.9      2.4     3.4     3.4      2.8    12.9         > m
C. Substitute Teach. Sal.             15.0    50.0    75.5    84.1    72.3   297.0          0.5      1.6     2.4     2.5      2.0     9.0         I' 0
D. Equipmnt                                                                                                                                          l
1.  inimam Standards             196.8      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   196.8         6.6     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      6.6         C  X
2. Undergraduate Programs          0.0      0.0   295.9    36.2      0.0   332.1         0.0     0.0      9.2     1.1     0.0    10.3             TQ
3. Graduate Programs                0.0   306.2   340.2    49.0    17.3   712.6          0.0     9.9    10.6      1.4     0.5    22.4             0
4. Research (Grad/Post Grad)       0.0   148.0    39.6    17.0    69.5   274.1           0.0     4.8      1.2     0.5      1.9     8.4          C
5. Miscellaneous                   8.0    66.7   111.5       0.2     0.0   186.5         0.3     2.2      3.5     0.0     0.0      5.9        I* *
-- - - - -- - - - -  *i ---- --- --- ---- --- ----              --- -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -
Sub-Total                            204.8   520.9   787.1   102.4    86.8  1702.1          6.8    16.8    24.6      3.0      2.4    53.7
00'
E. Books & Journals                  129.3    79.9    61.1    74.3    97.7   442.2          4.3     2.6      1.9     2.2      2.7    13.7           '
F. Civil Works                         2.6   226.2    68.0    10.3      8.7   315.7         0.1     7.3      2.1     0.3      0.2    10.0
G. Technical Assistance
1. Local Experts                   1.2      2.9     2.1     0.9      0.5     7.5         0.0     0.1     0.1      0.0     0.0      0.2
2. Foreign Experts                10.0    24.2    19.0    10.0       8.7    71.9         Z.3     0.8      0.6     0.3     0.2      2.2            '
Sub-Total                             11.2    27.1    21.1    10.9      9.2    79.5         0.4     0.9      0.7     0.3      0.3     2.5
H. anagement/Supervision              4.8      4.8     5.2      5.9     4.9    25.7         0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.1      0.8
Totai INVESTIENT COSTS              411.2  1026.2  1211.8   505.4   468.9  3623.5          13.7    33.1    37.9    14.9    13.0   112.6
11. RECURRENT CoSTS
... . . . . . .
A. Incremental o0                      6.5    35.1    95.8   174.8   202.6   514.9          0.2      1.1     3.0     5.1      5.6    15.1
B. Incremental Salaries               15.6    17.5    19.7    22.0    24.2    99.0          0.5     0.6      0.6     0.6     0.7      3.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                22.1    52.7   115.6   196.7   226.8   613.9           0.7      1.7     3.6     5.8     6.3    18.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                 433.4  1078.9  1327.3   702.1   695.6  4237.4          14.4    34.8    41.5    20.6    19.3   130.7                   I
12/17/1991                                                                                                                                                o 2



- 78 -
ANNEX 16
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
STEERING COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN           - DOST SECRETARY         ADVISORY GROUP
STOC           CO-CHAIRMAN         -DECS SECRETARY            CHAIRMAN (PHIL)
PRIVATE U-NIVERSITIES     2 PHIL EXPERTS
REPRESENTATIVE          2 INTER. EYPRTS
MEMBERS             PRIVATE SECTOR
REPRESENTATIVE
- DBM UNDERSECRETARY
- NEDA DEP. DIR. GENERAL
- DECS UNDERSECRETARY
FOR S&T
MEMBER AND         - PROJECT DIRECTOR
COMMrrTEE SECRETARY
I  COA  .       F    cPICO                             MIS
| AUDIT  |          PROJECT DIRECTOR               PLANNING AND
DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR            EVALUATION
TECHNICAL WORKING GROUPS                               OPERATIONS GROUPS
PCIERD......DECS/PEE            [     CONTN
ENGINEERING PROGRAM  |---1DC/PE| |                ACND FINANCGE 
L ~~PCASTRD                                         T  ECHNICA| fl
lSCIENCE PROGRAM    ....   DEslp                ASSISTANCE . 
|   SEI                                EQUIPMENT AND
SECONDARY       ......        _DECS           URARY
SCIENCE PROGRAM        ,            ,          MATEnIALS
{   _    ~~TAPI        ll                           CML WORKSL
MrT PROGRAM



- 79 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Proiect Advisory Group
Draft Terms of Refarenc-
Background
1.        The Departmert of Science and Technology (DOST) will embark on a
major science and technology (S&T) manpower development project in support of
the Government's plan to strengthen the country's industrial technological
capability. The World Bank will collaborate with the DOST by financing a
large part of the project costs. The project seeks to improve graduate and
undergrade programs in priority fields of science and technology at selected
public and private universities and also to upgrade science and math education
at selected secondary schools. It will be implemented between 1992 and 1996.
To help oversee project implementation and provide technical advice to
Steering Committee (SC), project's decision-making body, DOST will appoint a
Project Advisory Group (PAG) in consultation with the World Bank.
Membership and Contract Period
2.        The PAG will be chaired by a Filipino expert selected from the
Philippine S&T community and will include two additional members of the
Philippine S&T community representing both public and private universities,
and natural sciences and engineering. In choosing the Filipino members, links
to industry should be given high priority. The remaining two members of the
PAG will come from the international S&T community and include a
representative in natural sciences with extensive experience in university
teaching and research, and a representative in engineering from an engineering
university with strong links to industry. It is desirable that the
international members be chosen from candidates who are from or who have wide
experience in countries similar to the Philippines in their S&T
infrastructure. All members of the PAG should be prominent 3cientists,
engineers, or educators at home and abroad with experience in management of
educational and research processes.
3.        The PAG will serve for the full period of project implementation.
Individual PAG members will initi%lly be appointed for two years with the
possibility, after review, of extended service through the completion of the
project. PAG members are expected to familiarize themselves with the general
implementation procedures of World Bank-supported education projects.
Responhibilities
4.        Areas of the PAG's responsibility will include advisory and
evaluation functions as follows:
a) The PAG will advise the SC on:



- 80 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 3
, - the current state of international and domestic S&T developments,
especially as they impact on university education and research;
-    the structure and content of curricula for university S&T programs
as well as science and math programs for secondary schools;
-    the moat recent advances in scientific instrumentation,
computational equipment and software, as well as making
recommendations on equipment procurement;
i - the progress of project universities and schools, and issues that
might arise during the course of project implementation. Issues
may concern the project objectives and targets related to faculty
development, institutional management and facility utilization in
project universities and schools. In particular, the PAG will
review annually performance on key indicators, including those for
Engineering Education, Science Education, and Teacher Training as
spelled out in Annex 5 of the SAR;
-    appropriate programs of international exchanges including faculty
exchanges, joint research opportunities, placement of graduate
students, i'nstitutional twinning atrangements, and linkages with
industry both within the Philippines and abroad.
b) Additionally, in carrying out its evaluation responsibilities, the
PAG will:
-    after each full PAG meeting, submit a report to the SC containing
its findings and recommendations, with a copy to the World Bank.
-    prepare a mid-term report on the statis of project implementation,
highlighting areas of good progress as well as areas requiring
close follow-up, and submit the report to the SC with copies to the
World Bank;
-    assist the DOST in evaluating the project at its completion,
submitting a final evaluation report to the SC with copies to the
World Bank.
Workilan
5.        The Philippine members of the PAG will devote approximately five
vweks and the international members approximately four weeks annually to
undertake advisory work for the SC.
6.        The full PAG will meet twice a year, in approximately June/July and
December/January. Additionally, Philippine members of the PAG will meot
separately tv ce more annually. Meetings will be called by the PAG chairman.
7.        The PAG will make site visits to an appropriate sample of project
universities and secondary schools at least once a year to review progress in
project implementation, identify any important emerging issues, and provide



- 81 -
ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 3
appropriate advice to the SC. The PAG may also visit industrial firms as
needed. These visits will take place at the some time as the regularly
scheduled PAG meetings.
8.        DOST's Project Implementation and Coordination Office will serve as
a secretariat to provide necessary administrative and logistical support for
all members of the PAG.



- 82 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Disbursement                       Disbursement  Semesters
IBRD                                   Cumulative    Profile (%)        from
Fiscal Year    Semester    Cumulative        as % of      Asia Region   Approval
and Semester -       (US$ million)----        total        Education       Date
1992
1st            0.0          0.0            0%              0%           1
2nd            2.0          2.0            2%              3%           2
1993
Ist            5.0          7.0            8%              6%           3
2nd            6.0        13.0            15%              6%           4
1994
1st           10.0        23.0            27%             14%           5
2nd           14.0         37.0          44%              22%           6
1995
1st           15.0        52.0           61%              34%           7
2nd           13.0        65.0            80%             46%           8
1996
1st            9.0         74.0           87%             58%           9
2nd            6.0        80.0            94%             70%          10
1997
1st            3.0        83.0            98%             74%          11
2nd            2.0        85.0          100%              82%          12
1998
1st                                                       90%          13
2nd                                                       94%          14
1999
1st                                                       98%          15
2nd                                                      100%          16
Closing Date: June 30, 1997



o            0            0                          co           0
, 9~~~~~~-o-- --- ---:-:------ ------ 
@ 4D .            . .  . .  . .   . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .I . . . . . . . 
_ ^ - II,  ....  ....... C
\ --                                                          ----------------
B          _    _X,                                                       ', ::::
mI              -. ..                       ......................            .......
m c                 w ^ cb  - _.. ......           ..                   ............
(A~~~C
m
In          -    -                          ......... .  . .--   -  - -    - .  .  .  .  .
@ C1 a@- _~~~~ ............   .......                                                  
. o _ b ~~~~~~~-                                    ....-  - -     - -    - -    -     - -    -     - \-    - -  -
40 ~ ~     ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1U
fi                                                                    0 sC"  . 
o .6                    - -    - - - -    - - -                                 . . . . . . ... :::
................                                          .......           .  ,          \
~~~ ~-              - -   -  -  -   -  -  -  --   --&-          -   -   .   .  .  .
--------- .......:. ....... 
*                                            ;. .               .o..
C         -~   ~   -   -  -  -  --   -  -   -    - - -  -
U   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
.............................  ...eq                               I
0 0



PHILIPPINES
ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Prolect Processing and Implementation Schedule
Calendar Years                   CY91            cr92             CY93       |     CY94            CYf              CY96            CY97
JFMIM  JJASI 0D0 JFN ANJ JAS IO ADJFN J JAS IOND JFBM AJ JAS 04D| JF  ANdJ JAS OD40 JFNIA|J JASIOND JFNjANJ JASIOND
[ORD Fiscat Years (July to June)         FY92             F F       I    FY94              FY 5            FY 6             fl         I
Philippine Fiscal Years          FY91             FY92            FY93             FY94            FY95             FY96            FY97
CJawtary to December)
Preperat ion
Preappraisal
Appraisal                        '(3/91)
Negotiations                                 12/91)
Board Presentation                          *(1/92)
Effectiveness                                   '(4/92)
PREP YEAR       PROJ YR.1        PROJ YR.2       PROJ YR.3        PROJ YR.4       PROJ YR.5
(      -      ,  =======- = =,==       - =====) <=======   )=======   =======
Major Implementation Tasks
Training: USS22.9 millio n                      1.4              3.8             6.1              6.4              5.2
(22.9)                             (1.4)            (3.8)           (6.1)            (6.4)           (5.2)
Training Period                                e
Euiment: USS53.7 million                        6.8             16.8             24.6             3.0              2.4                                         co
(38.3)                            (0.2)           (13.7)          (20.0)            (2.5)           (1.9)
Procurement  Plan        ......   ...  ...   ............   ...          ...  ............  ............  ............
s    nter L i sts       ...n...     MEN  ............   ...   ............   ...     ...   ............   ...   ...   ...   .......
Grouping/Pstkaging                  ... ... m_    .           ..  ... ... _  .    ... ... _  .    ... ... ... ... ... ...
Specs & Bidding Does                             ...........              .  ... ... _   ... ... ... _    ... ...... .........
Bidding/Eval/Awards    ............ ............                          ......          ... . _     I   ..... ... ...
Placement of Orders &  elivery .... ...... ...            _   _  *   _   _   _  *   _   _   _  ... _   _   _ 
Testing & Acceptance  |         ...-                                      *-- ..  ..  .. .. ..  ..     *-  *- .  ..  Mm
8ooks/Journals: US$13.7 million                 4.3              2.6              1.9             2.2              2.7
(13.7)                       (3.5)           (2.1)            (1.5)           (1.8)            (2.2)
Procurement Plan       *...         ... .. . ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Select Suppliers        ...     ...  .   .. _  ......           ... _  ... ....     ......       . _   ... ...........
Title Identification   ..  .. ...   ..m .. _                                      .    M ...  .. .         ...... _    _.
Placement of Orders    ............ MEN..   MEN ...... I                      -......  _ _ ... .........   _ _
Delivery Period         ............ ...M            ........ __    Sol m_ ...  __ - _                 ... ... _
Civil Vorks: USS10.0 oil ion                    0.1              7.3              2.1             0.3              0.2
(10.0)                          (O.1)          (6.9)            (2.0)           (0.3)            (0.2)
Plaming/Budgets         ... _          .     ... _     .      ... _  .        ... _  .         ... _  .        ............
Prep. of Projects     ....                       m       __     ...m ... ...              .                      .  _ .  _ 
Review of Proposals    .m.. ...- _                 . Ml .    .. ...                     ... .. M   ....  _.  _. 
Approvals               ............. .. .. ..  .. 
CinsingtEvut/APards    ... ... ... ...   M ... ... ...       ...  ... ... _  ... ... ...       .  ... ...      ... ... ...
ConstructiEnaPerio      ............ ...dIM                          IE... __ __      _ __*
technicas Pristanced.    2    ;.4 millin        0.4              0.9             0.7              0.3              0.2
2.4)                 (0.4)            (0.9)            (0.7)           (0.3)            (0.2)
Services Period         .....  ... ... ..                 __          _ __            _ _          __ _            _
Project Completion: December 1996                                                                                     (12/96)*
Closing Date: Juie 1997   |                                                                                                   1(6/97)*
Note:  Figures in parentheses indi0hte respective  'unts to be financed by the Ba.



- 85 -                            ANNEX 20
PHILIPPINES
ENGINERRING AND SCIENCE EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1.    Science and Technology Master Plan (DOST, July 1990)
2.    Policies, Standards and Guidelines for Engineering Education (TPEE/DECS,
April 1988)
3.    Policies and Standards for Basic Sciences (DECS, December 1989)
4.    Science Education Development Plan, Volumes I and II (DECS, November 1985)
5.    The Macro-Plan for Engineering Education in the Philippines (DECS,
October 1990)
6.    Directory of Engineering Schools, (DECS, May 1989)
7.    Annual Report of the S&T Coordinating Council, 1989-90 (STCC, 1991)
8.    DOST Annual Report, 1990 (DOST, 1991)
9.    Feasibility Study on S&T Manpower Development Program (DOST, July 1991)



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23074
"IO                                                                                   124'                                       12 
ENGINEERNG AND SaENCE EDUCATION                                                          PHILIPPINES
INSTITUIONS BY REGION                                             ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE
CORDIUERA ADOMNISTRTIAVE REGION (CAM                                             EDUCATIODN  PROJECT
I Sa,nt Loi. Uoio-ir..y
20-  1   CAGAYAN VALLEY                                                                                      ENGINEERING
11   ENTRAI.LUZON                                                                                    EGNEtGISIUIN
CENTV 50UTHERNTAGALON                                       8ATANEsS                               SCIENCE INSTITUTIONS
IV SOUrNERN TAGALOG
2   Pbl. Ek-b- M.-a]                                                 ~~~~~A  DOST
In.titutr of Tbochnao9oy                                                                  *     DS
V    SICOL                                                                                         9    DECS
V IWESIIRN VISAYAS                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
3  C.nMral Philippin. Unn.i-..iy                                                                   RI
4  U-v.r=.Iy of N.ro.(                                                                             REGION BOUNDARIES
Ool -nIlR.col to-
VII CENT     SAYAS                                                                                -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5  Sill-n Un1v-r--iy                                                    T.g-aoroo
*  Uni-u.lity of San Carlo-                                 CAR
I; ,,.,,    g rv:lr t8/ r  IOLOMETERS 0                                                               100       200       300
Son F.,nondI0                                   MILES 0       50      100     150     200
v III EASTEB' ViSAYAS                                    o.
IX   WESTERN MINDANAO                                                                                                                      16'
X    NORTHEFN MINDANAO
7  Xcm..r U-v.rsiy
14XI-- .,                                            N              ,,1 1  L U  Z CO  tS
Xi  SOUT1HERN MINDANAO                                     FLUZOdN
8  Atrn.o d.D.avUni   ny 1d1 12 1U3-1415
9  Uni,.,.ity of M.ndon-                      1'6 173 8 '9    S
XII CENTRALMINDANAO                                        NCR
10  Mrd..Stat. Unr.r~.11y                                                                  V
11,9- Irtitnte of Techn-A/gy
4 19\gg X1r1r .. .......  Z.  . S.faz. U'r'  .......... sr- * ....  * 2       >                 CATANDUANES
NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION (NCR)
1  Adans-on Univorhly                                                                       oL..go.p
12  Don, Bo-o Tchn.kic  Colle.                                   IV
13 Du La Sall. Uni-orily                          MINDORO
4  MapA a In.t.tuto of Tochn-a1cgy
15  Ri.al To-hnoloaicol Co1.g9.                                                                         SAMAR
1 6T.,hno.ical Un-oiryof
t h. Philipp'...                                                                                           VIII
17Unn.-iy of Ph.I.ppiI,I., Diln,-
I1  Uni,,rn.y of Santo To-a--
19  Uni--r.ity of tho Ea.t                                          VI    PANAY                             0.b
,A-e -- i M.a -I.U   sw.e/\_                                                                               Tco
6   )-  , ; 1- U  Z                                                         3UmOO 3r4?lod                LEYTE
'  D; n l S  t F Pt ' 1   -                                                                CEBU
13  br 8,    ......                   PALAWAN
9 nr1.1n           1 * . n                                         V I S A  Y    S  UPu
S OHOL
NE   OS
L\ t.A                                   xiunn  t
t'ILPPNE                              lo h.fiea cert
11ACA0UK                                                                        xii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,0n
PORI    m,: h- b- p,*pwodI D,NAO
UK.                     XnIImlThWld k a.0   usd  /
PH-IILIPPINES  f Ih. --4  olf Edm
-d h *.,lo1y1 fo, tl.q
n1.ap The l . d World- BtE
IAET  ~~~~~~~~~~n~.~tT~d o iPiKUt
NAAA  OLUNE              P~~oyj on of WM g.Gp,SL
dy-~~~           torI, bo,odro,o, , 0
NOO 0N FSI A
120'                                          124'                                           26
lOVe-ENAE 1991)



