                                                                                  38182
                 Progress Report to the Board of Executive Directors
              on the Implementationof the Management's Action Plan
             inResponseto the Inspection PanelInvestigation Report on
 the Cartagena Water Supply, Sewerage and EnvironmentalManagement Project




Introduction

       On June 24, 2005, the Inspection Panel submitted its Investigation Report No.
32034-CO on the Cartagena Water Supply, Sewerage and Environmental Management
Project to the Board. On July 29, 2005, Management submitted its Report and
Recommendations in response to the InspectionPanel's Investigation Report. Chapter V
of the Management Report contained an Action Plan proposed to follow up on the
Panel's findings, for further strengthening o f the Project. This Action Plan i s presented
inAnnex 1.

       On November 8, 2005, the Board discussed the Inspection Panel Investigation
Report and Management's Report and Recommendations in Response to the
InvestigationReport. The Board endorsedthe Action Plan proposed by Management as
an adequate response to the Inspection Panel's findings, requested to proceed with
project implementation while implementing, in parallel, the proposed Action Plan, and
asked that Management report back on the progress in implementing this Action Plan.
The Board also asked that Management resolve with the Panel outstanding questions on
the importance o f and the carrying-out o f three-dimensional modeling o f the risk of
contamination at the outfall site.

       The present report i s aimed at providing information to the Board regarding the
progress inimplementingthe Action Planproposedby Management, and the discussions
with the Inspection Panel regarding three dimensional modeling.

Progress Achieved on each Activity of the Action Plan

       The following table provides information on the implementation o f the Action
Plan.

                              - 2 -


             ProgressinImplementingthe Action Plan
                    (as of September4,2006)

ISSUEIFINDING PROPOSEDACTION          IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS
              OD4.01 -EnvironmentalAssessment

                                     - 3 -


lSSUE/FINDING    PKOf'OSED ACTION          IMPLEMEN'I'A'llON PROGRESS
Risk of        Inresponseto the Panel's    ~   ~    ~   grccommendedthat t
                                                            e   ~    e   ~
Diapirisn (mud suggestionandgiven the      ACUACAR carry out a side scan
volcanism)     utility m d relatively low  sonarsurvey. ACUACARhired a
               cost of sucha survey,       consultant and carried out the side-
               Nmagement has               scan sonar study. The study was
               recommendedthat             completed by April 2006. As part
               ACUACAR undertakea          o fthe study the consultant
               side scan sonar survey.     discussedthe results with another
               ACUACAR plans to carry      marine geologyexpert. ACUACAR
               out the surveyby            also discussedthe report with the
               December 3I,2005.           consultant that carried out the
                                           original diapirism analysis, to
                                           obtain hisopinion and
                                           recommendations.As a result of the
                                           study and consultations,
                                           ACUACAR decidedto changethe
                                           routeo fthe outfall so as to further
                                           redwe diapirismrisks. The project
                                           consulting engineer, E-frlzenand
                                           Sawyer, has completcd thc
                                           correspondingadjustmentsto the
                                           outfall des@.

                                  - 4 -




Disposalof   Inresponse to the Panel's  A comprehensive study o fanalysis
Solids       finding, AGUACAR will      of"alternatives for disposal methods
             carry out an analysis of   ofthe screened nlatei-ial was
             alternative disposal       completed and submitted to thc
             methods for the screened    Rank in Febnrary2006. The study
             material. AC'IJACAR plans concluded that the method sclcctcd
             to submit the completed    undcr thc project is the best
             analysis to the Bank by    alternative for disposal of the
             December 31,2005,          screened material.

- 5 -

                                     - 6 -


ISSUEYE'INDING     PROPOSEDACTION             IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS
Social Impact  The pipedwater, under         The water supply system to the
Assessment and construction, is plannedto    north zone was completed andthe
Benefitsfor    be deliveredto the North      northzone ~ o ~ ~ u I i arei e ~
                                                                        i t
Afro-Colombian Zone communitiesprior to      receiving potablewater o fhigh
Communitiesin  or during the last quarter o f quality, continuously 24 hours per
the North Zone 2005. These investments        day, 365 days per year as ofAu&?jst
               were originally to be          2006. This refers not only to Punta
               financed by the District,      Canoa, Manzanillo, Arroyo de
               accordingto the Loan          Piedraand LaBoyuilla butalso to
               Agreement. Dueto Project       other communities inthe North
               cost savings, these            Zone. The users in Punta Canoa
               investmentswill now be         have receivedin-houseconnections
               financed by the Loan,          free ofany infixstructure or
               freeing up municipal           connectioncharge.
               budget for other uses.         174in-house sanitation units were
               Moreover, as part ofthe        installedinLa Boyuilla axid 141in
               Pro-ject,in-house sanitation ManzaniXlodel Mar, InPunta
               i s underconstruction in La    Canoa, in-house sanitation units
               Boquillaand Mmzanillo          were installed in f 80 homesby
               del Mar, a~idunderbidding August 2006. An additional 30
               for PunfaCmoa,where            homesare to receive services,
               delivery is projected for      where the families originally did
               April 2006.                    not want to participate inthe
               La Boquilla has already        program, but have since changed
               beenconnectedto the            their minds after seeingthe benefits

               sewer network.                 provided to the other 180homes.
               ACUACAR has committed The in-housesanitation units have
               to extendthe network to        enabled inthe households of Punta
               PuntaChnoa, Manzanillo         Cmoa and Mamanillo del Mar to
               del MarandArroyo de            evacuatetheir wastewater to septic
               Piedrain the next 24           tanks as o f September 2006. In
               months, inparallel with the Punta Chnoa, all residents now
               construction o fthe outfhll.   havecontinuous water supply and
               PuntaCanoatias confirmed       are connected to septic tanks: they
               its interest in a Cotnniunity  enjoy full water supply and
               Center, which is plannedto     sanitation services.
               beprovided by April 2006.      The community center in
               A plant nursery has been       Manzanillo del Marwas completed
               establishedinPuntaCanoa,       inJune2004. The community

               to be managed                  center of L a Roquilla was
               cooperatively by the           completediiiSeptember 2006.
               cornniunity, to createjobs     ACUACAR ran into difficulties in
               and supply trees to the        identifying an appropriate lot with
               Project.                       legal title for purchase for the site
                                              o fthe PuntaCanoacommunity
               Supervisionwill focus on       center. This problem was recently
               the early delivery ofthe       resolvedand the lot was purchased.
               benefits under the social      The designofthe center has been
                                                    *    .    * .                 ...

- 7 -

                                       - 8 -


ISSUEi'FINDING       PROPOSEDACTION            1MPL.EMENTATIONPROGRESS
           OP 10.04 -Economic Evaluationof Investment Operations

Economic          Managementwill update
Evaluation of     the results of the ccoiiomic
AIternatives      analysis to take into
                  account the additional
                  investments requiredby the
                  ciivironmcntai license that
                  would needto be
                  operational in2015, and
                  adjust landvalues.

                          OD4.15 Poverty Reduction




                     OPlBP 10.02 - FinancialManagement

                                               - 9 -


      ISSUEYFINDING         PROPOSEDACTION              IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS




ThreeDimensionalModelingof the Impactofthe Submarine Outfallon Sea Water
Contamination

        A t the Board discussion o f the Panel's findings and Management Response, the Board
requested that Management and the Panel propose to the President within four weeks a decision
on use o f a 2D or 3D model for assessingdiffusion patterns and shoreline concentrations related
to the submarine outfall. After the Board meeting on November 8, 2005, a meeting was held
between the Inspection Panel, Panel consultants, the project team, and representatives o f
ACUACAR. It was agreedthat ACUACAR would undertakethree-dimensional modeling o f the
outfall discharge using the model developed by the Panel consultant, with an estimated time o f
one month to carry out the analysis. A team was hired to carry out the three-dimensional
modeling.    The team consisted o f Prof. Philip Roberts, who carried out the earlier two-
dimensional modeling o f the discharge, and Beatriz Villegas, a graduate student o f the Panel's
consultant. These agreementswere reportedto Mr.Wolfowitz on December 6,2005.

The three-dimensional modeling effort took five months longer than anticipated; however, it
yielded results pertinent to the discussion.     The results o f the modeling were sent to the
InspectionPanel on August 11, 2006. As an additional effort to assure the optimal design, the
project team contracted additional modeling work by a researcher of the University of
Karlsruhe, using an alternative three-dimensional model. Both three-dimensional modeling
efforts confirmedthat the 2.85 kmlong submarine outfall i s adequate for the Cartagena project.




Status ofProjectImplementation

                                               - 10-



The Project consists of eight components:

    0  Component A. Expansion o fthe Water Supply System;

       Component B.Expansion o fthe Sewer System inthe Ciknaga Basin;

    0  Component C. Construction o f the Main Conveyance System o f the Wastewater to the
       Treatment Plant;

    0  Component D. Constructiono f Treatment Installations;

       Component E. Constructiono fthe Submarine Outfall;

    0  Component F.IndustrialWastewater Discharge Control;

       Component G.Environmental and Social Component; and

       Component H. Project Management, Technical Assistance, Studies, Design and
       Supervision o fWorks.

    The Project has been effective for approximately six and a half years. As o f August 31,
2006, 56 percent o fthe Loan had been disbursed. The works of Component A (Expansion o f the
water supply system) and Component B (Expansion o f the sewerage system in the Cihaga
basin) have been completed. All the respective contracts have been closed. Components F, G
and H are well advanced, and will continue for the entire implementation period, as planned.
The water supply works for the North Zone, originally the responsibility o f the District o f
Cartagena, have been constructed and funded by the Project, due to savings achieved in the
implementationo f Component A. The North Zone now receives continuous water supply.

    The implementation o f Components C, D, and E, which constitute the wastewater
management system, including the submarine outfall, has suffered delays due to the lengthy
authorization o f an environmental license for these works, an unsuccessful bidding process that
has required rebidding, and delays in contracting pending the findings o f the Panel and the
subsequent three-dimensional modeling. The works under these three components have been
divided into four contracts: (i) Paraiso pumping station; (ii) onshore pressure pipeline;
                                 the                               the
(iii) wastewatertreatmentplant; and(iv)thesubmarineoutfall.Contracts(i),(ii) (iii)
    the                                                                                   and
have been awarded and are under construction. Contract (iv) is inthe process o f bid evaluation;
four bids were received on September 20, 2006 and opened on the same day. Technical
evaluation and validity o f the received bids i s underway and is expected to be sent to the Bank
for no objection in late December 2006. It i s expected that works will begin, as anticipated, in
January 2007. The current Loan closing date i s June 29, 2007. It i s expected that the closing
date will be extended by at least one year to complete project implementation.

    Due to the delay in Project implementation and the continuous flow of poor immigrant
families to Cartagena, thirty-seven families settled during2000-2003 on District property on the
planned route o f the onshore pressure pipeline, near the Paraiso pumping station. Although

                                              - 11-


resettlement activities were not expected during Project preparation, it i s now necessary to
resettle twenty-four of these families due to construction o f works. A Resettlement Action Plan
was prepared and disclosed in accordance with Bank policies. New homes have been
constructed and will be officially delivered to the families on December 20,2006, at which time
the families will be resettled, incompliance with Bankpolicies.

Next Steps

        Management has taken action on all items inthe action plan, and action plan follow up
hasbeen substantively completed.

        As noted inthe Action PlanTable, there are two pendingactivities: (i) installationof
                                                                               the
30 in-house sanitation units inPunta Canoa for those residents which changed their mind after
seeing the benefits provided to other residents; and (ii)  the completion o f construction o f the
Punta Canoa community center inearly 2007 as a result o f delays ingettinglegal title for the lot
purchased.

        As part o f routine Bank supervision, the Bank will continue: (i)oversight of the quality
o f ACUACAR's outreach activities; (ii)    review and filing o f L a Previsora's (the Trust Fund
Administrator) annual audit reports; and (iii)    confirmation with CARDIQUE (the regional
environmental authority) that ACUACAR is fulfilling the conditions o f its environmental
license.

        Based on the implementationo f the management actionplan, the requested consultation
with the Panel on modeling of the outfall discharge impacts, the positive results of additional
actions taken, and the submission o f this report, Management proposes taking no further action
on this matter.

                                      - 12-


                                   Annex 1

  ProposedManagementAction Planas PresentedintheManagementReport and
   RecommendationsinResponseto the InspectionPanel's InvestigationReport

                           ManagementAction Plan
   ISSUEiFINDING                         PROPOSEDACTION
                   OD4.01 -EnvironmentalAssessment




Risk ofDiapirism  Inresponseto the Panel's suggestionaxid giventhe utilitymd
(mud volcanism)   rdativcly low cost of such a survey, ~ a n a ~ eh;zse ~ t
                                                                       ~
                  recommendedthat ACUACAR undertakea side scan sonar
                  survey. ACUACAR plansto             aut the surveyby December31,
                  200s.

Overland Pipeline
Design




DisposalofSolids  In responseto the Panel's finding, ACUACAR will carry out an
                  analysis of alteniittivc disposal methods for the screened matcrial,
                  ACUACAK plansto submit the completed analysis to the Bankby
                  Dccember3I,2005,

Project Impactson
I,ocallyAffected
Communities-
Fishing

                                      - 13 -


                             Managenletit Action Plan
SocialImpact      The pipedwater, under construction, is plannedto be delivered to
Assessmentand      the North Zone communiticsprior to or duringthe last quarter of
Benefitsfor Afro- 2Q05.These investnientswere originally to be financed bythe
Colombian         District, accordingto the LoanAgreement. Dueto Project cost
Communitiesinthe savings, these investmentswill now be financedby the Loan,
North Zone         frceing upmunicipalbudget for other uses, Moreover, as part of
                  the Project, in-housesanitation isunder construction inLa
                  Boyuilfaand Mmz,anillo delMar, andunder bidding for Punta
                  Canoa, where deliveryi s projected for April 2006. La Boyuillahas
                  already been connectedto the sewer network. ACUACAR has
                   committed to cxtendthe network to PuntaCanoa, ManzaniXlodel
                  Mar and Arroyo de Piedra inthe next 24 months, inparallelwith
                   the construction ofthe outfall, PuntaCama has confirmed its
                   interest ina Community Center, which is plannedto be provided
                   by April2006. A plant nurseryhas been establishedinPunta
                  Canoa, to bemanagedcooperatively by the corximunity, to create
                  jobs and supplytrees to the Project. Supervision will focus on the
                  early delivery ofthe benefits under the social program.

                                      - 14-




          OP 10.04 -EconomicEvaluationof InvestmentOperations

Economic           Management will update the results ofthe economic analysis
Evaluationof       to take into account the additional investments requiredby the
Alternatives       environmental license that would need to be operational in
                   2015, and adjust land values.

                         OD 4.15 Poverty Reduction

Poverty Reduction Pertinent actions arc covered above under Project Impactson
                   Locally Affected Cotnmunities .- Fishingand Social lriipact
                   Assessment and Benefits for Ako-Colombian Communities in
                   the NorthZone.

                   OPlSP 10.02 Financiat~ a ~ a ~ ~ r n e ~ t
                                  -




                                    OTHER

International      CARDIQCE, the regional cnvironmcntal authority, is
Agreements         responsible to nioriitor the conditions and the obligations ofthe
                   environmental liccnsc that it has granted to ACUACAR. As
                   part of its routinesupervision, the Rank \vi11 confirm that
                   ACUAC'AR is fulfilling conditions ofthe liccnsc.

