                                                          38248
                                          Report No. INSP/R2005-0003



 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
          International Development Association



                                                      INSP/32034-CO




MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

                IN RESPONSE TO THE

 INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT




                      COLOMBIA

CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND
  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                 (LOAN NO. 4507-CO)




                       July 29, 2005

              MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
  IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
                                         OF THE
        COLOMBIA ­ CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND
                  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                 (LOAN NO. 4507-CO)




Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD Resolution
93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by Executive Directors is
Management's Report and Recommendation in response to the findings set out in the
Investigation Report No. 32034-CO dated June 24, 2005, of the Inspection Panel on the captioned
Project (Cartagena Water Supply, Sewerage and Environmental Management Project, Loan No.
4507-CO).

               MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                                          IN RESPONSE TO THE
         INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 32034-CO

                                                    COLOMBIA
                 CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND
                    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                            (LOAN NO. 4507-CO)



                                                       CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................................ iv

List of Operational Policies and Operational Directives .................................................... v

I. Introduction ..................................................................................................................... 1

II. Project Status.................................................................................................................. 1

III. Findings and Recommendations of the Panel............................................................... 3

IV. Key Issues..................................................................................................................... 4

V. Management's Action Plan.......................................................................................... 12

VI. Conclusion.................................................................................................................. 14


Maps

Map 1.      IBRD 33298 ­ Current State of Contamination by Sewage (without Project)
Map 2.      IBRD 33299 ­ Effect on Contamination by Sewage (with Project)


Annexes

Annex 1.        Findings, Comments and Actions
Annex 2.        How and Why Outfalls Work
Annex 3.        Commentary on "Analysis of the Proposed Waste Disposal System: the
                Submarine Outfall" (Annex B of the Inspection Panel's Investigation
                Report, June 2005)
Annex 4.        En Breve (May 2003), Colombia: Expanding Services to Low-Income
                Areas




                                                              iii

Colombia



             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACUACAR        Aguas de Cartagena, S.A. E.S.P.
CARDIQUE       Corporación Autónoma Regional del Canal del Dique
               Regional Autonomous Corporation of the Dique Canal
               (regional environmental authority)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CCH            Corporación Cartagena Honesta
EA             Environmental Assessment
FS             Feasibility Study
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
INVEMAR        Instituto de Investigaciones Marinas y Costeras (Marine
               and Coastal Research Institute)
IPN            Inspection Panel
IPU            Impuesto Predial Unificado (Unified Property Tax)
OD             Operational Directive
OP             Operational Policy
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PMR            Project Management Report
POE            Panel of Experts
SIA            Social Impact Assessment
USD            United States Dollar
WHO            World Health Organization
WTP            Willingness to Pay


                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2005)
               Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                  CP 2,337.50 = USD1.00




                              iv

                                                Management Report and Recommendation




         LIST OF OPERATIONAL POLICIES AND OPERATIONAL DIRECTIVES

OD 4.01           Environmental Assessment, October 1991

OP/BP 4.04        Natural Habitats, September 1995

OP 4.07           Water Resources Management, July 1993

OD 4.15           Poverty Reduction, December 1991

OD 4.20           Indigenous People, September 1991

OP/BP 10.02       Financial Management, August 1997

OP/BP 10.04       Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations, September 1994

OD/OP/BP 13.05    Project Supervision, January 1996 and July 2001, respectively




                                        v


                                     I. INTRODUCTION

1.      On April 22, 2004, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ04/02 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the Colombia-
Cartagena Water Supply, Sewerage and Environmental Management Project ("the
Project") financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD). The Request was submitted by the Corporación Cartagena Honesta (CCH,
hereafter referred to as the "Requesters") on its own behalf and on behalf of 125 residents
of Punta Canoa, 139 residents of Arroyo de Piedra, 41 residents of Manzanillo del Mar,
and 119 residents of Cartagena.

2.      The Executive Directors and the President of IBRD were notified by the Panel of
receipt of the Request. Management responded to the claims in the Request on May 21,
2004.

3.      In its Report to the Board, the Panel found the Request eligible and recommended
that the Executive Directors authorize an investigation. The investigation was authorized
by the Executive Directors on July 13, 2004.

4.      On June 24, 2005, the Panel issued its report outlining the findings of the
investigation. Management appreciates the Panel's clear and thorough presentation of its
findings.

5.      This report, responding to the findings of the Panel and including Management's
Action Plan, is organized in several sections. Section II briefly describes the Project and
provides an update on Project status. Section III summarizes the findings and
observations of the Panel. Section IV provides additional background information on
several key issues. Section V presents the Action Plan and Section VI contains the
conclusion. A detailed matrix containing the Panel's findings, along with Management's
responses, is provided in Annex 1. Annexes 2-4 contain supporting materials.

                                   II. PROJECT STATUS

6.      The Project. The Cartagena Water Supply, Sewerage and Environmental
Management Project was prepared during the period 1995-1999, and approved by the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors in July 1999 (Loan No. 4507-CO). The total Project
cost is USD117.2 million, which is financed by USD85 million in an IBRD Loan, with
contributions of USD4.6 million from ACUACAR (Aguas de Cartagena, the water
company), USD7.6 million from the District of Cartagena and USD20 million from the
Government of Colombia. Three legal agreements are pertinent to the Project. The Loan
Agreement with the District of Cartagena (the Borrower) specifies that the District will
make the proceeds of the Loan available to ACUACAR, the Project implementing entity,
with whom the Bank signed a Project Agreement. A Guarantee Agreement with the
Republic of Colombia guarantees the payment obligations of the Borrower. All three
agreements were signed in December 1999. The Project became effective in January
2000.

7.      The Project consists of eight components:


                                              1

Colombia


    · Component A. Expansion of the Water Supply System;

    · Component B. Expansion of the Sewer System in the Ciénaga Basin;

    · Component C. Construction of the Main Conveyance System of the Wastewater
        to the Treatment Plant;

    · Component D. Construction of Treatment Installations;

    · Component E. Construction of the Submarine Outfall;

    · Component F. Industrial Wastewater Discharge Control;

    · Component G. Environmental and Social Component; and

    · Component H. Project Management, Technical Assistance, Studies, Design and
        Supervision of Works.

8.      Project Status. The Project has been effective for approximately five and a half
years. As of July 15, 2005, 42.4 percent of the Loan had been disbursed. The works of
Component A (Expansion of the water supply system) and Component B (Expansion of
the sewer system in the Ciénaga basin) have been completed. Most of the contracts have
been closed and some are due to close in August 2005. Components F, G and H are well
advanced, and will continue for the entire implementation period, as planned. The water
supply works for the North Zone, originally the responsibility of the District of
Cartagena, are now under construction, funded by the Project, due to savings achieved in
the implementation of Component A. These works will be completed prior to or during
the last quarter of 2005.

9.      The implementation of Components C, D, and E, which constitute the wastewater
management system, including the submarine outfall, has suffered delays due to the
lengthy authorization of an environmental license for these works and an unsuccessful
bidding process that has required rebidding. The works under these three components
have been divided into four contracts: (i) the Paraiso pumping station; (ii) the onshore
pressure pipeline; (iii) the wastewater treatment plant; and (iv) the submarine outfall. A
first round of bidding for the four contracts was carried out in 2004. The price of the
lowest evaluated proposal for contract (ii) was lower than the engineers' cost estimate
and the bidding process was considered successful. The prices of the lowest evaluated
proposals for contracts (i), (iii) and (iv) were much higher than the engineers' cost
estimates and these bids were voided. Rebidding was carried out for contracts (i) and (iii)
and has been completed successfully, the prices of the lowest evaluated proposals being
less than the engineers' cost estimates. The documents for rebidding of contract (iv) are
under preparation and the process is expected to begin in September 2005. The original
closing date of the Loan was June 30, 2005; due to the delays resulting from the late
authorization of the environmental license and the lengthy bidding processes, however,
the closing date has been extended to June 29, 2007 to accommodate the duration of the
contracts.



                                             2

                                                               Management Report and Recommendation


10.      In the North Zone, a piped water system is under construction and will be
delivered to the communities of Punta Canoa, Manzanillo del Mar and Arroyo de Piedra
by September 2005. In-house sanitation is under construction in La Boquilla and
Manzanillo del Mar, and under bidding for Punta Canoa, where delivery is projected for
April 2006. La Boquilla has already been connected to the sewer network. ACUACAR
has committed to extend the sewer network to Punta Canoa, Manzanillo del Mar and
Arroyo de Piedra in the next 24 months, in parallel with the construction of the outfall.
ACUACAR, with participation of the communities, plans to complete a study on
strengthening fishing activities in the North Zone communities, by September 2005. This
study, which draws on the 2003 Project financed study by INVEMAR (Marine and
Coastal Research Institute), will identify specific activities to further optimize fishing
opportunities. ACUACAR will support a program, using project funds, to strengthen
fishing activities based on the results of the study. A plant nursery, financed by
ACUACAR, has been established in Punta Canoa, to be managed cooperatively by the
community to create jobs and supply trees that need to be planted in the Project area, in
compliance with the conditions of the environmental license.

11.      Due to the delay in Project implementation and the continuous flow of
immigration of poor families to Cartagena, thirty-seven families settled during 2000-2003
on District property on the planned route of the onshore pressure pipeline, near the
Paraiso pumping station. Although resettlement activities were not expected during
Project preparation, it is now necessary to resettle these families. A Resettlement Action
Plan was recently prepared and will be disclosed in accordance with Bank policies. The
families are expected to be resettled by end 2005.

                    III. FINDINGS AND OBSERVATIONS OF THE PANEL

12.      The Panel made the following findings regarding Bank compliance with its
policies and procedures in relation to the issues raised by the Requesters:

                                OD 4.01 ­ Environmental Assessment
                  - Project screening and categorization
                  - Initiation of Environmental Assessment (EA) at early stage in Project cycle
                  - Analysis of alternatives ­ coverage of alternatives
                  - Use of Panel of Experts (POE)
In compliance     - Consideration of alternatives and mitigation measures for land conveyance system
                    (routing, pumping stations and treatment plant locations)
                  - Monitoring program
                  - Compensation for some potential impacts
                  - Consultation efforts with people in Cartagena
                  - Demonstration of systematic comparative study of all alternatives, in particular
                    alternatives other than the submarine outfall

Not in compliance - Consideration of alternatives for disposal of solids
                  - Social evaluation and mitigation of potential impacts on local communities in North
                    Zone
                  - Consultations with affected communities in area of submarine outfall
                                       OP 4.04 ­ Natural Habitats
In compliance
                               OP 4.07 ­ Water Resources Management
In compliance




                                                   3

Colombia



                                     OD 4.20 ­ Indigenous Peoples
                   - Because of absence of two policy criteria, failure to regard Afro-Colombians as
In compliance        Indigenous Peoples "may not be deemed as noncompliance with the `judgment'
                     called for in OD 4.20, para 5"
Not in compliance  - Consultation with "specialized anthropological and sociological experts"
                                 OP/BP 10.02 ­ Financial Management
                   - Project financial and accounting statements

In compliance      - Financial management assessment ­ ACUACAR
                   - Financial capacity ­ ACUACAR
                   - Risk of default on the Bank Loan
Not in compliance  - Financial management assessment for the District
                   OP/BP 10.04 ­ Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
In compliance      - Economic analysis broadly in compliance
                   - Recalculation of costs of submarine outfall alternative in light of licensing requirement
                     for primary treatment in ten years

Not in compliance  - Quantification of tourism benefits
                   - PAD presentation of the economic analysis (cost benefit and sensitivity and risk
                     analyses, distributional analysis and data reliability)
                   - PAD demonstration of Project consistency with Bank's poverty reduction strategy
                                     OD 4.15 ­ Poverty Reduction
                   - Attention to risks and concerns of North Zone communities
Not in compliance  - Assessment of potential impact of Project on use of resources for other poverty
                     reducing investments
                                 OD/OP/BP 13.05 ­ Project Supervision
In compliance      - Bank supervision of ACUACAR
Not in compliance  - Acceptance of audit reports per requirements of the Loan Agreement



13.      In addition to the findings of compliance or non-compliance with various parts of
the Operational Directives (ODs) and Operational Policies (OPs) cited above, the Panel
made a number of observations in order to assist in "furthering the development of a
sustainable and equitable waste disposal system." These observations concerned the
design of the outfall and the overland pipeline, impacts on and consultation with North
Zone communities, the Social Impact Assessment (SIA), economic costs of alternatives
and ways to have addressed financial management in the District of Cartagena. Detailed
information is provided in Annex 1.

                                           IV. KEY ISSUES

14.      This section provides additional background information related to the
Management Action Plan discussed in Section V below.

Wastewater Disposal ­ An Environmental and Health Crisis in Cartagena

15.      The lack of sewage treatment facilities in the District of Cartagena causes serious
threats to the environment and human health. Under the Project, increased collection,
treatment and adequate disposal of sewage in the District will significantly diminish
environmental health risks faced by the population as well as reduce the pollution of
water bodies surrounding the city. Moreover, the sanitary disposal of wastewater is a key
measure to reduce conditions of poverty among the urban poor. About 85 percent of
Cartagena's population of approximately one million inhabitants is classified as low and



                                                    4

                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


medium-low income, of which nearly one-third is extremely poor. The city is a
destination for rural Colombians displaced by violence in the countryside and looking for
better economic opportunities. Cartagena's water and sanitation infrastructure has not
kept pace with its population growth of about 2.5 percent per year.

16.     The water bodies surrounding the city have become repositories of untreated
municipal and industrial liquid wastes and are heavily polluted. About 30 percent of the
untreated wastewater is discharged into Cartagena Bay, another 60 percent goes into the
Ciénaga de La Virgen (an in-city coastal lagoon, hereafter called the Ciénaga) and 10
percent flows into water courses that traverse the city. Overflows from overloaded sewers
contaminate the beaches and add to the pollution of the in-city water courses, while liquid
and solid wastes from the industrial estate area further contaminate the waters of
Cartagena Bay.

17.     A population of approximately 400,000 residing in the poor neighborhoods
around the Ciénaga and in part of the southwestern zone adjacent to Cartagena Bay
suffers from the worst sanitation conditions; because of the lack of sewers, raw sewage
flows in the streets. In addition, open storm water drainage canals carry sewage from
other parts of the city across the poor neighborhoods on their way to the Ciénaga. As a
result, Cartagena's poor population is exposed to about 60 percent of the city's untreated
sewage. These deficient sanitary conditions affect the heath of all and especially of
children. Intestinal parasites and other intestinal infections are among the ten top causes
of morbidity.

18.     Projections indicate that Cartagena will more than double its sewage generation
(to about 300,000 cubic meters per day) by 2025. Without adequate waste disposal, the
situation will become disastrous. In addition to direct impacts on the population, public
health, sanitation and environmental problems will continue to pose a serious constraint
to economic development, especially in the tourism sector, which is a main income
source in Cartagena.

19.     As outlined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (section C3, page 9) the
Project aims to bring public health benefits in terms of sanitation services especially to
the city's poor and marginal areas. In the poorest neighborhoods (San Jose de Los
Campanos, El Pozón, Villa Estrella, La Boquilla, Paseo Bolívar, Zona Suroccidental and
Zona Suroriental sub-basins, which currently discharge their sewage to the Ciénaga),
approximately 80,000 people will directly benefit from investments in improved
sewerage and increased water supply coverage. However, even in areas where sewers
have already been installed, it is not possible to use these networks until there is adequate
disposal. With the installation of the selected disposal alternative ­ the submarine outfall
­ the Project will reduce public health risks, especially for the poor, and pollution city-
wide.

20.     The Project's environmental benefits can be appreciated by comparing the current
situation, prior to improvements in wastewater disposal, with the situation after
construction of a wastewater conveyance system, treatment installation and submarine
outfall. Map 1 shows the water bodies currently contaminated by raw sewage close to the



                                              5

Colombia


shoreline and the urban areas contaminated by sewage flowing in open storm water
drainage canals in the streets. Map 2 shows the situation after construction of the
wastewater management works, according to Colombian standards for water quality for
primary and secondary contact.

21.     As detailed technical studies and modeling efforts have shown (see Management
Response to the Request, May 2004 and Annex 1 herein), the Project's benefits can be
achieved without adverse impacts on communities of the North Zone. The alternative of
preliminary sewage treatment and effluent disposal through a long, submarine ocean
outfall offshore of Punta Canoa poses negligible risk to the health of the communities or
to marine life at or near the outfall site (see Annex 1, Item 5). In addition, the Project
contains specific actions as part of a Social Impact Mitigation and Community
Development Program that will benefit North Zone communities, including in-house
sanitation packages, connection to the sewer network and provision of water services. See
Annex 1, Item 13, for additional detail.

22.     Management will continue to work with ACUACAR to strengthen the outreach
program and communications to the North Zone communities. This continuing outreach
program aims to address those communities' perceptions of adverse impacts and explain
further the overall benefits in which the communities will share both as residents of the
North Zone and as commuters to and workers in the central part of the District.

Selection of the Wastewater Management Alternative for Cartagena

23.     Process of Evaluating Alternatives. The process of selecting the proposed
wastewater treatment and disposal alternative for management of the wastewater of
Cartagena was comprehensive and based on a widely accepted methodology. The result
was the selection of an alternative combining preliminary treatment and a deepwater
submarine outfall discharging effluent to the Caribbean. This alternative was the lowest
cost, reliable, simple-to-operate solution to address the serious need for wastewater
treatment in a city of approximately one million people that has no sewage treatment.
Other alternatives would have been more costly and would not have yielded greater
benefits.

24.     To identify the appropriate least cost wastewater disposal solution, the multi-
phased approach included a Feasibility Study for Wastewater Treatment and Disposal in
Cartagena (FS), containing the analysis of alternatives (Hazen and Sawyer, 1998);
Environmental Diagnostics of Outfall Alternatives for the Disposal of Wastewater in
Cartagena (Hazen and Sawyer, 1998); the Social Impact Assessment of the Cartagena
Sanitation Project (Vasquez and Baquero, 1998); and the EA for the Wastewater
Management Plan of Cartagena (Fundación Neotrópicos, March 1999). (See Annex 1,
Item 3, for the number of alternative treatment options, sites for an outfall, types of pipe
material, outfall pipe diameters, land conveyance routes, and different diffuser depths
evaluated in the FS.)

25.     These studies were supplemented by evaluations from an internationally
recognized independent POE, which reviewed the FS, EA and final design specifications



                                             6

                                                                  Management Report and Recommendation


for the marine outfall, as well as ongoing studies after Project approval in July 1999. The
POE held extensive discussions during six meetings of 2-3 days each during which it
provided input to the FS and detailed design. All major decisions regarding the selection
of the wastewater treatment and disposal alternative were endorsed by the POE, and the
detailed design was also reviewed and endorsed by the POE.

26.     Rejected Alternatives. Currently, Cartagena's raw wastewater flows untreated
into Cartagena Bay and the Ciénaga de la Virgen. The wastewater flowing into Cartagena
Bay heavily contaminates the bay and poses risk to the coral reefs located south of
Cartagena. If the bay were to continue to be used to dispose of Cartagena's sewage, the
wastewater would require costly, tertiary treatment1 for removal of nutrients (nitrogen
and phosphorus) and pathogenic organisms. A tertiary level of wastewater treatment
would also be required prior to discharge to the Ciénaga. Consequently, the Bay and the
Ciénaga are not viable options as the receiving bodies of Cartagena's wastewater.

27.     In the early 1990s, the proposed wastewater management scheme for Cartagena
entailed treatment of wastewater in oxidation lagoons and discharge of the effluent into
the Ciénaga (from which it would eventually reach the sea). This was not considered an
appropriate long-term solution for Cartagena for several reasons. Effluent discharge to
the Ciénaga would cause eutrophication of its water and damage to the mangroves
growing around it (tertiary treatment would be needed to prevent eutrophication).
Wastewater treatment in oxidation lagoons is difficult to control if the biological process
collapses or the lagoons become overloaded; large oxidation lagoons such as those
proposed for Cartagena could become a problem for a large tourism and resort city. A
lagoon scheme would also have substantial land requirements. Finally, the cost of treating
Cartagena's wastewater in oxidation lagoons and discharging the effluent to the Ciénaga
was found to be higher than the cost of the selected alternative.

28.     Reuse of sewage effluent to irrigate crops was also not viable. Because there is
abundant fresh water from the Canal del Dique, there is no demand for irrigation water in
the area. Furthermore, there are additional treatment and other infrastructure costs to be
borne and there is no institutional framework capable of handling such a system. The
selected alternative of a submarine outfall does not exclude reuse of wastewater for
irrigation in the future.

29.     Selected Alternative. The selected alternative consists of pumping the raw
wastewater from the Paraiso pumping station (see Map 1) to a plant where preliminary
treatment of the wastewater occurs, and discharging the effluent to the sea offshore of
Punta Canoa via an outfall 2.85 kilometers long and 72 inches in diameter, at a depth of
20 meters.



1Sewage treatment levels are classified as preliminary, primary, secondary or tertiary. Preliminary
treatment consists of removing coarse solids, floating materials and oil and grease by screening the
wastewater and passing it through a grit removal chamber. Primary treatment removes settleable solids
from the wastewater through the use of sedimentation tanks. Secondary treatment employs biological
processes for removal of dissolved organic matter and fine solids from the wastewater. Tertiary treatment
employs chemical processes and additional biological processes to further improve effluent quality.


                                                     7

Colombia


30.      The decision was made to utilize, during a first phase, preliminary treatment of
the wastewater prior to its discharge to the outfall, coupled with an extensive monitoring
program. A combination of preliminary treatment with an effective outfall is considered
by the World Health Organization (WHO, 2003) to pose a low risk to human health. This
alternative also meets Colombian and international standards. Primary treatment would
have added about USD40 million to the cost of the Project and secondary treatment
USD100 million. The selection was made partly because of cost, and partly because
additional treatment beyond preliminary would not provide incremental benefits.2

31.      Oceanographic studies were used to determine the best discharge site. The site
offshore of Punta Canoa, which is located about 20 kilometers north of central Cartagena,
was selected because the sea bottom slope is steep there, so the length of an outfall that
reaches deep water is only 2.85 kilometers. Although Punta Canoa is located at the
greatest distance from the center of Cartagena, the closer sites considered have gentle
bottom slopes and would have required a much longer outfall (of about 9 kilometers) to
reach deep enough water. The combined cost of the onshore and offshore/underwater
pipes was lowest for the site offshore of Punta Canoa. Potential impacts on fishing
examined in the EA concluded that biological activity in the outfall location was non-
existent and that risks to the marine environment beyond the immediate discharge area
are negligible. As explained further in Annex 1, Item 12, while fishing is important for
many households in North Zone communities, the fishing practices of the communities
are such that the fishers' livelihoods are not expected to be affected by the location of the
outfall.

32.      After selection of the outfall (1998) as the best disposal alternative, extensive
oceanographic studies were carried out over a period of four years (1998-2002), to ensure
that sufficient reliable data were available for the design of the outfall and other
installations of the selected alternative.

33.      Water Quality Impacts of Marine Effluent Discharge. Ensuring that effects of
effluent discharge on receiving waters are minimal requires that concentrations of
bacteria, viruses, toxic substances, and other contaminants be reduced to safe levels,
products of the effluent (organic carbon, nutrients, etc.) and dissolved oxygen
concentrations in the sea be maintained within allowable limits, and local particulate
deposition not be excessive. The plume also must not be visible on the water surface.
These requirements can be met by a suitable combination of outfall and diffuser location,
effective dispersion and dilution of the effluent, and treatment level. If a diffuser causes
rapid dilution and dispersion of effluent and is positioned so that transport of the
discharged wastewater to critical areas (especially the shoreline) is minimized, only a
preliminary level of wastewater treatment is needed. Efficient mixing of the discharged
effluent and the sea water, resulting in dilution exceeding 100:1, can be achieved within
the first few minutes after discharge. This reduces concentrations of organics and
nutrients, which are characteristic of sewage, to levels that have no adverse ecological
effects.


2Notwithstanding the decision regarding the first phase level of treatment, there is a commitment, through
the environmental license, to put primary or equivalent treatment in place by 2015.


                                                     8

                                                          Management Report and Recommendation


34.     Public health is protected by an effective design and location of an outfall so as to
reduce levels of pathogenic organisms to meet established bathing beach water quality
criteria. The required orders-of-magnitude reductions in the concentrations of pathogens
are achieved through physical dilution and mortality of pathogens in the hostile ocean
environment. As demonstrated by numerous studies, properly designed ocean outfalls
discharging domestic wastewaters do not cause significant ecological impacts or public
health risks.

35.     Treatment versus Outfall Length. Coastal wastewater disposal is often posed as a
choice between treatment and use of an outfall. This is a false dichotomy, as treated
effluent is ultimately disposed of through an ocean outlet or to inland rivers that
eventually flow to the sea, except in the infrequent cases of reuse or injection of effluent
into saline aquifers. WHO (2003) has recently provided a comparison of the risks to
human health from exposure to sewage for various disposal options (reproduced in
Management's Eligibility Response as Table 3), which demonstrates that an effective
submarine outfall has advantages over near or short outfall discharges, even when those
discharges have primary, secondary or tertiary treatment. The WHO information also
shows that discharge through an effective outfall with only preliminary treatment has low
risk, and increasing the level of treatment does not substantially lower the risk.

36.     For example, an initial dilution of 100:1 (this corresponds to a 99 percent
reduction in contaminant concentrations) achieved by an outfall such as the one proposed
is beyond the capabilities of conventional secondary treatment for removal of organics
and nutrients. The diffuser mixing is, therefore, usually more important than treatment.
This mixing can reduce pathogens to levels comparable to or better than those achieved
by chlorination of secondary effluents. Furthermore, biological treatment processes are
subject to upsets that can result in direct onshore or near-shore discharge of raw wastes.
Discounting structural outfall failure (rarely encountered in modern designs), such
discharges could not occur with the use of effective, offshore outfalls. These systems can
also be designed to handle large seasonal variations in sewage flow resulting from the
presence of transitory populations in tourist areas.

Economic Analysis

37.     Economic analysis was one of several instruments used in Project design. It
helped determine the best way to meet the Project objectives and assessed each
component independently to ensure that all had a net positive impact; the results were
subject to risk and sensitivity analyses to verify their robustness.

38.     The overall analysis and results derived from two studies, with additional analysis
by ACUACAR and Bank staff. First, as part of the FS carried out by Hazen and Sawyer,
a detailed alternative analysis of the disposal system and the respective treatment option
was conducted. The alternatives were subjected to a least cost analysis taking into
account economic, technical, environmental and social criteria. The analysis concluded
that the discounted net present value of the selected alternative (which is a submarine
outfall with preliminary treatment, with land conveyance and pumping station at Paraiso)
was about USD50 million less than the next best alternative, land application (reuse for



                                              9

Colombia


irrigation with preliminary treatment, plus marine outfall for use when irrigation is not
occurring), and about USD65 million less than the alternative of oxidation lagoons
(which achieves secondary treatment of the wastewater flow in oxidation lagoons and
subsequent discharge of the effluent to the Caribbean Sea through a marine outfall).
Second, the wastewater disposal solution identified in the FS and the proposed design for
other Project components were then subject to detailed economic and financial analyses
conducted by a specialized consulting firm (Soluciones Integrales), ACUACAR and
Bank staff.

39.     These analyses aimed to improve Project design. They were used to prioritize
investments to be financed by the Bank, ensure a minimum net positive impact and
eliminate investments for which the estimated return was below the 12 percent economic
cut-off rate. The analyses included a discussion of non-monetary benefits, considered the
Project from the financial, economic and distributional aspects, assessed the poverty
impacts and externalities and included sensitivity and risk analyses. The analyses
concluded that the Project would provide substantial benefits to the District of Cartagena
and to the overall Colombian economy, with a net present value of over USD8 million at
the time of appraisal and an internal rate of return of 16 percent. The sensitivity and risk
analyses confirmed that these results were robust. See also Annex 1, Item 24.

40.     The studies yielded a conservative estimate of results, in line with best practice.
The analyses quantified only those benefits associated with elimination of rationing and
intermittent supply, and increases in service coverage for the case of water. Willingness
to pay (WTP) for improved hygienic and environmental conditions resulting from sewage
collection and treatment was estimated using a contingent valuation method. Tourism
benefits were noted in the PAD. Given that the Project was already yielding a positive net
present value, a conservative approach was used and the economic benefits associated
with tourism, which are largely indirect and subject to significant uncertainty, were not
quantified for use in the analysis. For further discussion of this issue, see Annex 1, Item
23.

41.     Capturing the richness of this analysis and its impact on Project design in the
PAD posed a challenge for the Bank team. The analysis was thorough and was
effectively used to select the most appropriate investment alternative to reach the Project
objectives. It relied on extensive and lengthy studies; the analysis in the FS and the study
prepared by Soluciones Integrales total over 200 pages. Background studies in many
areas of Project preparation, from environmental assessment to financial management,
were similarly voluminous. In the interests of brevity, the presentation in the PAD
summarized the analysis and results, and in doing so did not present fully the analysis
undertaken.

Project Management Structure and Financial Sustainability

42.     Similar to the efforts undertaken to select the best technical solution to the
District's wastewater problems, the Bank team assessed and designed what has proven to
be an effective institutional and financial structure for the Project. The District of
Cartagena is the Borrower for the Bank Loan financing the Project, with the Government



                                             10

                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


of Colombia providing a guarantee. The authorities and Bank staff were well aware of the
District's financial performance, including the need for strengthened financial systems
and improved collection performance of the District's unified property tax (Impuesto
Predial Unificado, or IPU). As such, the Bank carried out due diligence during Project
preparation and appraisal to ensure the financial management and audit arrangements of
the Project would be consistent with Bank procedures and practice.

43.     The earlier decision to create ACUACAR as a mixed capital company with
greater independence from the District's overall operations and finances ­ implemented
with Bank assistance to the sector ­ in part reflected this concern over the District's
finances. The detailed assessment and financial projections of the District, including risk
analyses, were carried out during Project preparation. The main conclusion of the
assessment was that the Project and associated Loan needed to be reduced in size to be
compatible with a sustainable financial position of the District's finances. Like other
cities in Colombia, Cartagena relies on large and predictable transfers from the national
government as part of a revenue sharing fiscal system. The Bank's analysis focused on
two important financial issues: the District's ability to provide the agreed share of
counterpart funding in a timely way to carry out the works as planned, and later its
financial ability to meet its share of the debt service associated with the Bank Loan.

44.     To ensure the Project's viability, the source of funds for counterpart financing and
loan repayment was designed to come from three streams: (i) national transfers; (ii)
royalty funds; and (iii) IPU. Funds were to flow to a Trust Fund administered by an
acceptable financial entity, in this case, La Previsora, which was already handling many
other government programs and financing mechanisms. The first two sources of funds
had a record of being stable and predictable and formed a large part of the funds required.
The funds from the IPU were set at 18 percent of total collections. The risks of funding
shortfalls from the IPU were judged to be low since the IPU's share of the Project's
financing accounted for only 3 percent of the District's overall income.

45.     By making ACUACAR an independent utility with private sector capital,
ownership and management, and through the design of the flow of funds to the Project
from different sources, the Bank's standards for appropriate due diligence were met.
Dealing with Cartagena's overall financial framework and performance was not
fundamental to achieving the objectives of this infrastructure project. For a municipal
management loan, however, improving the District's finances could be an important
objective.

46.     The positive actual results in the financial management and status of the Project
(more than adequate capitalization of the Trust Fund, and adequate reporting) confirm the
Bank's judgment and approach. As part of Project supervision, the Bank has engaged an
expert to review the financial position of the District and IPU performance on an annual
basis. While IPU revenues were initially less than had been expected at appraisal, the
strengthening of the value of the Colombian peso resulted in an increase in dollar terms
of the funds deposited to the Trust Fund. The last two annual reviews by a Bank
consultant concluded that the Trust Fund was overcapitalized, and suggested a reduction
in the level of contribution. Using a conservative approach, the Bank did not act upon this



                                              11

Colombia


recommendation, since the Project's final costs were not yet known. Moreover, in 2004,
the District made major progress on collecting arrears of the IPU, consequently reducing
its other, non-Bank debt to nearly zero and further strengthening its financial position.
Counterpart funds have already been fully provided by ACUACAR and the District, and
the Government of Colombia has provided more than 90 percent of its share. This is a
considerable achievement, since the Bank Loan is less than half disbursed. Additional
information is provided in Annex 1.

Summary

47.     The selected disposal alternative provides significant benefits of improved
sanitation to a city of one million people who are mostly poor and currently suffer from
unacceptable sanitation conditions. The disposal of the wastewater via the submarine
outfall offshore of Punta Canoa was found to be the most cost-effective solution to
Cartagena's wastewater problems. Environmental and social analyses demonstrated that
this alternative could be achieved without significant adverse effects on the environment
or the affected population. In sum, it is Management's view that the Project's technical,
economic, financial, environmental and social analyses have demonstrated that the
Project will achieve significant public benefits with a high rate of return, without
significant environmental or social risks and in a fiscally sustainable manner.

                            V. MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN

48.     Management appreciates the Panel's findings of broad concurrence with Bank
policy in key areas such as coverage of alternatives analyzed, the use of a POE, the
monitoring program, consultation with the people of Cartagena, and indigenous peoples.
Management also welcomes the Panel's observations on specific areas for further
strengthening the Project. The following table presents the action plan following up on
the Panel's findings.




                                            12

                                                              Management Report and Recommendation



                                   Management Action Plan

   ISSUE/FINDING                                    PROPOSED ACTION
                           OD 4.01 ­ Environmental Assessment

Proposed Design of    In view of the concerns expressed by the Panel, the Bank has requested the
the Submarine Outfall expert who prepared the second two-dimensional validation model to re-run
                      the model and incorporate the influence of wind patterns. The Bank will also
                      request that ACUACAR hire an international expert to provide a third and
                      independent opinion on the two-dimensional models contracted under the
                      Project and the detailed review presented in Annex B of the Panel's report.

Risk of Diapirism     In response to the Panel's suggestion and given the utility and relatively low
(mud volcanism)       cost of such a survey, Management has recommended that ACUACAR
                      undertake a side scan sonar survey. ACUACAR plans to carry out the
                      survey by December 31, 2005.

Overland Pipeline     Given the importance of an emergency plan and concerns expressed in the
Design                Request, Management will request ACUACAR to more fully articulate and
                      communicate the emergency plan and related risk mitigation measures to
                      concerned parties. Management will request that the updated plan be
                      available for public consultation by March 2006. For information on other
                      aspects of public consultation, see Item 14 in Annex 1 of this response.

Disposal of Solids    In response to the Panel's finding, ACUACAR will carry out an analysis of
                      alternative disposal methods for the screened material. ACUACAR plans to
                      submit the completed analysis to the Bank by December 31, 2005.

Project Impacts on    To respond to the community's concerns, ACUACAR, as part of the original
Locally Affected      Project, has agreed to support a program to strengthen fishing activities,
Communities ­         based on a study it is currently undertaking (planned completion date of
Fishing               September 2005), which draws on the 2003 INVEMAR study financed by
                      the Project. ACUACAR is working with the communities to identify specific
                      activities for optimized fishing opportunities in Punta Canoa. This work will
                      be monitored during Project supervision.

Social Impact         The piped water, under construction, is planned to be delivered to the North
Assessment and        Zone communities prior to or during the last quarter of 2005. These
Benefits for Afro-    investments were originally to be financed by the District, according to the
Colombian             Loan Agreement. Due to Project cost savings, these investments will now be
Communities in the    financed by the Loan, freeing up municipal budget for other uses. Moreover,
North Zone            as part of the Project, in-house sanitation is under construction in La
                      Boquilla and Manzanillo del Mar, and under bidding for Punta Canoa, where
                      delivery is projected for April 2006. La Boquilla has already been connected
                      to the sewer network. ACUACAR has committed to extend the network to
                      Punta Canoa, Manzanillo del Mar and Arroyo de Piedra in the next 24
                      months, in parallel with the construction of the outfall. Punta Canoa has
                      confirmed its interest in a Community Center, which is planned to be
                      provided by April 2006. A plant nursery has been established in Punta
                      Canoa, to be managed cooperatively by the community, to create jobs and
                      supply trees to the Project. Supervision will focus on the early delivery of the
                      benefits under the social program.

Consultations and     Management will review the quality of the outreach strategy and activities
Communication         with ACUACAR, and work with it to support the maintenance of the outreach
Strategy              program to the end of the Project, and to extend the communications
                      program to Arroyo de Piedra. The program will draw on the findings of the
                      recently issued final report of Fundación Vida Caribe on the Social Impact
                      Mitigation and Community Development Program, which identifies training
                      and information proposals of interest to community residents.




                                                  13

Colombia


                   OP 10.04 ­ Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations

Economic Evaluation     Management will update the results of the economic analysis to take into
of Alternatives         account the additional investments required by the environmental license
                        that would need to be operational in 2015, and adjust land values.

                                  OD 4.15 Poverty Reduction

Poverty Reduction       Pertinent actions are covered above under Project Impacts on Locally
                        Affected Communities ­ Fishing and Social Impact Assessment and
                        Benefits for Afro-Colombian Communities in the North Zone.

                             OP/BP 10.02 ­ Financial Management

Financial Management    Noting that it is a common practice, when working with financial agents, to
Assessment and          review audited financial information as part of supervision activities, and
Capacity of the         since the Trust Fund account is reviewed as part of the scope of work
District of Cartagena   performed by the Trust Fund Manager's auditor, the Bank will obtain and put
                        on file annual audit reports of La Previsora (the Trust Fund administrator).

                                              OTHER

International           CARDIQUE, the regional environmental authority, is responsible to monitor
Agreements              the conditions and the obligations of the environmental license that it has
                        granted to ACUACAR. As part of its routine supervision, the Bank will
                        confirm that ACUACAR is fulfilling conditions of the license.




                                          VI. CONCLUSION

49.      In Management's view, the Bank has made every effort to apply its policies and
procedures and to pursue its mission statement in the context of the Project. It is
Management's judgment that the proposed Action Plan appropriately addresses the issues
identified in the Panel's report.




                                                   14

                                   MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                     IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
                            COLOMBIA ­CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND
                                       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                       ANNEX 1

                                           FINDINGS, COMMENTS AND ACTIONS

No                 ISSUE/FINDING                  Para
                                                  No.                             COMMENTS/ACTION

OD 4.01 ­ Environmental Assessment
1.  Environmental Assessment: Project             58    Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    Screening                                           the Panel.
    Environmental screening was appropriate
    and in compliance with OD 4.01.                     Action: No action required.

2.  Stage in Project Cycle                        59    Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    EA for the Project was initiated early in the       the Panel.
    Project cycle, and in this respect complied
    with OD 4.01.                                       Action: No action required.

3.  Analysis of Alternatives and Use of           76-77 Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    Panel of Experts                                    the Panel concerning the scope of alternatives and the appointment
    Study of alternatives covered most of the           of a POE.
    alternatives for this type of Project and
    evaluated basic parameters. In this                     Regarding the extent of comparative analysis of alternatives,
    respect, the Bank complies with OD 4.01,            Management views the approach followed as consistent with
    paragraph 4 and Annex B (f).                        standard practice for a feasibility-level study. The purpose of the
                                                        analysis of alternatives was to determine the least cost
        The Panel is concerned about diligence          environmentally appropriate solution to achieve the Project
    with which alternatives other than the              objectives. Principal objectives of the Project were to improve the
    preferred alternative of submarine outfall          water and sewer services in Cartagena and the sanitary conditions of
    were studied. The voluminous FS and EA,             the city's poorest population and facilitate the environmental cleanup
    which closely follows the FS, give greater          of water bodies surrounding the city (Cartagena Bay, Caribbean
    attention to submarine outfall and do not           beaches, and Ciénaga de la Virgen). Realization of the wastewater
    demonstrate systematic comparative study            collection treatment and disposal system under the Project would
    of all alternatives as required by OD 4.01.         significantly improve the environmental health conditions for all of
                                                        Cartagena's population, of which about 85 percent are poor. For
        The Panel finds that the appointment of         many of the poor neighborhoods surrounding the Ciénaga, the
    a panel of experts to review the technical          Project would improve unacceptable sanitary conditions, since raw
    work in the feasibility study and the design        wastewater generated in these neighborhoods and in other parts of
    of the Project is consistent with Bank              the city flows in open storm water drainage canals through the area.
    policies, particularly OD 4.01, but is not
    convinced that there was a sufficiently                 As cited in the Panel's report, the FS identified and analyzed a
    thorough analysis of alternatives before a          comprehensive set of alternatives. The main alternatives for final
    decision was made.                                  disposal of domestic sewage were: (i) Cartagena Bay; (ii) Ciénaga de
                                                        La Virgen Lagoon; (iii) the Caribbean Sea; and (iv) reuse for
                                                        irrigation. The study also considered five treatment options, four sites
                                                        for a marine outfall, four outfall pipe diameters, five types of pipe
                                                        material, nine land conveyance routes in four corridors, and four
                                                        different diffuser depths. Overall, fifteen alternatives combining
                                                        different treatment levels and final disposal sites were considered. All
                                                        alternatives were evaluated from technical, economic, environmental
                                                        and social perspectives. Effluent quality, initial investment costs,
                                                        operation and maintenance costs, and land uptake were the main
                                                        comparison criteria. Additional environmental and social criteria were
                                                        used as well. As a result of this analysis, the preferred alternative
                                                        was selected and in-depth analysis of this alternative was conducted
                                                        subsequently.

                                                            Coastal cities have three options for wastewater disposal: (i) to
                                                        the sea; (ii) effluent reuse; and (iii) injection by deep wells to saline



                                                            15

     Colombia



No         ISSUE/FINDING    Para
                            No.                            COMMENTS/ACTION

                                 aquifers. Option (ii) is rarely used and requires reuse conditions that
                                 do not exist in Cartagena (see below). Option (iii) also is rare and
                                 depends on hydrogeological conditions, which do not exist in
                                 Cartagena.

                                 In the early 1990s, the proposed wastewater management scheme
                                 for Cartagena entailed treatment of wastewater in oxidation lagoons
                                 and discharge of the effluent into the Ciénaga (from which it would
                                 eventually reach the sea). This was not considered an appropriate
                                 long-term solution for Cartagena for several reasons. Effluent
                                 discharge to the Ciénaga would cause eutrophication of its water and
                                 damage to the mangroves growing around it (tertiary treatment would
                                 be needed to prevent eutrophication). Wastewater treatment in
                                 oxidation lagoons is difficult to control if the biological process
                                 collapses or the lagoons become overloaded; large oxidation lagoons
                                 such as those proposed for Cartagena could become a problem for a
                                 large tourism and resort city. A lagoon scheme would also have
                                 substantial land requirements. Finally, the cost of treating
                                 Cartagena's wastewater in oxidation lagoons and discharging the
                                 effluent to the Ciénaga was found to be higher than the cost of the
                                 selected alternative.

                                     The Panel stated (para 75) that "only cursory consideration [was
                                 given] to the option of constructing a sewage treatment plant near
                                 Cartagena, with waters going to a marine area or alternatively reused
                                 for agriculture as a supplement to the recommended disposal
                                 system." This alternative was considered appropriately. However, the
                                 option of sending treated wastewater (effluent) to the marine
                                 environment--regardless of whether the treatment is preliminary,
                                 primary secondary, or in a lagoon--would have required disposal
                                 through a submarine outfall equal in length to that of the proposed
                                 Project, if located offshore of Punta Canoa, or much longer if located
                                 at any point closer to Cartagena, since the sea bed slope slopes
                                 away most steeply from Punta Canoa. A tertiary treatment plant
                                 might have required a shorter outfall but would have been the most
                                 expensive alternative while generating no incremental benefits.

                                     The second option, a sewage treatment plant with treated effluent
                                 reused for agriculture, was determined not to be viable due to: (i) no
                                 demand for irrigation water in the area; (ii) the additional costs in
                                 treatment, irrigation and agriculture infrastructure that a reuse project
                                 would require; (iii) the availability of abundant fresh water for
                                 irrigation from Canal del Dique at a lower cost; and (iv) lack of an
                                 institutional framework capable of handling such a system.
                                 Furthermore, any wastewater reuse scheme would have needed to
                                 be coupled with installation of alternative discharge of the wastewater
                                 during the seasons that irrigation is not required as well as in
                                 emergency situations. A submarine outfall can also serve as an
                                 alternative discharge option, so the Project does not exclude future
                                 partial or total reuse of wastewater. The conveyance and submarine
                                 outfall system could support such an initiative in the future.

                                     The composition of the POE changed over time. For the first two
                                 meetings, when the task was to review the alternatives proposed by
                                 Hazen and Sawyer, most of the POE members were specialists in
                                 wastewater treatment, although submarine outfall specialists were
                                 also included, since that option was also available. Once the
                                 proposed alternative (preliminary treatment followed by an effective
                                 submarine outfall) was selected, the majority of the experts invited to
                                 participate in the POE were submarine outfall specialists, since this
                                 was the more complex aspect of the proposed alternative.



                                     16

                                                                             Management Report and Recommendation



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                  Para
                                                  No.                                 COMMENTS/ACTION

                                                           Management's view is that the members of the POE comprised a
                                                           valuable mix of expertise.

                                                               In Management's judgment, the analysis undertaken was
                                                           reasonable and was sufficient to select a preferred alternative.
                                                           Additional analysis of alternatives is unlikely to have resulted in a
                                                           different preferred alternative.

                                                           Action: No further action required.

4. Selected Option: Submarine Outfall             78-79    Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's finding that
   Disposal of sewage to sea via a submarine               outfalls are tried and proven technology for acceptable disposal of
   outfall is tried and proven technology                  human waste.
   which, under suitable conditions, offers
   low-cost low-maintenance solution for                       Management agrees that, in general, cumulative environmental
   acceptable disposal of human wastes.                    and health impacts of all future investments in wastewater disposal
                                                           should be evaluated. However, for the City of Cartagena, there is no
       The Panel observes that the FS and EA               expectation of additional outfalls within the time horizon of the
   did not address the possible long term                  Wastewater Master Plan up to the year 2025. Nor is any information
   environmental and health effects on the                 available concerning plans or locations for additional outfalls in the
   coastal and marine environment if there                 Cartagena region in the longer term. As a result, the assessment of
   were to be multiple outfalls in the area and            this Project did not include the effect of multiple outfalls. The
   volume of sewage and organic wastes                     environmental assessment of any future project with an outfall,
   increased significantly so as to exceed the             however, should examine the cumulative effects of such a proposed
   absorptive capacity of the marine area.                 project with what would then be an existing outfall at Punta Canoa.
   This is an issue that may need to be
   addressed in future.                                        As with the present Project, any future wastewater investment will
                                                           be subject to the full environmental impact review required under
                                                           Colombian legislation.

                                                           Action: No further action required.

5. Punta Canoa as the Location for the            92       Comment: Management shares the Panel's conclusion on the
   Outfall                                                 suitability of the outfall site. With regard to pathogens, the system is
   In terms of assimilative capacity, the Panel            designed to allow pathogen decay to a level safe for human contact
   notes that Punta Canoa coastal waters                   and to meet the bathing water standards of the California Ocean
   could be a suitable site for an outfall if              Plan, which have been widely adopted around the world,3 as well as
   necessary precautionary measures are                    those of Colombia, and new WHO standards at the shoreline. For
   taken in design to ensure proper dilution of            further information on how outfalls work, see Annex 2. The
   effluent so that nutrients are at an                    assumption that nutrients must be immediately reduced to
   acceptable level, and to ensure decay of                background levels is neither a usual assumption nor a usual design
   pathogens to a level safe for human                     criterion (see Annex 3).
   contact.
                                                               Mitigation measures have been built into the Project to manage
                                                           situations where the expected pathogen levels might not be
                                                           achieved. In such a case, the effluent in the treatment plant would be
                                                           chlorinated to ensure overall reduction of pathogens (disinfection plus
                                                           decay in the marine environment) to a level safe for human contact.
                                                           Although the probability that such treatment would be needed is low,
                                                           a chlorination option has been incorporated into the treatment plant.

                                                           Action: No action required.




         3 Total level of coliforms not exceeding 1000 MPN per 100 ml, provided that not more than 20 percent of
         the samples at any sampling station, in any 30 day period, may exceed 1000 per 100 ml and provided
         further that no single sample, when verified by a repeat sample taken within 48 hours, shall exceed 10,000
         per 100 ml. These standards must be met at a distance of 1000 feet from the shoreline or the 30 foot depth
         contour, whichever is farthest offshore.


                                                               17

         Colombia



No                ISSUE/FINDING                   Para
                                                  No.                            COMMENTS/ACTION

6. Proposed Design of the Submarine               107- Comment: Management acknowledges the comments and
   Outfall                                        109  suggestions of the Panel regarding the modeling of the outfall design.
   The Panel is aware that no consensus                In Management's view, the methodology to design the outfall took the
   exists as to whether the risk is high or low        relevant factors into account, as explained below.
   that disposal of the effluent under current
   outfall design will not be safe. Bank                   Two distinct two-dimensional models were used during Project
   Management relied on a robust two                   preparation and subsequently during detailed design. The first, by the
   dimensional model to assess risk of                 project consulting firm Hazen and Sawyer (1998), took into account
   contamination near shore from the outfall,          the influence of wind and the characteristics of the water column. The
   and used field data taken over an extended          second (2003), by an independent expert (see Annex 3 of
   period of time. While necessary ocean               Management's Eligibility Response), was prepared to review the
   modelling studies were conducted, the               validity of the Hazen and Sawyer design, which it confirmed. Models
   methodology used did not capture the                of this type are extremely complex due to the multiplicity of variables.
   possibly important influence of wind on             The second study omitted consideration of the wind effect. This does
   near surface currents in a stratified water         not seem to detract from the validity of the model as the results of
   column. This influence could affect                 both models did not differ significantly. For further information, see
   assessments of the dilution of effluent and         Annex 3 of this response.
   the risks of contamination to marine and                Management notes that a three-dimensional model is not
   coastal environments.                               necessarily more conservative or accurate. To provide reliable
       The Panel finds that if a three-                results, such a model requires significantly more data. From the time
   dimensional model, rather than two                  of Project preparation to date, most projects for outfalls discharging
   dimensional, were used to assess risk, the          at depths similar to those proposed for Cartagena have been
   diffusion patterns and estimates of                 designed with two-dimensional models. In contrast, three-
   shoreline concentrations might be different         dimensional models are commonly used for large outfall projects
   and that greater certainty regarding the risk       discharging to deeper water than the current Project. Thus, it is
   could be secured. The results could affect          Management's view that running a three-dimensional model would
   the distance from the shore and the depth           have no significant value added, and any benefits would likely be
   required for safe disposal of Cartagena             outweighed by the cost and time required.
   wastes.                                                 Management acknowledges the Panel's observation on the cost
       The Panel notes that after a first bidding      savings through use of HDPE pipes. The bidding process will not
   process that resulted in costs much higher          begin until September. The choice of pipe material will be an
   than those estimated in the PAD and the             outcome of the lowest cost responsive bid.
   Engineer's cost estimate, new                       Action: In view of the concerns expressed by the Panel, the Bank
   specifications are being prepared calling           has requested the expert who prepared the second two-dimensional
   for the use of High Density Polyethylene            validation model to re-run the model and incorporate the influence of
   (HDPE) for the construction of the outfall.         wind patterns. The Bank will also request that ACUACAR hire an
   According to Management, this alternative           international expert to provide a third and independent opinion on the
   should result in lower costs because, unlike        two-dimensional models contracted under the Project and the
   reinforced concrete pipes, HDPE pipes               detailed review presented in Annex B of the Panel's report.
   would not have to be trenched in the
   bottom of the sea over all its length but
   only in the surf zone. Analysis of the
   original bids showed that the cost of
   trenching was very high and now should be
   partially saved.

7. Risk of Diapirism (mud volcanism)              120- Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's finding that the
   The Panel finds that the potential for the     124  risk of diapirism is low. Management's view is that these findings
   pipeline to be ruptured or otherwise                were adequately confirmed by the FS, EA and subsequent analysis
   significantly disturbed by diapirism appears        by Vernettte (March 2001). This view is shared by CARDIQUE and
   to be low. Since the study cited by Bank            the Colombian Ministry of the Environment.
   found diapirism about 300 meters from the
   outfall and eyewitness accounts cite                Action: In response to the Panel's suggestion and given the utility
   diapirism off Punta Canoa in 1979, the              and relatively low cost of such a survey, Management has
   Panel notes that it may be useful to have           recommended that ACUACAR undertake a side scan sonar survey.
   side scan sonar survey of the proposed              ACUACAR plans to carry out the survey by December 31, 2005.
   outfall trajectory to map subsurface soil
   structure to a depth of low frequency sonar
   penetration to reduce any remaining



                                                           18

                                                                         Management Report and Recommendation



No                ISSUE/FINDING                    Para
                                                   No.                            COMMENTS/ACTION

    uncertainty regarding the possibility of
    diapirism extending to the outfall, and to
    publish the results.

8.  The Land Conveyance System (Routing,           132  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    Pumping Stations and Treatment Plant                the Panel.
    Locations)
    For the selected option of a submarine              Action: No action required.
    outfall, the analysis of alternatives for land
    conveyance systems, liquid disposal
    locations and pipeline corridors, in terms of
    their potential health and environmental
    impacts, meets the OD 4.01 requirement
    that alternatives be considered. Bank staff
    exercised due diligence in considering
    alternatives and mitigation measures and
    complied with OD 4.01 on EA.

9.  Overland Pipeline Design                       135- Comment: Management concurs with the Panel that adequate risk
    The Panel finds that this Issue [of            137  mitigation measures are important to have in place. State-of-the-art
    contamination of surface and groundwater            stand-by pumps and generators will serve to minimize any risk of
    resources] was neither analyzed in the              electrical failure. The risk of pipe rupture, while low, could not be
    1999 EA nor included in the Environment             mitigated by storage, given the maximum expected flow (up to
    Management Plan. The Panel finds that               300,000 cubic meters per day by 2025) and the reasonable time
    groundwater monitoring is important in              required to repair breakage. In case of rupture, the existing
    order to identify leakage and actions to            emergency plan provides that the wastewater be diverted to the
    mitigate it.                                        Ciénaga. The Government of Colombia has implemented the La
                                                        Bocana Project (a Dutch financed project totaling USD24 million), a
       After reviewing contingency manual, the          series of floodgates to mitigate the impact of such diversions by
    Panel remains concerned about the                   allowing dilution of wastewater in the Ciénaga with sea water.
    adequacy of the planning for emergencies
    [such as risk of rupture or disruption of               Groundwater resources are scarce in the Cartagena region. No
    electrical service]. Records examined do            production wells exist in the area and groundwater is not a source of
    not clarify whether Paraíso pumping station         water supply. The probability of groundwater contamination from
    system provides for storage area in case of         leaking wastewater is low and the practical impact is small due to
    emergencies.                                        lack of use of groundwater. The risk of contamination of surface
                                                        water along the route of the pipe is nil, because there is no surface
                                                        water in this area.

                                                        Action: Given the importance of an emergency plan and concerns
                                                        expressed in the Request, Management will request ACUACAR to
                                                        more fully articulate and communicate the emergency plan and
                                                        related risk mitigation measures to concerned parties. Management
                                                        will request that the updated plan be available for public consultation
                                                        by March 2006. For information on other aspects of public
                                                        consultation, see Item 14 in Annex 1 of this response.

10. Disposal of Solids                             142  Comment: Management agrees that a study of alternatives for
    The Panel finds that the Project                    disposal of solids was not carried out, because of accepted practice
    environmental studies did not consider              for disposal of this type of material. The solids requiring disposal
    alternatives for the disposal of solids             consist of materials accumulated as a result of screening, such as
    recovered during preliminary treatment of           clothing, plastics, paper and the like. Accordingly, a technical
    the sewage stream. In this respect,                 analysis of disposal was undertaken. That study indicated that at the
    Management does not comply with OD                  beginning of outfall operation, the quantities of compacted,
    4.01. Although Management now asserts               dewatered material would amount to one truck load per day,
    that a plan exists for disposal of sludge, the      increasing to a maximum of two truck loads per day after 20 years.
    Panel has not been able to find a                   These wastes could be deposited in a municipal sanitary landfill,
    consideration of alternatives for disposal of       specifically the La Paz landfill, located about 17 kilometers from the
    sludge as required before finalizing a plan.        city.

                                                        Action: In response to the Panel's finding, ACUACAR will carry out
                                                        an analysis of alternative disposal methods for the screened material.



                                                            19

          Colombia



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                    Para
                                                    No.                            COMMENTS/ACTION

                                                         ACUACAR plans to submit the completed analysis to the Bank by
                                                         December 31, 2005.

11. The Monitoring Program                          147  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    In requiring a monitoring plan with                  the Panel. The environmental license that was issued by CARDIQUE
    adequate baseline data, the Bank complied            in 2001 legally binds ACUACAR to maintain its monitoring program
    with provisions of OD 4.01. ACUACAR, as              and update its results regularly.
    of summer 2003, had prepared baseline
    data regarding fisheries in the area. This           Action: No action required.
    complies with OD 4.01. It is essential that
    these studies be periodically updated to
    maintain their relevance and to identify
    changes in water quality or in fisheries.

12. Project Impacts on Locally Affected             152, Comment. Management shares the Panel's concern regarding the
    Communities - Fishing                           210  livelihoods and well-being of the populations in the North Zone.
    The Panel finds that in Project preparation,         Management also recognizes that fishing is important for many
    Project's potential effects on fishing were          households in North Zone communities, despite low levels of income
    not adequately addressed. The Panel                  generated. For example, based upon the 2003 INVEMAR report, the
    examined Project records but found no                annual total net income from fishing for Punta Canoa is about
    adequate social evaluation and mitigation            USD24,000 per year for 132 fishermen. It is Management's view,
    proposals of potential impacts on the local          based on the data, that the Project's impact on fishing will be low, as
    population's lives and livelihood. The Panel         indicated in the EA, for the technical reasons described below.
    finds that this does not comply with OD
    4.01.                                                    The Summary Social Assessment (Annex 10 of the PAD)
                                                         indicated the importance of fishing for Punta Canoa. Data from the
       The Panel finds that the EA and                   SIA confirm this and note (page 22, Fig. 8) that one in four of Punta
    Management erred in concluding that                  Canoa's population over 15 years of age was engaged in fishing at
    fishing in the area of influence of the outfall      the time of the survey. Similarly, the SIA found that one in twelve
    is negligible or unimportant in the affected         adults in La Boquilla was engaged in fishing. Yet even recognizing
    communities without more detailed studies            the importance of fishing for livelihoods in the North Zone, (further
    about this issue.                                    confirmed by the in-depth 2003 study by INVEMAR, cited by the
                                                         Panel), Management stands behind the EA's finding that "Impact on
                                                         fisheries was also deemed of low magnitude and importance," for
                                                         three reasons. First, the discharge from the outfall is in a location that
                                                         is already degraded by the Rio Magdalena, and underwater surveys
                                                         have found nearly non-existent biological activity. Thus, no
                                                         hatcheries, spawning or feeding grounds that might be affected were
                                                         found in the immediate vicinity of the outfall discharge. Second, risks
                                                         to the marine environment beyond the immediate discharge area are
                                                         negligible. Third, the fishing practices of the community, whether
                                                         artisanal fishing close to shore or market-oriented fishing, using boats
                                                         with outboard motors that travel several hours from Punta Canoa, are
                                                         such that the fishers' livelihoods would not be affected by the location
                                                         of the outfall.

                                                         Action: To respond to the community's concerns, ACUACAR, as
                                                         part of the original Project, has agreed to support a program to
                                                         strengthen fishing activities, based on a study it is currently
                                                         undertaking (planned completion date of September 2005), which
                                                         draws on the 2003 INVEMAR study financed by the Project.
                                                         ACUACAR is working with the communities to identify specific
                                                         activities for optimized fishing opportunities in Punta Canoa. This
                                                         work will be monitored during Project supervision.

13. Social Impact Assessment and Benefits           205- Comment. Management views Project support to the North Zone
    for Afro-Colombian Communities in the           206, communities as including them in the Project and ensuring that they
    North Zone.                                     219, share in Project benefits, rather than as compensating them for the
    The Panel finds that the full SIA does not      223- existence of the Project. Project support is also targeted to ensure
    adequately address compensation for the         225  that any adverse risks they face under the Project are mitigated, in
    affected Afro-Colombian communities in               line with OD 4.01. The sharing of Project benefits includes but is not



                                                             20

                                                                        Management Report and Recommendation



No               ISSUE/FINDING                   Para
                                                 No.                             COMMENTS/ACTION

   the North Zone for bearing most of the risk        limited to piped water and sanitation services to various North Zone
   of negative impacts of the sewerage                communities to improve their well-being.
   component for the Project.
                                                         In order to develop risk mitigation measures, the SIA was led by
       The Panel finds that the Social Impact         an anthropological expert with strong local knowledge, under the
   Assessment (SIA) is unsatisfactory with            supervision of Bank social scientist staff, and extensive consultations
   respect to its analysis of the Project's           were held with Project communities to identify potential risks. The
   impacts upon the communities living in the         communities' most commonly expressed concerns were capacity to
   North Zone of Cartagena who presented              pay for services, increases in taxes and land prices, and loss of
   the Request for Inspection. Irrespective of        eligibility for subsidies, as well as construction nuisances, risk of
   whether Afro-Colombians are classified as          damage to the pipeline, fishing impacts, and foul odors. Certain risks,
   indigenous peoples or not, they are                for example, land price increases and the risk of displacement by
   affected by the Project because they will          urban growth, reflect long-term trends, subsequent to the
   be exposed to a wide range of risks as a           construction of the Cartagena-Barranquilla highway, and go beyond
   result of the construction and operation of        the scope of the Project. Nonetheless, the Social Impact Mitigation
   the Project.                                       and Community Development Program aims to address these risks
                                                      by supporting the strengthening of community organizations and
       The Panel notes that the piped water is        ensuring their linkage to and participation in the District's Urban
   expected to be safer and less expensive            Rehabilitation Program.
   than the trucked water, which will be a
   significant benefit for the community. The            Specific risks such as construction nuisances are being
   Panel finds that this is in compliance with        addressed along lines indicated in the Panel's report, e.g., via
   OD 4.01.                                           blacktopping a road through Punta Canoa (completed recently), and
                                                      by building guidelines into construction bidding document
       The Panel notes that these                     specifications to minimize construction impacts. Oversight is provided
   communities may be exposed to significant          by social and environmental experts attached to ACUACAR, and
   risks under the Project. Some                      communities will be advised ahead of time regarding construction
   compensation for the potential impacts is          plans. Similarly, foul odors are being mitigated in the design of the
   provided under the Project, e.g., water and        wastewater treatment plant and via the burial of the pipeline
   sanitation services, in accord with OD 4.01.       underground. Regarding fishing impacts, see Item 12.
       The Panel welcomes the initiative to              Management concurs with the Panel's finding that the Social
   provide compensation for the Afro-                 Impact Mitigation and Community Development Program has fallen
   Colombian minorities, but finds that details       behind schedule, as has the overall Project, thus delaying important
   about some of the compensation measures            benefits to the community. Implementation has accelerated recently,
   are not specific, and it is unclear whether        however, and key services are expected to be delivered shortly. See
   appropriate financial arrangements have            Item 14 concerning dissemination of information.
   been made to implement benefits, such as
   sanitation services and maintenance and            Action: The piped water, under construction, is planned to be
   operation of community centers. The Panel          delivered to the North Zone communities prior to or during the last
   also finds that implementation of these            quarter of 2005. These investments were originally to be financed by
   measures seems to be lagging behind.               the District, according to the Loan Agreement. Due to Project cost
                                                      savings, these investments will now be financed by the Loan, freeing
       The Panel also finds that information          up municipal budget for other uses. Moreover, as part of the Project,
   about these compensatory measures has              in-house sanitation is under construction in La Boquilla and
   been inadequately disseminated to the              Manzanillo del Mar, and under bidding for Punta Canoa, where
   villages.                                          delivery is projected for April 2006. La Boquilla has already been
       The Panel welcomes the proposed                connected to the sewer network. ACUACAR has committed to extend
   benefits for the people living in the Project      the network to Punta Canoa, Manzanillo del Mar and Arroyo de
   area but notes that there seems to be no           Piedra in the next 24 months, in parallel with construction of the
   direct relation between such benefits and          outfall. Punta Canoa has confirmed its interest in a Community
   the risks that people may be exposed to as         Center, which is planned to be provided by April 2006. A plant
   a consequence of Project construction and          nursery has been established in Punta Canoa, to be managed
   operation...In this sense, the proposed            cooperatively by the community, to create jobs and supply trees to
   Social Impact Mitigation and Community             the Project. Supervision will focus on the early delivery of the benefits
   Development Program seems to fall short            under the social program.
   in addressing the mitigation or
   compensation for harm related to potential
   adverse impacts of the Project as required
   by OD 4.01.




                                                         21

          Colombia



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                  Para
                                                  No.                           COMMENTS/ACTION

14. Consultations and Communication               233- Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's finding that there
    Strategy                                      242  were extensive consultation efforts with people in Cartagena. While
    The Panel finds that during Project                not every resident of the North Zone may have been reached, an
    preparation there were extensive                   unusually intensive effort was made to reach representatives and
    consultation efforts with people in                residents of these communities. The Project has implemented a
    Cartagena. This accords with OD 4.01.              wide-ranging, long-term consultation and communication approach
    However, OD 4.01 requires that there be            from the outset, designed to reach a broad range of stakeholders.
    extensive consultations with all affected          The first stages in February 1998 essentially involved stakeholder
    people and that these consultations be             workshops to discuss initial Project designs with representatives of
    timely, meaningful and relevant to Project         Project-affected communities and with private and public officials.
    design and execution. This is particularly         Final Project designs were then discussed in stakeholder workshops
    important in the case of affected Afro-            in February 1999.
    Colombian communities living in the area
    of the proposed outfall, who state they                The workshops in 1998-1999 with stakeholders covered the
    were not consulted about the location of           Terms of Reference for the EA, the various technical options (outfall
    the outfall but rather only informed about         versus non-outfall options and potential outfall locations), the
    its construction and operation.                    technical, economic and social information that strongly pointed
                                                       towards the outfall as being the best alternative in terms of
        Commendably, ACUACAR arranged for              maximizing net benefits at minimum risk, as well as the proposed
    a cross-section of society to inspect              environmental and social impact mitigation programs and monitoring
    existing outfalls, similar to the proposed         processes. The SIA prepared by August 1998 used stratified
    one for Punta Canoa. Representatives               sampling that focused on the two areas most likely to be affected by
    from all three affected villages visited           the Project, namely urban Southeast Cartagena and rural
    outfalls in Valparaiso, Chile and in               communities in the North Zone. These consultations led to the
    Montevideo. The Panel finds that this is           extension of Project benefits to the North Zone and to a range of risk
    best practice. Unfortunately, this visit took      mitigation measures under the environmental and social components
    place after the Project had been designed          to address concerns identified by the communities. EA consultations
    and its location determined, while OD 4.01         comprised circa 250 events between 1998 and 2003. Moreover,
    requires interaction during preparation of         while site visits came later in the process, Management
    Project.                                           acknowledges the Panel's finding that these visits organized by
                                                       ACUACAR were best practice, and views these as an important
        The Vida Foundation communications             additional component of the first phase of the outreach program.
    program was started over one year ago for
    Punta Canoa and Manzanillo del Mar. The                After the environmental license was issued, media attention
    Panel found that Arroyo de Piedra is               focused on the Project. At the same time, the Project was
    excluded from this program. Starting a             experiencing delays in extending water and sanitation benefits to the
    communications strategy for the affected           North Zone. This led to a second phase of communications and
    communities five years after appraisal is          consultations after 2001, in which a communication strategy was
    more expensive and less effective than             designed to inform a broader audience in Cartagena, while efforts
    starting it during Project preparation.            were also redoubled in the North Zone through community
                                                       information centers, social events, comics, posters and radio
        While the Project commendably                  communications. Arroyo de Piedra was not included because
    included a communications strategy, it             technical work had determined by then that the risk of impact to the
    failed to reach most members of the                community, given its distance from the outfall, was minimal, although
    affected communities in the North Zone. An         its beaches would continue to be monitored as part of the overall
    outreach strategy was added too late to            monitoring program.
    deal effectively with Project-related trauma
    and stress in these communities. The               Action: Management will review the quality of the outreach strategy
    Panel finds that consultations and                 and activities with ACUACAR, and work with it to support the
    communications with the affected Afro-             maintenance of the outreach program to the end of the Project, and
    Colombian communities in the area of the           to extend the communications program to Arroyo de Piedra. The
    submarine outfall did not comply with OD           program will draw on the findings of the recently issued final report of
    4.01.                                              Fundación Vida Caribe on the Social Impact Mitigation and
                                                       Community Development Program, which identifies training and
                                                       information proposals of interest to community residents.

15. Consultations and Willingness to Pay          248  Comment: In Management's view, the contingent valuation method
    Surveys                                            was a useful tool to assess the economic benefits of the proposed
    Connection to the water and sewerage               interventions. The application of this method requires conducting
    network is of utmost importance for North          surveys of a random sample of potential beneficiaries to elicit their
    Zone communities. However, the Panel did           demand for services and willingness to pay (WTP or gross



                                                           22

                                                                       Management Report and Recommendation



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                  Para
                                                  No.                           COMMENTS/ACTION

    not find any evidence that a formal                associated benefit) for the goods or services to be provided by the
    consultation process on all aspects of             Project. WTP surveys were conducted as part of the economic
    water and sewerage issues took place with          analysis and not as a consultation with communities. The original
    the community of Punta Canoa. The Panel            Project design did not include water and sanitation investments in
    finds that willingness to pay surveys did not      Punta Canoa, Manzanillo del Mar; or Arroyo de Piedra; instead,
    include Punta Canoa (or Manzanillo) and            these investments were the responsibility of the District of Cartagena,
    these communities were not adequately              outside the Project scope. As such, the costs of these investments
    consulted on issues of willingness to pay          were not considered in the analysis and thus WTP surveys were not
    and water tariffs.                                 undertaken for them.

                                                          In terms of the Panel's concern about additional consultations on
                                                       the issues of WTP and water tariffs, it is Management's judgment that
                                                       such additional consultations were not needed. The reason is that
                                                       poor families unconnected to water were paying for 1 cubic meter of
                                                       trucked water the equivalent to what these families (in stratum 1, the
                                                       poorest in the system) would pay to ACUACAR for a monthly bill of
                                                       up to 20 cubic meters of potable water, plus the convenience of a
                                                       household connection. The quantity of the subsidized consumption is
                                                       considered more than adequate to satisfy the monthly needs of a
                                                       typical family.

                                                       Action: No action required.

OP 4.04 ­ Natural Habitats
16. Natural Habitats                              162  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    The Panel finds that the mangrove swamps           the Panel.
    of the Ciénaga and Bahia de Cartagena
    and the coral reefs in the Caribbean Sea           Action: No action required.
    have been fully considered in the
    Feasibility Studies and the Environmental
    Assessments. Although item (ii) of Project
    component G on Restoration and
    Conservation of the Ciénaga de la Virgen
    Natural Reserve has yet to be implemented
    (because the Project has not yet advanced
    to a stage where this is applicable), the
    Bank has otherwise complied with OP
    4.04.

OP 4.07 ­ Water Resources Management
17. Water Resources Management                    164- Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    The Bank complied with OP 4.07 on Water       166  the Panel.
    Resources Management and with OD 4.01
    which requires that "water resources               Action: No action required.
    management should be environmentally
    sustainable".

        The decision to disregard Ciénaga de la
    Virgen as a potential place for final
    disposal of waste after treatment allows for
    preservation of this important ecosystem.
    The FS, EA and supplementary studies
    document well and analyze the condition of
    the biophysical environment, particularly of
    the Caribbean Sea, Bahia de Cartagena
    and Ciénaga de la Virgen. However, they
    do not consider terrestrial environment in
    as great a depth.




                                                          23

            Colombia



No                  ISSUE/FINDING                  Para
                                                   No.                          COMMENTS/ACTION

International Agreements
18. International Agreements.                      177  Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's note. As also
     The Panel notes that the license granted           noted by the Panel, the 1999 Protocol to the 1983 Convention for the
     by CARDIQUE states that the Project shall          Protection and Development of the Marine Environment of the Wider
     adjust its treatment system to all                 Caribbean Region (Cartagena Convention) Concerning Pollution
     requirements for the protection of water           from Land-Based Sources and Activities has not entered into force,
     bodies and submarine ecosystems                    having been ratified by only two of the nine countries necessary to do
     resulting from national legislation or             so.
     international agreements to which
     Colombia will become a party.                      Action: CARDIQUE, the regional environmental authority, is
                                                        responsible to monitor the conditions and the obligations of the
                                                        environmental license that it has granted to ACUACAR. As part of its
                                                        routine supervision, the Bank will confirm that ACUACAR is fulfilling
                                                        conditions of the license.

OD 4.20 ­ Indigenous Peoples
19. Indigenous Peoples                             187, Comment: Management agrees with the Panel that the Afro-
     The Panel finds that in the case of the       191, Colombians did not meet two of the policy criteria under OD 4.20 and
     Afro-Colombians who submitted the             203  there has been compliance with the OD. Moreover, the Project's
     Request, the affected community meets              safeguards specialists drew on the research undertaken by an expert
     most of the OD's criteria, except for "an          local anthropologist under the SIA in applying the criteria concerning
     indigenous language," and arguably a               Indigenous Peoples.
     predominant "primarily subsistence-
     oriented production." The Panel finds that         Action: No action required.
     Afro-Colombians could reasonably have
     been regarded as indigenous peoples
     under Bank policies. But because of the
     absence of two of the policy criteria, the
     failure to do so in this specific case may
     not be deemed as noncompliance with the
     "judgment" called for in OD 4.20, para 5. If
     the Afro-Colombians were regarded as
     indigenous people, the provisions of OD
     4.20 would have applied.

         The Panel finds that no "specialized
     anthropological and sociological experts"
     were consulted in this decision, contrary to
     intention of OD 4.20.

20. Indigenous Peoples Development Plan            195- Comment: Since OD 4.20 did not apply, no IPDP was prepared.
     The Panel finds that there is no complete     196  Concerning the Panel's finding regarding the adequacy of the SIA,
     list, schedule or financial arrangements of        and the mitigatory measures and benefits outlined in the Social
     mitigatory measures or compensation for            Impact Mitigation and Community Development Program, see Items
     the Project's risks for the people living in       12 and 13.
     the area of the proposed outfall.
                                                        Action: No action required.
         Since the Afro-Colombians could
     reasonably have been regarded as
     indigenous peoples within the Indigenous
     Peoples policy, the Panel finds that the
     Bank would have been well advised to
     require an Indigenous Peoples
     Development Plan (IPDP) or similar
     document identifying impacts of the Project
     on these people and providing mitigation
     measures for risks and potential harm,
     particularly in light of the inadequacies of
     the Social Impact Assessment.




                                                           24

                                                                              Management Report and Recommendation



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                   Para
                                                   No.                                 COMMENTS/ACTION

OP 10.04 ­ Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
21. Economic Evaluation of Alternatives            329,      Comment: At the time of the appraisal in 1999, it was difficult to
    The Panel finds that when the                  335-      foresee the requirements emerging from the environmental license
    environmental license was issued for the       336       issued in 2001; therefore, any effects on the overall economic
    submarine outfall requiring primary                      viability of the Project were not possible to include in the PAD. The
    treatment in ten years, the Bank should                  economic cost benefit analysis, carried out by an internationally
    have recalculated the costs of the                       recognized expert (covering sewer investment, 91 percent of all
    alternative and reviewed the economic                    physical investment), shows that even with an increase in the present
    analysis in light of this new licensing                  value of investment costs of up to 53 percent, the Project will still
    requirement, to be consistent with OP                    yield a positive result, strongly indicating that the requirements
    10.04.                                                   emerging from the additional investments in year 10 will be low
                                                             enough for the Project to maintain a positive return.4
        The Panel finds that, having
    acknowledged uncertainty about land                          The members of the POE were chosen to represent the range of
    prices, the analysis in the feasibility study            expertise needed to address the highly technical and major
    did not then provide a clear justification for           environmental and engineering issues associated with wastewater
    the prices used in the costing of the Project            disposal. It is Management's judgment that the use of a POE and its
    alternatives.                                            particular composition were appropriate to the main challenges of the
                                                             Project.
        Given longstanding controversy
    concerning the preferred option to address               Action: Management will update the results of the economic analysis
    the City's wastewater problems, it would                 to take into account the additional investments required by the
    have been prudent to have had the Panel                  environmental license that would need to be operational in 2015, and
    of Experts include a wider range of                      adjust land values.
    expertise, to provide more authoritative
    findings about both socioeconomic impacts
    and the economic costs of the alternatives
    considered.

22. Material in the PAD                            261-      Comment: Management acknowledges that the PAD did not
    This section [Possible Controversial           262       adequately explain further increases in average tariff levels and
    Aspects] of the PAD also cites average                   lacked detailed discussions on connection fees for the poor. About 85
    tariff levels and projected increases in                 percent of Cartagena's population is classified as poor (strata 1, 2
    them. However, these averages provide no                 and 3) according to a methodology defined by the National
    information about any differential aspects               Department of Planning and implemented by each city. The tariff
    on different groups in the population. This              structure applied in Colombia by law is based on heavy cross-
    is relevant because it is an issue of some               subsidies for consumption by the poor from commercial and industrial
    potential significance, particularly where               users and residential users classified in strata 5 and 6, so that
    poorer groups are concerned.                             families in the lowest strata are able to pay their monthly bill. Even
                                                             with average tariff increases, consumers in the lowest strata will
        There is little discussion about                     benefit from cross-subsidies. In terms of access to the water and
    connection fees for access to new water                  sewer network, ACUACAR, as part of the Project design, does not
    and sewerage services, although they are                 charge its poor customers a connection fee, as investments to
    potentially controversial and might                      expand coverage are covered by the Project.
    influence the economic performance of
    Project, particularly in relation to poorer              Action: No action required.
    consumers, as previous Bank experience
    confirms.

23. Economic Viability                             281-      Comment: As a general recommendation, the Handbook on
    The Panel notes...that the PAD's               290       Economic Analysis of Investment Operations (page 106, cited in
    sensitivity analysis does not report the                 OP/BP 10.04), indicates that it is best to use the simplest measure of
    responsiveness of net present values to                  effects compatible with the problem to be analyzed. The Handbook
    variations in WTP. However, the Panel                    recommends, under time and budget constraints of project
    finds that the PAD did not try to make                   preparation, that analysts carefully weigh the costs and benefits of
    further - necessarily approximate -                      added complexity. Experience indicates that simplicity seldom
    estimates of the enhanced tourism and                    adversely affects the analysis.


           4 Soluciones Integrales. Cost Benefit Analysis of the Cartagena Water Supply, Sewerage and
           Environmental Management Project (October 1998), supplied to the Panel during its investigation.


                                                                 25

           Colombia



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                    Para
                                                    No.                           COMMENTS/ACTION

    recreational benefits likely to be associated            Consistent with this standard evaluation practice, tourism benefits
    with the Project, which is surprising given          were not included because they were difficult to quantify monetarily.
    the acknowledged importance of tourism to            Given that the Project was already yielding a positive net present
    the economy of Cartagena.                            value, a conservative approach was used and the economic benefits
                                                         associated with tourism were not quantified.
        The PAD notes that tourism is the main
    income source in the city and quotes                     The economic cost benefit analysis conducted by the international
    700,000 annual visitors and estimated                expert cited in Item 21 was based on contingent valuation
    revenues of USD315 million generated.                methodology, which explicitly draws on experiences from the Bank
    The Panel finds that the Bank should have            and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Part of the analysis
    considered these benefits in order to be             is based on previous studies conducted by the expert in Cartagena
    consistent with OP 10.04, which says that:           for an IDB financed intervention. Management acknowledges that the
    "The economic evaluation of Bank-                    PAD does not comment on the results of previous studies.
    financed projects takes into account any
    domestic and cross-border externalities."            Action: No action required.

        Given that the Bank and other
    international agencies have carried out or
    sponsored numerous studies of willingness
    to pay for water and of water tariffs, the
    Panel expected the PAD's economic
    analysis explicitly to draw on and comment
    on this experience, in order to explain and
    validate the approach taken to valuing the
    benefits of improved water services. The
    Panel observes that the economic analysis
    does not do so.

24. Economic Analysis Presentation in the           264- Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's finding that the
    PAD                                             270, economic analysis may have been carried out competently and
    - Cost Benefit Analysis                         298, broadly in line with OP 10.04, although Annex 4 in the PAD did not
    The PAD notes that the evaluated                301- reflect the intensive and comprehensive analysis conducted, in
    infrastructure components represent 88          302, particular that done by the international expert cited in Item 21. This
    percent of the total Project cost. The Panel    307  analysis demonstrates the viability and robustness of 91 percent of
    finds that no description or explanation is          the physical investments to be financed by the Bank (sewage
    offered in relation to the remaining 12              collection and treatment), in compliance with OP 10.04.
    percent.
                                                             As noted by the Panel (para 263), a cost benefit analysis was
        No reference is made as to whether the           used to measure the financial and economic viability of the
    Bank performed any checks on the validity            investments that will be partially financed by the Bank. This included
    and reliability of data, although they formed        the analysis by the expert cited in Item 21 on the sewage collection
    essential building blocks for analyses. The          and treatment investments, as well as analysis by Bank staff and
    Panel finds that, even though it would not           ACUACAR on other physical investments. As can be seen in the
    have been feasible to scrutinize and                 Project breakdown by component (PAD, page 7), the 11.8 percent of
    validate all parts of these data, PAD should         the total program that was not included in the cost benefit analysis
    have examined the issue of data reliability          was related to institution building, the environmental and social
    as part of showing compliance with OP                component, project management, technical assistance, studies,
    10.04.                                               design and supervision and the front-end fee. These costs do not
                                                         correspond to physical investments and typically are not included in
        The PAD does not explain whether                 the economic evaluation. Management acknowledges that the PAD
    water billing took into account the six-part         could have explicitly stated this in Annex 4.
    tariff structure for different income groups.
                                                             Management also acknowledges that the PAD could have pointed
    - Distribution of Benefits                           out more clearly that the data used for the economic analysis was
    There appears to be little discussion of             checked and validated in compliance with OP 10.04. The economic
    connection costs to new water and                    cost benefit analysis was based on: (i) costs that were fully analyzed
    sewerage services in the PAD....The Panel            by Bank experts in the field; and (ii) contingent valuation. This
    finds this is a potentially important issue for      approach reflected a state of the art valuation method at the time of
    consumers and the utility, and much may              appraisal and is best practice.
    depend on how it is addressed, particularly
    in relation to poorer consumers, as                      Management acknowledges that the PAD left unsaid whether
                                                         water billing took into account the six-part tariff structure for different



                                                             26

                                                                         Management Report and Recommendation



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                   Para
                                                   No.                           COMMENTS/ACTION

    previous Bank experience confirms.                  income groups. Water billing does in fact take into account this
                                                        structure, which is the only tariff structure in Colombia. In the case of
    - Sensitivity and Risk Analysis                     Cartagena, the majority of the population is in strata 1, 2 or 3 (low
    While the PAD says that the risk analysis           income), to which subsidies apply.
    recalculated the results of the financial and
    economic analysis by changing "these                    Management also acknowledges that the section of the PAD
    major risk variables all at the same time," it      summarizing the sensitivity and risk analyses does not fully set out
    is unhelpful because it only sets out the           the result of the detailed study conducted by the international expert.
    probability distributions and ranges that           Based on switching values of major risk variables and Monte Carlo
    were used for five of the variables. There is       simulations, this analysis demonstrates the robustness of the
    no obvious reason why this was not done             investment program, in compliance with OP 10.04. The switching
    for the remaining variables and it makes it         value results from this study (Cost Benefit Analysis, 1998, pages 28-
    impossible for the reader to gain a full            29) showed that the Project would be feasible with a 35 percent
    picture of the procedures, underlying               reduction of the estimated WTP, and a 53 percent increase of
    rationales and results of the sensitivity and       investment costs, even if no population growth were considered.
    risk analysis. The analysis does not                These results demonstrate the robustness of the investments. The
    discuss the responsiveness of net present           Monte Carlo simulations reinforced these conclusions by showing
    values to variations in WTP, a key variable,        that after 200 simulations, the average economic rate of return was
    and...the economic sensitivity analysis             18.2 percent and the minimum value was 14.3 percent, with an
    does not mention them... In the Panel's             average positive net present value at the time of 26.02 billion
    view, therefore, the PAD's sensitivity and          Colombian pesos (USD15.4 million)and a minimum of 10.02 billion
    risk analysis is inadequate under OP                Colombian pesos (USD6 million).
    10.04's provisions relating to risk.
                                                        Action: No further action required.
    - Cost Benefit Analysis Summary in the
    PAD
    Although underlying economic evaluation
    may have been carried out competently
    and broadly in line with OP 10.04, parts of
    material in Annex 4 are not presented and
    explained in PAD with sufficient clarity,
    transparency and consistency to
    demonstrate this compliance. This matters
    because partial or confusing explanations
    in the PAD risk failing successfully to
    communicate and confirm to stakeholders
    the nature and robustness of appraisal
    processes that the Bank's operational
    procedures like OP 10.04 promote and
    require. This could be important for a
    project acknowledged to have controversial
    aspects.

25. Poverty Reduction                              344- Comment: Management shares the Panel's views on the importance
    In view of Project's design and locations      349, of the Project's poverty related impacts on Cartagena's poor and
    that will be affected, there seems little      300  vulnerable population. Management shares the Panel's opinion that,
    doubt that substantial numbers of poor              if this information had been included in the PAD, external audiences
    people in Cartagena are intended to and             may have more easily understood the Project's relevance to poverty
    seem likely to experience significant               reduction. However, the distributive impact analysis and the socio-
    benefits associated with provision of               economic information collected as part of the economic cost benefit
    enhanced access to and quality of water             analysis conducted by the international expert provides much of the
    and sewerage services.                              data that should have been presented in the PAD.

        The footnote to Table 6 [of the PAD]                During supervision, the Bank conducted a study to further analyze
    says that the negative impact (presumably           and monitor the impact of ACUACAR interventions on the poor in
    the loss to the poor associated with the            terms of access to water and sanitation services, compared to other
    water supply projects) "is mainly due to            publicly managed utilities in Colombia. This was presented as an
    shadow pricing the financial benefits in            Annex to the PAD of the Colombia Sector Reform Assistance Project
    order to obtain the economic benefits." In          approved by the Board on October 25, 2001 and published as a
    the Panel's view a fuller explanation should        stand alone note, "En Breve - Colombia: Expanding Services to Low-
                                                        Income Areas," No. 24, May 2003 (attached to this response as



                                                            27

           Colombia



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                   Para
                                                   No.                          COMMENTS/ACTION

    have been supplied.                                 Annex 4).

        Evidence on poverty impact analysis in            While the Project does have important poverty impacts, it was not
    PAD is limited to the highly aggregated             meant to be a "Program of Targeted Intervention." Management
    `poor'/'non-poor' columns of Table 6 in             regrets the inadvertent error in this designation in the PAD.
    Annex 4 and eight poorly proof-read lines
    of text. Given that the first of the Project        Action: No further action required.
    development objectives is to improve water
    and sewerage services and sanitary
    conditions of the city's poorest population,
    and where ­ as with many Projects that
    may benefit poor people ­ it is possible
    that some of the poor may gain while
    others lose, it is disturbing that more effort
    was not put in during Project preparation
    and appraisal to enable sufficient income
    and/or other data to be assembled to
    assess Project's impacts on the poor "with
    any accuracy."

        It might have been possible, for
    example, to augment the analysis by
    introducing other related evidence, such as
    that in the social assessment, which the
    PAD (p. 20) states, "proved that the Project
    will benefit the poorest communities in
    Cartagena which currently lack sanitary
    services." Indeed, the Panel notes that
    Management may well have missed an
    opportunity to demonstrate clearly the
    extent to which the Project might be
    consistent with the Bank's poverty
    reduction strategy as OP 10.04 requires.

OD 4.15 ­ Poverty Reduction
26. Effects on the Three Communities               352, Comment: See comments in Items 12 and 13.
    There are...risks to these poor                355
    communities which have not been properly            Action: No further action required.
    and explicitly addressed in the appraisal of
    the Project. Had this been done, it might
    have been possible both to reassure
    concerned communities about levels of risk
    and/or put in place fall-back mechanisms
    that would provide trustworthy and timely
    "insurance" or compensation were events
    to arise. In the Panel's view, therefore, in
    relation to risk the Bank has not complied
    with OD 4.15. Compliance would have
    meant giving greater and earlier attention
    to risks to and concerns of these
    communities, whose willingness to accept
    the location and consequences of the
    outfall was key to successful delivery of the
    potentially very substantial benefits
    intended for so many of Cartagena's other
    poor citizens.

27. Potential Impacts on Other                     357  Comment: Management notes that the 1997 Colombia Country
    Infrastructure Investments by the                   Assistance Strategy (CAS) identifies the Cartagena Water Supply,
    District                                            Sewerage and Environmental Management Project as one of the
    In the Panel's view, the decision to focus          proposed interventions to achieve the broader aims of the Strategy.



                                                          28

                                                                           Management Report and Recommendation



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                    Para
                                                    No.                            COMMENTS/ACTION

    on water and sewerage investments was                Management also acknowledges the Panel's finding that the focus on
    not inappropriate, but given the Project's           water and sewerage investments was not inappropriate.
    potential consequences in keeping
    alternative infrastructure investments "to a             The CAS aimed to achieve full economic growth, reduce poverty,
    minimum," the potential impact on other              improve social conditions and support sustainable development. As a
    poverty-reducing investments should have             result, one of the six strategic areas of work was to improve
    been properly addressed. This might have             infrastructure services, including the Cartagena Water Supply,
    given confidence that the Project was the            Sewerage and Environmental Management Project. The Board
    best use of the scarce financial resources           discussed the CAS on November 6, 1997. Additionally, the
    of the District, and thus have shown                 Government of Colombia saw it as a priority, and thus supported it
    compliance with OD 4.15.                             through a guarantee.

                                                             Given Cartagena's high poverty levels, Management's first
                                                         response to the Request for Inspection showed that investments
                                                         made almost wholly benefit the poor. In Management's view this is
                                                         fully consistent with OD 4.15. Water and sewerage are, as stated, a
                                                         high priority of the current government administration, which
                                                         subscribes to the Millennium Development Goals that call for halving
                                                         of the number of people without access to water and sanitation by
                                                         2015.

                                                         Action: No action required.

OP/BP 10.02 ­ Financial Management
28. Financial Management Assessment and             368- Comment: In Management's view, the Bank fully met its financial
    Capacity of the District of Cartagena           373, management and assessment obligations under the Project. Bank
    Given the assumptions reflected in the          386  staff carried out a detailed assessment and financial projections of
    PAD--that about 55 percent of the funds to           the finances of the District, including a risk analysis. As a
    be made available by the District would              consequence of this analysis, the loan size was reduced to meet
    come from Unified Property Tax/Impuesto              the District's financial capacity. Its counterpart funding and loan
    Predial Unificado (IPU) revenues ­ the               repayment capacity were based on three income streams, two of
    Panel finds that the Bank should have paid           which depended on assured and stable central government
    more attention to the District's internal            transfers. The third stream, the IPU, was subject to collection
    control and management problems and                  difficulties as is the case in many cities in the region, but its
    should have carried out an in-depth                  significance was low since the share of IPU revenues going to the
    financial management assessment of the               Project only accounts for about 3 percent of the District's overall
    District... Since it did not, it did not comply      income.
    with its own policies and procedures set
    out in OP/BP 10.02. The Bank should then                  As part of Project supervision, the Bank has engaged annually

    have worked with the District on an action           an expert to review the financial position of the District and IPU

    plan to improve the District's property tax          collection performance since 2000. The expert also reviews fund

    registers and its billing and collection             availability through the quarterly reports submitted to ACUACAR on

    systems. Since the Bank was aware of the             the receipt and use of IPU resources. While IPU revenues were

    District's internal control and management           initially less than expected at appraisal, the strengthening of the

    problems, it should have required that               value of the peso resulted in an increase in dollar terms of the funds

    District, as the Borrower of the Bank Loan,          deposited to the Trust Fund. During the last two annual reviews by

    have its accounts and financial statements           the expert, he concluded that the Trust Fund was overcapitalized,

    audited by independent auditors each year            meaning that more money is available than necessary to meet

    and provide a copy of the audit report to            counterpart funding needs, and suggested a reduction in the level

    Bank. From a strict Project point of view,           of contribution. Using a conservative approach, the Bank did not

    the Bank carried out its due diligence in            implement this recommendation, since the Project's final costs were

    accordance with its policies and                     not yet known.

    procedures. However, it misjudged                         In 2004, the District made major progress on collecting arrears
    importance to the Project of improving the           of the IPU with the consequence that it reduced its other, non-Bank
    Borrower's capacity to collect the IPU               debt to nearly zero, further strengthening its financial position.
    taxes.                                               Counterpart funds have already been fully provided by ACUACAR

        The Panel notes that the Bank did not            and the District, and the Government of Colombia has provided

    pay sufficient attention to the design of the        more than 90 percent of its share. Management deems this a

    financial management information                     considerable achievement, since the Bank Loan is less than half

    requirements for the Project... The audit            disbursed. It is Management's assessment that the positive actual




                                                             29

          Colombia



No                   ISSUE/FINDING               Para
                                                 No.                           COMMENTS/ACTION

    report for the year ending December 31,           results (i.e., more than adequate capitalization of the Trust Fund,
    2003, provides an "unqualified opinion" on        and adequate reporting) confirm the Bank's judgment and
    the Project's Trust Fund Financial                approach.
    Statements. No evidence was found on file
    that the Bank had received this audit                  Management notes that the District's internal control and

    report.                                           management issues are more related to fiscal performance, e.g.,
                                                      municipal budget management, including revenue mobilization,
       In addition, in order for the national         than they are to financial management and the results to be
    Government to extend its guarantee to the         expected from a financial audit. It is Management's judgment that
    Loan Agreement, it first had to sign a            the engagement of another external auditor would not have yielded
    Counter-Guarantee Agreement with the              different conclusions from those reached by the District Controller.
    District of Cartagena under which the             Regarding the Trust Fund, Management has relied on the
    District, if it defaulted on the Bank Loan,       Borrower's own statutory auditing arrangements for financial
    would hand over to the Government the             intermediaries; the annual financial statements of the Trust Fund's
    funds it had pledged for this Project. The        administrator, La Previsora, were audited by a reputable private
    Loan, Project, and Guarantee Agreements           independent auditor. Therefore, the Bank has not requested a
    do not make any reference to this Counter-        separate audit report of the Trust Fund account.
    Guarantee Agreement, although this                    Regarding the Counter-Guarantee Agreement, all the obligations
    agreement contains a number of
    covenants that have a direct bearing on           of the Borrower regarding execution of the Project, Loan, financial
                                                      and other obligations are set forth in the Loan Agreement between
    Project implementation and loan
    repayments. The Panel is concerned that           the Bank and the Borrower. The only documents that govern the

    the Bank may have overlooked this matter.         Bank's rights and obligations are the agreements to which it is a
                                                      party. The Counter-Guarantee Agreement, to which the Bank is not a
                                                      party, is a contract between the Guarantor (the Republic of
                                                      Colombia) and the Borrower (the District), required internally in
                                                      Colombia, as a condition for the Guarantor to sign the Guarantee
                                                      Agreement with the Bank.

                                                      Action: Noting that it is a common practice, when working with
                                                      financial agents, to review audited financial information as part of
                                                      supervision activities, and since the Trust Fund account is reviewed
                                                      as part of the scope of work performed by the Trust Fund Manager's
                                                      auditor, the Bank will obtain and put on file annual audit reports of La
                                                      Previsora.

29. Project Financial and Accounting             375- Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    Statements                                   376  the Panel.
    The agreed institutional and financial
    arrangements for the Project specifically         Action: No action required.
    address uncertainties in the Requesters'
    complaint, and the processes followed
    comply with the Bank's OP 10.02.

       The District of Cartagena receives
    sufficient information and assistance from
    other Government institutions to manage
    adequately the partnership agreements.

30. Financial Management Assessment ­            389- Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    ACUACAR                                      390  the Panel.
    The Bank carried out an adequate financial
    management assessment on ACUACAR in               Action: No action required.
    accordance with Bank policies and
    procedures. With respect to supervision of
    ACUACAR, supervision reports on financial
    management are complete and
    informative. Aside from the shortcomings of
    audit reports that are noted elsewhere, the
    Bank has covered this aspect, including
    financial and operational internal control




                                                          30

                                                                        Management Report and Recommendation



No                 ISSUE/FINDING                   Para
                                                   No.                           COMMENTS/ACTION

    matters, very thoroughly.

31. Financial Capacity ­ACUACAR                    394  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    The Bank satisfactorily carried out its due         the Panel.
    diligence during Project preparation with
    regard to ascertaining ACUACAR's                    Action: No action required.
    financial capacity in line with its policies
    and procedures.

32. Risk of Default on the Bank Loan               401  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    At the time of Project preparation, the Bank        the Panel.
    carried out detailed financial analyses and
    projections, including sensitivity tests, on        Action: No action required.
    revenue and cost statements for the
    District of Cartagena and ACUACAR.

        The Bank adequately carried out
    financial projections for the District as well
    as for ACUACAR and reached satisfactory
    institutional arrangements to ensure proper
    Project financing and loan repayment. The
    Bank carried out its due diligence in line
    with OP/BP10.02.

OD/OP/BP 13.05 ­ Project Supervision
33. Bank Supervision of ACUACAR                    398  Comment: Management acknowledges the finding of compliance by
    The Bank closely supervises performance             the Panel.
    of ACUACAR and complies with OP/BP
    13.05 in this respect.                              Action: No action required.

34. Supervision of Audit Reports                   372- Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's finding on the
    The Panel finds that the Project               373, satisfactory quality of the Project supervision reports.
    supervision reports are generally              388-
    satisfactory and quite informative.            390      The finding regarding audit reports is limited to the lack of
                                                        separate opinions on the Project Management Reports (PMRs), as
        The Panel also finds that the decision          required by the Loan Agreement (4.01 b). The fact that audit opinions
    making within the Bank, as it refers to             of the PMRs were not issued separately from the overall audit
    accepting audit reports that are not fully in       opinion on the Project accounts does not mean that the PMRs were
    compliance with the requirements of the             not audited. An independent auditor (a leading global international
    Loan Agreement, did not follow Bank                 accounting network) carried out each year a full audit process of the
    procedures. Hence, it did not comply with           information contained in the PMRs, utilizing procedures applied to the
    its own policies and procedures set out in          distinct components of the Project financial statements, and issuing
    OP/BP 13.05.                                        audit opinions covering annual Project financial statements, which
                                                        provide documentation of the PMR audit as part of the overall Project
                                                        audit. The latest audit report for the Project was received on June 23,
                                                        2005, which addresses the financial year that closed on December
                                                        31, 2004.

                                                        Action: No action required.




                                                            31


                     MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
        IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
              COLOMBIA ­CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND
                        ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                         ANNEX 2

                         HOW AND WHY MARINE OUTFALLS WORK

1.      Marine outfalls rely primarily on currents and the size of receiving water bodies
to dilute effluents. Wastewater consists of 99.9 percent water and 0.1 percent of solids,
mostly dissolved and partly suspended. Effluent from a marine outfall immediately
undergoes very effective mixing processes and after a short distance from the discharge
point, loses its identity as effluent. Typical dilutions are more than 100:1, which is
equivalent to a 99 percent reduction in contaminant levels, far higher in terms of organic
matter than any conventional land-based treatment plant can accomplish.

2.      Field studies of operating outfalls show few measurable effects of discharged
sewage beyond a short distance from the discharge point. Results of five years of
measurements undertaken at two outfalls in Chile (Leppe, 1999) show that even as close
as 100 m from the discharge, water quality is virtually indistinguishable from natural sea
water. Treatment prior to discharge is similar to that proposed for Cartagena, i.e.,
preliminary treatment. The combination of pretreatment and long outfall is an effective
one.

3.      The effective elimination of pollutants at such a short distance from the outfall
discharge point is the result of a series of hydrodynamic dilution and biological decay
processes that occur in the marine environment. These processes, often referred to as near
field dilution, far field dilution, and bacterial decay, have been extensively studied
(Roberts, WQI Casebook, May/June, 1998). For a well designed outfall, dilutions
achieved within the near field, also sometimes known as initial dilution, are typically of
the order of hundreds or even thousands to one. The combination of near and far field
dilution is usually in the thousands. For example, the average concentration of Biological
Oxygen Demand (BOD) and of Total Suspended Solids (TSS) in the raw wastewater of
Cartagena, is about 250 mg/l for each. A dilution of 1,000:1 (a conservative estimate)
reduces the concentration of BOD and TSS to about 0.25 mg/l. The oxygen content of the
sea water, which is usually close to saturation (around 8 mg/l) would not be reduced
below 6 mg/l, even in a limited zone, and this would have no negative impact on marine
life. Organic matter, represented by BOD, will further dilute and decompose in the
marine environment.

4.      A conventional secondary treatment plant removes 80-90 percent of BOD. If
Cartagena wastewater were subject to secondary treatment then effluent would contain
approximately 25 mg/l BOD. After dilution (at the conservative estimate of 1,000), this
concentration would be reduced to 0.025 mg/l, compared with 0.25 mg/l for preliminary
treatment. The impact on the sea at either level remains negligible. Both are well below
the standards for Class 1 waters as defined in the Land-Based Sources Protocol of the
Cartagena Convention for the Protection and Development of the Marine Environment of
the Wider Caribbean Region.



                                            33

Colombia


5.       Contaminants in wastewater that may affect health are toxic chemicals and
bacteria. Concentrations of heavy metals and other toxic material in the raw wastewater
of Cartagena are lower than the levels prescribed by Colombian Law as permissible for
discharge to any receiving water body, and the heavy metals concentration is also lower
than the level permitted for potable water according to Decree 475 of 1998. These levels
will further decrease following dilution.

6.       Pathogenic bacterial contamination is the main public health risk resulting from
effluent discharge to the sea. The common indicator for pathogenic bacterial
contamination is fecal coliforms. The concentration of fecal coliforms in raw wastewater
is about 107 MPN/100 ml. After a dilution of 3,000 (the combined effect of near and far
field) the concentration of fecal coliforms is reduced to less that 104 MPN/100 ml, which
is still high. Outfalls help to address this problem through the physical dilution processes
and biological decay of bacteria, since the marine environment is hostile to them.
Bacterial die off is further controlled by appropriate selection of outfall length, since a
longer outfall means a longer travel time towards shore and thus a higher die off. A
properly designed outfall ensures control of bacterial contamination by maintaining the
concentration of fecal coliforms below permissible levels, while leaving only a small area
around the discharge point with higher values. Secondary treatment does not have a
meaningful impact on fecal coliforms, unless the secondary effluent is disinfected
through chlorination.




                                               34

                                                           Management Report and Recommendation


                    MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
         IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
              COLOMBIA ­CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND
                       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                             ANNEX 3

                          COMMENTARY ON "ANALYSIS OF THE
          PROPOSED WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: THE SUBMARINE OUTFALL"
     (ANNEX B OF THE INSPECTION PANEL'S INVESTIGATION REPORT, JUNE 2005)



Introduction

1.      Annex B of the Panel's Report contains an analysis of the waste disposal system's
submarine outfall design, with emphasis on predicted environmental impacts of the
waste, in particular coliform bacteria and nutrients. That Annex states that the Panel's
reviewer agrees with the calculations performed for near field dilution, but finds the far
field analysis unreliable, because near surface stratification of the water column was not
accounted for and the rate of decay of pathogens was overly optimistic. The analysis in
Annex B goes on to state that a different design for the outfall (e.g., an outfall extending
7000 meters offshore to a depth of 60 meters, with a 1520 meters diffuser having 152
ports) could provide a satisfactory solution for safe disposal of the nutrient, organic and
pathogen load. Annex B in the Panel's report also recommends verification of this
conclusion using a three-dimensional regional model with an embedded diffuser
algorithm and including simulations that incorporate the inflow from three adjacent
rivers, regional winds, open boundary conditions, and water stratification.

2.      Modeling the effect of the submarine outfall proposed under the Project is a
highly technical effort, the results of which are highly dependent on the assumptions used
and the quality of the data available as input to the model. Given the sensitivity and the
importance of predicting the effectiveness of the outfall, ACUACAR contracted an
independent expert specializing in the design of marine outfalls (also a member of the
POE) to review the modeling presented by Hazen and Sawyer in the Feasibility Study.
The expert presented a series of reports that supplemented this modeling with another
approach, which used new oceanographic data as they were received. The expert
submitted the final report, Dilution Modeling for the Cartagena Ocean Outfall, to
ACUACAR in October 2003 (reproduced as Annex 3 of Management's Response to the
Request for Inspection, May 2004). This same expert has reviewed Annex B and
provided the commentary that follows.

Commentary on Annex B of the Investigation Report5

3.      A distinction must be made between "pathogens" predicted to occur in the raw
sewage effluent and total coliforms. While total coliforms would occur at concentrations
of about 1011 per m3 (i.e., 107 per 100 ml), coliforms per se are not pathogens and the
concentration of pathogens in raw sewage is not 1011 per m3 (i.e., 107 per 100 ml) as
stated in Annex B of the Panel's Report. Annex B states that these "pathogens" must be

5Commentary prepared by Philip J. W. Roberts, PhD, PE, Consulting Engineer.


                                                35

Colombia


reduced to levels of "107 counts m-3" (i.e., 103 per 100 ml) for the water to be "safe for
human contact." These are not the design criteria used for this outfall, nor are they usual
outfall design criteria. The outfall is designed to meet the generally accepted bathing
water standards of the California Ocean Plan, which states that the level of total coliforms
should not exceed 103 per 100 ml for more than 20 percent of the time. The outfall will
also meet the new World Health Organization (WHO, 2003) bathing water standards for
Class A waters, which specify that the 95th percentile level of enterococci shall be less
than 40 per 100ml. Absolute bacterial levels are not used for outfall design.

4.      Annex B states that a bacterial decay rate (T90, the time for 90 percent of the
bacteria to decay) of 2 hours was used in the model simulations. This is not a correct
reflection of what was done; in fact, a diurnally varying T90 was used, ranging from 1.5
hours to 20 hours. The average T90 value was actually 11 hours, which is more
conservative.

5.      Annex B quotes evidence that coliforms regrow in water. The evidence stated,
however, appears to be for fresh water. No evidence that this regrowth can occur in a
marine environment is cited.

6.      The usual procedure for designing marine outfalls is to ensure that they meet
standards for bacterial indicators, such as total and fecal coliforms, and, more recently,
enterococci, all of which were considered in the outfall design.

7.      Although Annex B points out that the nutrient input from the proposed outfall is
negligible compared to that of the Magdalena River, it goes on to state that nutrient levels
must be reduced immediately (i.e., in the near field) to near background levels to avoid
any nutrient impacts on the receiving waters. This line of reasoning leads to a near field
dilution requirement of 1000:1. The assumption that nutrients must be immediately
reduced to background levels is neither a usual assumption nor a usual design criterion.
The basis for this assumption in Annex B is not clear; the author of this commentary
knows of no marine outfalls that have been designed with this requirement nor of any
marine outfalls designed to more usual criteria that have caused nutrient water quality
problems. Calculations provided in Annex B reach the same conclusion concerning
dilution criteria for BOD, but, again, the assumption that BOD must be immediately
reduced to background levels seems to be arbitrary and has little or no precedent.

8.      Section 4.1 of Annex B states: "The proponents arrived at the proposed outfall
design after extensive analysis and modeling under the assumption that the water column
in the area of the outfall was well-mixed vertically." This assertion is incorrect; density
stratification was used in the near field model to determine near field dilution and plume
rise height. The procedure is described in Roberts and Carvalho, 2000. The stratification
was usually too weak, however, to prevent the plume from surfacing and the plume was
usually predicted to be at the water surface.

9.      Annex B uses Figure 8a, reproduced from Roberts (Dilution Modeling for the
Cartagena Ocean Outfall, October 2003) to show "...strong stratification (0.2 to 1.0
kg/m3) over the top 3 to 5 meters of the water column in about 50% of the profiles." This



                                             36

                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


appears to be a puzzling conclusion to have been drawn from that figure. In fact, the
individual profiles (Annex 4 of Hazen and Sawyer, 1998) usually show little stratification
over the water column, and the top 5 meters show only occasionally stronger
stratifications. Thus, the estimates in Annex B of the magnitude and frequency of
stratification in the upper layer are considerable overestimates.

10.     Annex B presents an analysis of surface wind-induced currents that include the
effects of near-surface stratification as represented by the buoyancy frequency, N:

                                      L = 0.429u*N2/3t5/3

where L is the distance traveled under a wind that results in a friction velocity u* in time
t. This equation is then used with estimates of onshore wind speed and frequency to
estimate onshore travel. As discussed above, however, the values of N are overestimates,
leading to overestimates of onshore travel. For periods of "tranquil winds," calculations
in Annex B consider buoyant spreading of the plume to be the dominant mechanism
transporting it to shore. The author of this commentary questions these methods and
assumptions. First, the analysis presented is for single plumes and neglects plume
merging, and second, the analysis does not account for effects of interfacial friction on
the spreading layer that will slow the rate at which the surface spreads. Even allowing for
these factors, it is unrealistic to assume that buoyant spreading will dominate for long
time periods and that there will be no surface currents during periods of calm winds. For
example, records of the Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler show currents exceeding 5
cm/s for 87 percent of the time; the surface layer will not be stationary when there are no
winds.

11.     Even if one were to accept all the assumptions and methods used in Annex B, the
conclusion that bacterial standards will be exceeded at the shoreline for 75 percent of the
time is highly misleading. This is a cumulative number. In other words, this statement
means that the standard may be exceeded at some point along the coastline for 75 percent
of the time. This is not relevant to water quality occurring at a specified location, and
water quality standards are neither written nor interpreted in this way. The standards refer
to the frequency of exceedance at a particular location. These exceedances are computed
and presented in this way in the Project's modeling reports, which show much lower
values than those in Annex B. Even using the methods put forth in Annex B, the
frequencies of exceedance at any particular location would be much lower than the
stated value of 75 percent.

12.     Annex B states that winds were neglected in the Project's analyses. This is only
partially true. The actual current records, which include wind effects, were used to predict
transport of the waste. Measured currents very near to the surface were not used,
however, nor were wind records explicitly used to predict current movement very near to
the surface. These phenomena will be further investigated through the use of wind
records extending over a period of several years.

13.     Annex B assumes winds from the north (the prevalent wind direction) are
onshore, even though the closest shoreline to the south is about 20 kilometers away. The


                                              37

Colombia


conclusions of Annex B imply, however, that this wind will bring the plume to nearby
shores. The assumption that northerly winds are onshore and have an impact on the shore
near Punta Canoa is not considered correct by the author of this commentary.

14.     Computations of water quality modeling in coastal waters are difficult and subject
to different interpretation. Depending on the assumptions made, different outfall and
diffuser designs, particularly the lengths of the outfall and diffuser, can be obtained.
Annex B recommends that a three-dimensional model be used to investigate the design
further. Three-dimensional models are not frequently used in outfall design. They are
difficult to set up and to validate reliably and also require extensive data, particularly at
the open ocean boundary, and particularly in deep stratified water. Three-dimensional
models can be valuable in assessing area-wide questions of water quality, such as nutrient
impacts. Given that the nutrient load is so small compared to other sources, however,
there is little reason to expect impacts from nutrient levels here. Because near field
dilutions are typically very high--with median values of dilution ranging from 230:1 to
250:1 in the four years during which oceanographic studies were conducted--the main
water quality concerns due to outfalls are associated with bacterial transport to the
beaches. The Lagrangian models used for the Project have been successfully and
frequently used in outfall design.

15.     It is agreed that more attention will be given to the surface waters. This will be
accomplished by performing more model simulations that explicitly take into account
winds measured in the vicinity of the proposed outfall. A surface current of around 3
percent of the wind speed (a usual engineering assumption) will be added to the currents
measured by the Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler to simulate near-surface water
motions. The simulations previously presented will be repeated to assess the effects of the
winds.



References:

Roberts, P. J.W., and J.L. Carvalho, 2000. "Modeling of Ocean Outfall for Cartagena,
Colombia." Report Prepared for ACUACAR, June 23, 2000.

Hazen and Sawyer. 1998. "Estudio de Factibilidad para el Tratamiento de las Aguas
Residuales de Cartagena y para la Disposición Final del Efluente al Mar Adyacente a
través de un Emisario Submarino."




                                             38

                                           Management Report and Recommendation


              MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
    IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON
         COLOMBIA ­CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND
                ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                ANNEX 4

EN BREVE (MAY 2003), COLOMBIA: EXPANDING SERVICES TO LOW-INCOME AREAS




                                  39


     INTERNATIONALBANK
                      FOR


  WORLD BANK

R
 E                           T
  C                         N
   O                       E
    N
     STRUCTION           PM


               AND DEVELO

                                 May 2003 No. 24


                           A regular series of notes highlighting recent lessons emerging from the operational and
                                analytical program of the World Bank`s Latin America and Caribbean Region



            COLOMBIA: EXPANDING SERVICES TO LOW-INCOME AREAS
                       COMPARING PRIVATE AND PUBLIC WATER UTILITIES

                                                       Maria Angelica Sotomayor



   Colombia is one of the most active Latin American countries            Their performance from these start dates, until 1999, was
   in incorporating private sector participation (PSP) in manag-          compared with the most efficient public utilities in the coun-
   ing water utilities. One of the community's main concerns is           try: Bogotá (which provided information regarding water
   that reforms that treat water and sanitation services as an            and sewerage), Medellín (excluding the metropolitan area)
   economic asset rather than as a social good and that allow             and Manizales (both of which provided information only on
   providers to apply commercial (profit-oriented) criteria, may          water).
   tend to restrict access to the services for low-income users,
   because they are not perceived as                                                                Methodology and Results
   attractive business clients by private
   entrepreneurs.
                                                                                                    The study reviewed the extent to
   The government is embarking on a                                                                 which the utilities had expanded ser-
   water sector modernization program                                                               vices to the poor in the six cities. In
   whose strategy is to promote PSP in                                                              Colombia, for utility rates purposes,
   water utilities. One of its objectives                                                           the population in each municipality
   is to expand and improve the provi-                                                              is divided into six strata. The poor-
   sion of services to the poor, so it was                                                          est users are in stratum 1, the richest
   considered necessary to find out if                                                              are in stratum 6. Water and sewer-
   the common perception of the popu-                                                               age tariffs are subsidized in strata 1
   lation and the concern of the com-                                                               to 3, by law. The study used these
   munity that the private sector fo-                                                               strata to measure coverage of the
   cuses on providing good services to the wealthy and neglects           poor. Increases in the number of new connections per stra-
   the poor, is anchored in reality and consistent with the               tum made by each company between 1995 and 1999 were
   performance of privatized utilities in Colombia. A study was           compared. Another criterion ­ changes in coverage in each
   carried out during project preparation to test this perception         stratum by city ­ was also explored. There are problems
   against actual experience.                                             with the data needed for this calculation, particularly be-
                                                                          cause the utility companies sometimes use a different stratifi-

   Comparing Private and Public Service Provision                         cation from the official one, as part of a commercial strategy
                                                                          of restratifying in order to lower rates and collect a higher
                                                                          volume of payments for water and sewage disposal services.
   The study objective was to compare the performance of pri-
   vate and public service providers with regard to expansion             The study found that both the public and the private utilities
   of services in low-income areas. The private water and                 focused their expansion efforts on low income groups (strata
   sewerage companies operators in Cartagena, Barranquilla,               1 to 3). With respect to water expansion to low income ar-
   and Tunja were selected, because they were the first to take           eas, the private utilities' performance was similar to that of
   on the management of large city systems in Colombia. The               Medellín, one of the most efficient public providers in the
   ACUACAR Company began operating in Cartagena in                        country. Privately run utilities focused their expansion of
   1995. The AAA started operating in Barranquilla in 1996,               water and sewage connections on users in stratum 1,
   and in Tunja private sector involvement began in 1997.                 Medellín and Manizales focused on stratum 2, and Bogotá


                                                                                                                                           1

 on users in stratum 3.                                                                                                                                               operators in Cartagena, Barranquilla and Tunja with Bogotá
                                                                                                                                                                      (public). As in the case of water, Figure 2 shows that the
 Figure 1 shows the distribution of new water connections by                                                                                                          bulk of new sewerage connections made by the three pri-
 stratum over four years, 1995 to 1999. In the case of the                                                                                                            vately operated utilities between 1995 and 1999 benefit us-
 private providers, over 45% of new water connections were                                                                                                            ers in strata 1, 2, and 3. (The data cover 1996 to March
 for stratum 1, similar to the most efficient public provider,                                                                                                        2000 in the case of AAA, the water utility of Barranquilla.)
 Medellín. The figure for the other two public providers was                                                                                                          New sewerage connections by the private companies fo-
                                                                                                                                                                                                      cused significantly on stratum
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 users: 31% in Cartagena,
                                                                                                                   Figure 1 - Who benefited from the incremental water connections?                   27% in Barranquilla, and 22%
                                                                                                                                               (1995-99)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tunja, compared to 7% in
                                                                                               70%
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bogotá. Most of the new sew-

                                                                                               60%                                                                                                    erage connections in Tunja
   tions                                                                                                                                                    - Bogota - EAAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                      were for stratum 2 users
                                                                                                                                                            - Medellín EPM(ESP)
                                                                                               50%                                                                                                    (53%), the stratum 2 share was
        onnecc                                                                                                                                              - Manizales
                                                                                                                                                                                                      50% in Cartagena, 30% in
              er
                                                                                               40%                                                          - Cartagena - ACUACAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bogotá and 13% in
                wat                                                                                                                                         - Barranquilla - AAA
                   of                                                                                                                                                                                 Barranquilla. As with water,
                                                                                               30%                                                          - Tunja-Sera.q.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                      stratum 3 received the lion's

                                                                                               20%                                                                                                    share (66%) of new sewerage
                     mumber
                                                                                                                                                                                                      connections in Bogotá. In
                           in
                                                                                               10%                                                                                                    Barranquilla stratum 3 re-
                             ease                                                                                                                                                                     ceived 30% of new connec-
                                 incr                                                          0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                      tions; in Cartagena 21% and in
                                                                                                   Stratum 1        Stratum 2        Stratum 3         Stratum 4         Stratum 5     Stratum 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tunja 8%.
                                                                                              -10%
                                     entagec
                                            erP                                               -20%                                                                                                    The study also reviewed the
                                                                                                                                                                                                      overall expansion of coverage
 11% in Bogotá and 8% in Manizales. Strata 1 and 2 com-                                                                                                               by stratum from 1995 to 1999. The total number of water
 bined accounted for 80% of new connections in Cartagena;                                                                                                             connections increased 38% in Barranquilla, 31% in
 the proportion in Medellín; but it was only 57% in                                                                                                                   Cartagena, and 12% in Tunja, while the increase in cities
 Manizales and 40% in Bogotá. Most of the new connec-                                                                                                                 with publicly-run utilities was 25% in Medellín, 25% in
 tions in Bogotá (55%) were for stratum 3 users (who receive                                                                                                          Manizales, and 23% in Bogotá.
 lower subsidies) and cans not really be defined as poor. The
 percentage of new connections in stratum 3 was 22% in                                                                                                                A breakdown by strata shows how the private utilities have
 Manizales, 16% in Medellín, 22% in Barranquilla, 12% in                                                                                                              greatly improved stratum 1 users' access to both piped water
 Cartagena, and 7% in Tunja.                                                                                                                                          and sewerage services. Comparing the number of currently
                                                                                                                                                                      existing connections with the number at the start of the PSP
 For sewerage services, the study compares the private sector                                                                                                         process, the data show that stratum 1 water connections in-
                                                                                                                                                                                             creased 104% in Cartagena and 89% in
                                                                                                                                                                                             Barranquilla, following a trend set by
                                                                                                        Figure 2 - Who benefited from the incremental sewerage connections?
                                                                                                                                       (1995-99)                                             Medellín (187%), while in Tunja they
                                                                                               70%                                                                                           increased by almost 50%, compared
                                               tions                                                                                                                                         with 16% in Manizales and 70% in
                                                                                               60%                                                                                           Bogotá (see Figure 3).
                                                    onnecc
                                                                                               50%                                                     - Bogota - EAAB                       Access to sewerage services also in-
                                                          age                                                                                          - Cartagena - ACUACAR
                                                             er                                                                                                                              creased considerably. Figure 4 shows
                                                                                               40%
                                                                                                                                                       - Barranquilla - AAA                  that the total number of connections
                                                               sew
                                                                  of                                                                                   - Tunja-Sera.q.a                      rose 38% in Barranquilla, 23% in
                                                                                               30%
                                                                                                                                                                                             Cartagena, and 2% in Bogotá. For stra-
                                                                                                                                                                                             tum 1, the increase was 235% in
                                                                                               20%
                                                                    mumber                                                                                                                   Cartagena (over four years) and 146%
                                                                          in
                                                                                               10%                                                                                           in Barranquilla (over three years).
                                                                            ease                                                                                                             These increases are not strictly compa-
                                                                                incr            0%                                                                                           rable with the smaller increases in
                                                                                                    Stratum 1    Stratum 2     Stratum 3      Stratum 4     Stratum 5         Stratum 6      Bogotá, given that Barranquilla and
                                                                                              -10%                                                                                           Cartagena started the period with far
                                                                                    entagec
                                                                                           erP                                                                                               lower coverage levels than Bogotá.
                                                                                              -20%


2

                                                                                                   Figure 3 - Coverage Increment per Stratum - Residential and Total - Water
                                                                                                                                    (1995-99)

                                                                200%


                                                                                                                                  - Bogota - EAAB

                                                                                                                                   - Medellín EPM(ESP)
                                   ement 150%
                                                                                                                                   - Manizales
                                   incr
                                                                                                                                   - Cartagena - ACUACAR
                                       agerevoc                 100%                                                               - Barranquilla - AAA

                                                                                                                                   - Tunja-Sera.q.a
                                               er

                                                 wat
                                                    of           50%


                                                      ntageecreP   0%

                                                                       Stratum 1         Stratum 2        Stratum 3         Stratum 4           Stratum 5      Stratum 6      Residential       Total


                                                                 -50%


However, it is revealing that Bogotá increased sewerage                                                                                streamlined their work force and had a major positive im-
connections by 46% for stratum 1 and by 56% for stratum 6,                                                                             pact on poor households. Since the private operator took
whereas in Cartagena and Barranquilla the increases in total                                                                           over in Cartagena, 98% of new connections were in strata 1
connections for stratum 6 were only 2% and 6%, respec-                                                                                 and 2. In Barranquilla the corresponding figure was 86%,
tively.                                                                                                                                in Tunja 79%, and in another private utility, Santa Marta,
                                                                                                                                       over 50%.

Conclusions
                                                                                                                                       It should be explained that when the private operators took
                                                                                                                                       over the utilities in Cartagena and Barranquilla, coverage
This study found that private utilities are responding to the                                                                          was lowest among low-income inhabitants, as in most cities
service needs of users at all income levels. In fact, most new                                                                         in Latin America. As the private operators sought to in-
                                                                                                                                       crease coverage in compliance with their contracts, the way
                                                                                                                                                                     to do so was necessarily by in-
                                                                            Figure 4 - Coverage Increment per Stratum - Residential and Total - Sewerage             creasing the number of new con-
                                                                                                              (1995-99)                                              nections in the poorest, least well
                                                                200%                                                                                                 covered areas. In Cartagena, cov-
                                                                                                                                                                     erage of strata 1 and 2 rose from
  ement                                                                                                                        - Bogota - EAAB
                                                                                                                                                                     65% to 85%. Analysis of new
       incr 150%                                                                                                               - Cartagena - ACUACAR
                                                                                                                                                                     connections shows clearly that,
                                                                                                                               - Barranquilla - AAA
       age                                                                                                                                                           even without contractual obliga-
          ervoc                                                                                                                - Tunja-Sera.q.a                      tions expressly requiring opera-
                                                                100%                                                                                                 tors to serve inhabitants in strata
               age                                                                                                                                                   1 and 2 (as in Cartagena and
                  er
                                                                                                                                                                     Barranquilla), users in these strata
                    sew
                       of                                        50%                                                                                                 are receiving connections at a
                                                                                                                                                                     pace similar to that of Medellín,
                                                                                                                                                                     and even higher than that of areas
                         entagec                                   0%
                                erP                                                                                                                                  covered by other public utilities,
                                                                      Stratum 1  Stratum 2   Stratum 3   Stratum 4   Stratum 5   Stratum 6     Residential  Total    such as in Bogotá and Manizales.

                                                                 -50%                                                                                                It should also be noted that in the
                                                                                                                                                                     period under review all utilities
connections by privately run utilities benefited users in stra-                                                                        received national and/or local government support for con-
tum 1. It can be asserted that privately operated utilities                                                                            necting new low-income users. Irrespective of who paid for
have not impaired the interests of low-income users, specifi-                                                                          the new connections in strata 1 and 2 made by the Cartagena
cally those in strata 1 and 2. In five years of private partici-                                                                       and Barranquilla utilities, it remains true that these private
pation in the water and sanitation sector in Colombia, mu-                                                                             utilities substantially raised the number of connections for
nicipalities with private operators have improved their cov-                                                                           stratum 1 in a relatively short period of time, which was not
erage and continuity of service indicators substantially,                                                                              achieved in most of the public utilities in the country. Users


                                                                                                                                                                                                         3

 in strata 1 and 2 are better off than they were prior to the ar-   ity and are less efficient in allocating resources, causing de-
 rival of the private sector operators, because their publicly-     lays in expansion of coverage that negatively affect the low-
 run predecessors had excluded the low income strata for            income population, which is the segment least likely to have
 years. In many cases, poor public sector incentives and in-        access to the services under publicly-run utilities.
 efficiency of public utilities impeded expansion even with
 subsidies and government transfers, whereas private opera-                                     *******
 tors have greater incentives to invest in low-income areas, to
 increase market volume.
                                                                    Water Supply and Sanitation
                                                                    in Latin America and the Caribbean
 Private utilities are generally more efficient than public utili-
                                                                    Reducing poverty is not possible without delivery of clean
 ties for a number of reasons:
                                                                    water to the 1.1 billion people who currently do not have
                                                                    access to it. Nearly three-quarters of the poor people liv-
 ·     Public utilities sometimes become political fortresses
                                                                    ing in rural areas worldwide do not have access to clean
       of the government. They are subject to political inter-      water or to reliable sanitation services. As a consequence,
       ference in decision-making, especially with respect to       more than three million die each year of avoidable, water-
       the appointment and withdrawal of managers. They             borne diseases.
       tend to be overstaffed and to siphon off budget funds
       to cover administrative costs, preventing funds from         In the Latin America and Caribbean region (LAC), it is es-
       being directed to new investment.                            timated that 76 million of the region's 510 million people
                                                                    do not have access to safe water and 116 million lack ac-
 ·     Often, the rates charged for services do not cover oper-     cess to sanitation services. Clean water is in very short
       ating and investment costs. Municipal authorities are        supply in many places. In towns and cities, where people
       unwilling to face the political costs of rates hikes.        depend on elaborate systems of aqueducts, pipes, treat-
                                                                    ment plants and sewers to get their water, the needs are
 ·     At best, rates only cover operating and maintenance          pressing: 26 million people living in urban areas don't
       costs and the municipality is supposed to provide funds      have an improved source of water, and 50 million don't
       to the public utility for investment and to cover defi-      have sewerage service. Often, the poorest must pay in-
       cits. Usually these funds barely cover very short-term       flated prices for water delivered by truck to their un-
       investments or contingencies.                                served settlements. In fact, poor people in the developing
                                                                    world pay on average 12 times more per liter of water
 ·     Public operators put off investing in new connections        bought than fellow citizens connected to municipal sys-

       due to lack of funds or because users have problems          tems. In slums around many cities, the cost of water ac-

       complying with current regulations. Would-be users           counts for a large part of household expenses ­ 18 percent

       must have title deeds and a building registration certifi-   in Onitsha, Nigeria and 20 percent in Port-au-Prince,

       cate before properties can be connected. In the specific     Haiti.

       case of Bogotá, the last administration regularized the
       status of 300 irregular districts, paving the way for wa-    The lack of coverage for quality water and sanitation ser-

       ter distribution and sewage disposal connections for al-     vices has an impact on the environment, as well. In Brazil,

       most 500,000 people. Barranquilla and Cartagena each         where there is a great disparity between the rich and the

       have a large number of "informal" districts. Neverthe-       poor in terms of the levels of coverage and quality of ser-

       less, private operators have taken steps to mitigate the     vices, less than 20 percent of wastewater is treated and the

       effects of this and do not make legalization of proper-      remainder is deposited into other nearby bodies of water.

       ties a condition of access to service. Some of those
       steps include shared connections or outlets, often for a
       whole block, from which water is then distributed to
       neighbors. An average rate is charged for water con-        More Information
       sumption. Communities organize themselves and con-
       trol both consumption and collection of payments.
                                                                    Learn more about out work in Water and Sanitation at:

 It has been shown that PSP processes rapidly achieve im-                           http://www.worldbank.org/lac
 provements in coverage rates and the quality of services, es-                                     and
                                                                                 http://www.worldbank.org/watsan/
 pecially in municipalities which used to be particularly defi-
 cient in these respects. Raising the number of users in all
 strata is part of the commercial strategy of private operators.   About the Author
 The low-income population thus benefits rapidly because it
 constitutes a new clientele. In addition, private operators can    Maria Angelica Sotomayor is an economist in the Water and
 more easily tap short-term funds to invest in new connec-          Sanitation Cluster of the Latin America and the Caribbean
 tions. Public utilities generally have less investment capac-      Region of the World Bank.


4

