Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9078
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
MADAGASCAR ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION
AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1155-MAG
Africa Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CFC     -   Centre de Formation en Comptabilite
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
CSR     -   Supreme Revolutionary Council
DNEC    -   National Expert Accountant's Diploma
EC      c   Expert Comptable
INSCAE  -   Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de
l'Administration des Enterprises
MPFE    -   Ministry at the Presidency Responsible for Economic
and Finance
NPC     =   National Code of Accounts
PCR     =   Project Completion Report
RINDRA  -   Public Sector Management Consultancy and Accountancy Firm



you omcizL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
office d Dnvcgvr.C.gai
Optatmt bvakaatnm
October 12, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Madagascar -
Madagascar Accounting and Audit Organization
and Training Proiect (Credit 1155-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Madagascar - Madagascar Accounting and Audit Organization
and Training Project (Credit 1155-MAG)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                                            '
Thui document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane
of their offlcal dutis Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without Word ank authorintion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
MADAGASCAR ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION
AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1155-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .................   i
Evaluation Summary .................                                                          ii
PART I:         OVERVIEW AND BANK'S  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT  .... ....                       1
1.      Project Identity  .....................................                        1
2.      Background  ...........             ................................           1
3.      Project Objectives  and Description  ...................                       2
4.      Project Design and Organization  ......................                        2
5.      Project Implementation  ...............................                        3
6.      Project Results  ......................................                        5
7.      Project Sustainability  ...............................                        6
8.      Bank Performance  .....................................                        6
9.      Borrower Performance  .................................                        7
10. Project Relationships.                                                             7
11.    Conclusions, Recommendations and Lessons Learned                                7
ANNEX:    GOVERNMENT COMMENTS ON BANK REPORT.                                                   9
PART II:        GOVERNMENT'S  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT  ....                    ...........    13
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ..............................    60
1.      Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  .......                  .............    60
2.      Project Timetable  ...................................                        61
3.      Credit Disbursements  .................................                       63
4.      Project Implementation  ...............................    64
5.      Project Cost and Financing  ............                ...............    66
6.      Project Results  ...................................                          67
7.      Status of Covenants  ..................................                       72
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
MADAGASCAR ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1155 - HAG
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Madagascar
Accounting and Audit Organization and Training Project, for which Credit in
the amount of SDR 9,400,000 was approved on June 11, 1981. The Credit was
closed on November 10, 1989, one year and six months behind schedule. As of
that date there was an outstanding balance of SDR 9261 i.e. less than 0.1%
of the Credit, which was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by AF3PH (Preface, Basic Data Sheet, Evaluation
Summary, Part I Overview and Bank's Report, and Part III Statistical Annex)
and the Borrower (Part II - Government's Project Completion Report).
Preparation of this PCR started during the Bank's last supervision
mission in 1989 and is based inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Development Credit Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and on an extensive
case study prepared by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department 1/ as
part of a broader study of technical assistance projects in Africa.
The Borrower was provided a copy of the Bank's contribution to the
PCR to comment on. The Government provided some comments which were
primarily explanatory in nature. There was no significant difference of
opinion between the Government and the Bank. A translation of the
Government's letter as well as the original letter in French is provided at
the end of the Part I.
1/ Madagascar: Evaluation du Prolet Organisation et Formation en Comptablit6 et Revision
(Cr6dit 1156), Operations Evaluation Department, The World Bank



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REYORT
MADAGASCAR
!4ADAGASCAR ACCOUNTING AND AUD:T ORGANIZATIOS AND TRAINING PROJECT
CRBDXT 1155 - MAG
EVALUATION SUOMYRY
Obiective
The objective of the project was to encourage the practice of modern
accounting and auditing by upgrading the professional skills of accountants
and auditors, and the *etablishment of a management consulting capability
so as to help develop officient management, planning and financial control.
The project had four componentst
(a) the enactment of modarn accountancy legislation;
(b)  the establishment of an accounting school (Centre de Formation en
Comptabilit6 - CFC);
(c) the strengthening of the qualifications of the national auditing firm
through training and other forms of assistance, and its expansion
through the addition of a management consulting division; and
(d) the strengthening of the management services capability of selected
consulting firms through technical assistance in the fields of
financial systems and procedures.
Implementation Experience
Implmentation of all components required the services of foreign
consulting firms. There were delays in the implementatLon of component A
partly because solecting the consultant for drafting the legislation took
longer than expected. Use of a consulting firm for component B had not
been planned but proved necessary to avoid excessive delays. This caused a
significant cost overrun for component B. Canadian and French consultants
made important contributions to component C.
The government was so pleased by the success of the CFC that in 1984 it
requested that the Bank finance the addition to CFC of a graduate school of
managment. This was accepted (Credit MAO 1661) and the institution
renamed Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de l'Administration
des Entrepriess (INSCAE). Tho size of component n was significantly
reduced in the course of the project, but two firms were successfully aided
with the help of two French consulting firms.
The borrcoer cooperated satisfactorily throughout the project.
Results
Overall the project should be viewed as a success. Modern accounting
legislation adapted to the country's needs is in place and in the progress
of being made effective. Rules governing the accountancy profession are
being updated and local accountancy qualifications established.
The accountancy school, formerly CFC, now INSCAE has produced more than 300
graduates of good quality and been expanded  - nclude a two-year MBA
program.



iii
The national accounting firm RINDRA has greatly benefitee from the
technical assistance received and is widely recognized for the quality of
its auditing and consulting services. RINDRh operations would be
profitable if it were not for the interest on the on-lending by the
government of the proceeds of the Credit on terms that proved to be too
onerous, and the amortization of the technical resistance received. RINDRA
was expected to buy expertise at world market prices and sell the acquired
expertise at the depressed prices paid for such services in the
underdeveloped market of a poor country.
The unexpectedly higher cost of component B required a reallocation of
funds among components resulting in a significant reduction of funds
available for component D. Two private consulting firms, however, did
receive specialized technical assistance that enhanced their competence.
Sustainability
The accountancy legislation is in place and effective as of Januar 1,
1989. Some provisions concerning the accounting profession are still in
the process of being enacted.
INSCAE's (CFC) operating costs are still largely financed through Credit
(MAG 1661) but government support will increase annually. When HAG 1661 is
closed, INSCAE is expected to be fully supported by government funds and
its own revenues.
RINDRA's financial position is hopeless unless its debt to the government
is drastically reduced. The debt may be converted to equity allowing
RINDRA to become a private sector firm with a significant government stake
in it if it is to continue as a financially viable accounting firm.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The political difficulties of introducing an accountancy law without the
full cooperation of the existing accounting profession had not been
foreseen. The profession, although very small, had significant political
influence. The start up costs of the CFC far exceeded the original
estimates because the problems of procuring needed technical assistance had
been underestimated. The on lending arrangements for RINDRA proved too
costly; it was impossible for the firm to absorb the full costs of foreign
technical assistance and remain competitive in local markets.
Both the Borrower and the Bank view the project as a success with some
caveats. The major unresolved problem was that while the accountancy code
was changed commercial law has not been changed tc conform to the new code.
This issue has been taken up under Credit-1661 the follow on Credit to
1155.



PART I
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION
AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT NUMBER 1155 MAG
OVERVIEW AND BANK'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.   Project Identity
Name              Accounting and Audit Organization
and Training Project
Credit Number      1155 MAG
RVP Unit          AF3PH
Country           Madagascar
Sector            Education
2.   Background
2.01 Immediately after independence in 1960, Madagascar's government
encouraged investments in commerce and industry.  As a result, value aided
in the industrial sector increased from 5% of GNP in 1960 to about 17% in
1977.
2.02 The change in government in 1972 resulted in major policy changes,
and many French managers and, technicians had left by 1975, when major
foreign-owned enterprises were nationalized.  Top management and accounting
positions were then filled by people with inadequate experience. In the
years that followed, many public enterprises suffered from weak financial
management and were either unable to produce reliable financial statements
or prepared financial statements only after excessive delays.
2.03 Although an accounting profession had been established by law in
1962, the profession had only 36 members, some with obviously inadequate
qualifications, and no new admissions since 1971. Neither the university
nor any other institution offered any professional level of training in
accounting. Accounting at the University was not oriented to a
professional qualification.
2.04 In the late '70s, the government took measures to ensure greater
control over the newly nationalized industries and established a national
audit company, RINDRA, in 1979. RINDRA was to provide audit services
mainly to government owned and controlled companies.



2
2.05 In 1976, the government requested Bank assistan-e to finance
technical assistance to RINDRA by the international accounting fir.n. Since
this assistance was to be financed retroactively and the fees involved
viewed excessive, the Bank initially declined. The Bank did, however,
approve a subsequently submitted comprehensive accountancy project which
aimed at reforming accounting related laws, establishing a professional
school of accountancy, strengthening the effectiveness of RINDRA and
upgjrading the expertise of Malagasy management consulting firms. The
project was appraised on May 11, 1981.
3.   Project Objectives and DGscription
3.01 The long run objective of the project was to assist in the
improvement of business management through more effective accounting in
both nationalized and private sectors. The project had the following four
components?
(a)  A review of the existing accounting requirements for various
types of enterprises and of the professional standards required
from accountants and auditors, and the preparation and
implementation of appropriate requirements in this respect,
including proposals for legislation which, inter alia, would
require enterprises in Madagascar to prepare audited accounts in
accordance with specified standards and classification of
accounts under a national accounting code.
(b)  Establishment and operation of an accounting training center
(Centre de Formation en Comptabilitd) in Antananarivo, staffing
thereof and the provision of training books and other course
materials, supplies, services and equipment required for its
operation.
(c)  Strengthening of RINDRA's audit activities through the provision
of training and other assistance to its staff. To finan-7e these
services, the government was to on lend to RINDRA USS 3.7
million of the loan proceeds at 12% p.a. to be repaid in ten
years. The borrower would bear the exchange risk.
(d)  Strengthening of the management services capability of selected
management consulting firms through the provision of training
and other services in the fields of financial systems and
procedures under sub-projects to be approved by the Association,
and a feasibility study for the establishment of a public
management consulting firm.
4. Project DesiLgn and Organization
4.01 The project was well-designed and apparently well-understood by all
parties concerned. It was innovative in trying to create the prerequisites
for the effective use of accounting as a planning and control tool by
business management and the government. In this context, it addressed
simultaneously the legislative, educational and professional dimension of
the accounting function. It was also innovative in the sense that the



3
Anglo-Saxon concept of an audit was to be introduced in a society that
hitherto was not acquainted with modern accounting and auditing.
4.02 The original project design was sound but unrealistic with regard to
the technical assistance cost estimates of component B; staffing the CFC
proved much costlier than anticipated. The assumption that the entire
Malagasy teaching staff could be trained locally was wrong. Extensive
overseas training was necessary to assure an adequately qualified teaching
staff. Originally, the CFC was to hire its foreign Director General and
teaching staff individually. When this proved impossible, a consulting
firm was retained to recruit both the CFC's director and its foreign
faculty.
4.03 The recurrent cost per student originally estimated at USS 2000.00
will be below that amount when the school no longer needs foreign teachers.
Expectations with regard to RINDRA's ability to reimburse the loan advanced
by the government to finance its technical assistance were totally
unrealistic. Project planners were also too optimistic with regard to the
time required to pass a comprehensive accountancy legislation (including
required changes in the commercial law code).
4.04 With the exception of the shortcomings mentioned, the project's
conception and design were sound and contributed to its success.
4.05 In 1983, the government requested and the Bank agreed to extend the
assistance to RINDRA to include the creation of a management consulting arm
which was to be operated as a division of RINDRA. This expansion of RINDRA
replaced the originally planned feasibility study lor the establishment of
a public consulting firm (Omega).
4.06 In 1985, the Bank co-financed with the Canadian bilateral aid agency,
CIDA (or ACDI to use its French acronym), at the government's request, a
feasibility study concerning the expansion of CFC into a graduate school of
management through the addition of a two-year MBA program. This
modification of the project, which involved changing the name of the CFC
into INSCAE (Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de
l'Administration d'Entreprises) was approved. With some delay, the
necessary legislation was passed and the two-year MBA program started in
1988. INSCAE will be financed mainly under Credit 1661-MAG; there will be
significant cc-financing by ACDI and France.
5.   Project Implementation
5.01 Critical variances in project implementation
5.02 Component A (Accounting Legislation): the Bank rightfully considered
timely implementation of the legislation as a prerequisite for the success
of components B and C. Serious delays were experienced because it took two
years to identify and hire the consulting firm which was to prepare the
proposals for the accounting legislation. The local accounting profession,
concerned that new laws may threaten its status, exerted considerable
influence to modify and delay the legislation. Although most of the
required legislation was enacted at the project completion date, important
parts were still missing. These include provisions regulating accees to the



4
profession and the precise definition of the "cursus" leading to the
qualification as Expert Comptable (EC). The performance of the French
consulting firm was satisfactory. The Borrower submiitted a detailed PCR,
which, makes, among others, the following statements: 'It is regrettable
that the credit did not provide any funds for the dissemination of the
"Plan Compteble" '. It does mention the many efforts (not financed by the
credit) by INSCAE, RINDRA and other accounting firms to disseminate the
law. It was because of those efforts that the Bank did not consider this to
be a priority.
5.03 Component 3 (CFC-INSCAE): the cost of operating the CFC during the
first three years (S 3.3 rnillion; exceeded the original estimates of the
CFC for six years ($ 1.6 million). It had been planned that the newly
appointed Director General of the CFC would hire individual accounting
teachers without the help of an overseas coordinating institution. This
proved to be impossible. To assure the timely start of the project, it
became necessary to engage a Canadian consulting firm to recruit the CFC's
director and the foreign teaching staff. The firm also assisted in
arranging overseas training for future Malagasy teaching staff. The
initial "Canadian" orientation of CFC's program was criticized by some
local accountants. It occasionally caused some friction between French
oriented and Anglo-Saxon (Quebecois) trained teachers. These problems
practically disappeared with the requirements of the new accounting
legislation were incorporated in the CFCs curriculum.  None of the schools
first graduates experienced any serious difficulties because of this so
called "Canadian' orientation. At the beginning, the consulting firm's
performance was very good, but its refus-l to cooperate with potential
future co-financiers and a newly appointed, Bank approved, French Dean of
Studies, necessitated the termination of all ties with that firm.
5.04 Component C (RINDRA): RINDRA's foreign Director General, appointed
under the Credit, proved ineffective and controversial. He was replaced by
a Malagasy director who turned out to be dynamic and efficient.
Performance of the original consulting firm was satisfactory, while that of
the second firm was generally appraised aa excellent. The expectation that
RINDRA would be able to reimburse the loan advanced by the government
turned out to be unrealistic.  To expect RINDRA to acquire its needed
additional skills at world market prices and then to sell them at similar
prices on a market that, at least initially has little appreciation for
such services, proved to be too optimistic. Although RINDRA is able to
generate positive operating cash flows, paying interest and reimbursing
this debt far exceeds its present and future capabilities. The decision to
fina'.:e RINDRA's technical assistance through a loan was allegedly based on
a f recast of RINDRA's earnings potential made around 1980. This forecast
misjudged the market for auditing and consulting services in a developing
country. In the early phases of development such a market is minimal. As
it gradually develops it commands prices that are in tune with price level
of its undeveloped environment, hence far below the world market level.
5.05 The delay of component A could have been reduced somewhat had it been
made clearer from the start that a firm %ith international experience was
needed.  As _.t was, the three firms, essentially making up the Malagasy
accounting profession, who wanted the contract for themselves, used their
significant political influence to get on the short list and to influence



5
the choice of firms. This led to protracted delays. It would have been
difficult to foresee these problems during project preparation.
5.06 The cost overrun for component B could have been reduced (but not
avoided) if the absence of anyone to manage the initial establishment of
CFC, and the problems of availability and cost of accounting teachers had
beer correctly assessed. Ideally, a contract with a university should have
been sought for the organization and management of the school. The
assumptLon that RINDRA would be sufficiently profitable to repay the loan
should have never been made.
5.07 The appraisal report d'd not identify the risk of delaying the
project's completion by the delay of component A. The other risks, nameyL
the timely appointments of foreign directors for the CFC and RINDRA,
mentioned in the appraisal report were of no consequence.
5.08 Under component D only two sub-projects were successfully completed.
Originally, this component also provided for a feasibility study for the
establ.shment of a public consulting firm. The Borrower's Project
completion report states (p. 40) that the conditions for this assistance
were not stated clearly and never adequately publicized. This allegedly
explains the delay in submitting projects for approval. Only two projects
were submitted. Both were approved. The first submiss!.on was on November
17, 1983.
6.   Project results
6.01 Component A: A modern accountancy law adapted to Madagascar's needs
was passed in 1987 (Plan comptable). Still to be enacted are related
changes in the Commercial Law Code, important provisions regulating access
to the profession, and the "cursus" leading to the qualification" expert
comptable".
6.02 The project's most successful component was the establishment and
staffing of the CFC, latter renamed INSCAE. The school started operations
in 1983 and currently graduates approximately 50 to 60 students from its
three-year accountancy program and another 20 from its four-year
professional accountancy program. Its fully tuition-financed evening
school has an enrollment of approximately 400 per year. Graduates have no
difficulty in finding appropriate employment. The project also provided
that RINDRA prepare a study estimating Madagascar's demand for accountants.
The study, started in 1983 but never completed, was to serve as a guideline
for the future expansion of INSCAE's accounting programs. It will now be
carried out by INSCAE.
6.03 component C: The technical assistance to RINDRA, despite some initial
problems with an expatriate director, must be judged successful. RINDRA is
now fully under Malagasy management. The auditing division presently has a
staff of thirty-five qualified accountants who are organized along the
lines of modern accounting firms with solid programs of internal training
and quality control. RINDRA has as its clients some of Madagascar s
biggest companies and is well known for the quality of its audit work.



6
6.04 The consulting division of RINDRA now employs 20 professionals,
enjoys a good reputation and is now apparently operating at a profit before
debt service. Because of its debt to the government, RINDRA will be
financially viable only if this debt is drastically reduced or annulled.
6.05 The new accountancy law requires that accounting firms be fully
independent. This precludes government ownership and control of an
accounting firm. If RINDRA is to continue to function as an auditing firm,
it must be reorganized as a private firm. Present plans call for the
privatization of RINDRA and the reduction or annulment of its debt; the
government will retain cnly a small minority interest in RINDRA's equity.
6.06 Component D (Technical Assistance to Malagasy Management Consulting
firms): the two main private accounting and consulting firms, Fivoarana
and Ramaholimihaso, received some effective technical assistance from
French accounting and consulting firms that improved the quality of their
services in the area of computerized systems.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.01 A modern accounting legislation is in place, although some details
concerning the regulation of the accounting profession are yet to be
enacted. Both INSCAE and RINDRA have been instrumental in disseminating
the new law through courses and seminars. The legislation has been
carefully analyzed and modified to adequately meet the requirements of the
Malagasy economy. It became effective on January 1st, 1989.
7.02 The accountancy training project should be viewed as a success.
INSCAE turns out wwll-trained accounting graduates. All find employment at
salaries significantly higher than those of university graduates. Foreign
trained Malagasy teachers constitute about 80% of its teaching staff, and
in the foreseeable future the program will no longer depend on expatriate
teachers. Currently most of INSCAE operating costs are still financed by
the Bank (Credit 1661-MAG). It is planned that the Government of
Madagascar will finance an annually increasing share of these operating
expenses. INSCAE is able to generate revenues from both the public and the
private sector through its continuing education seminars and consulting.
This revenue plus the tuition paid by students will never amount to more
than 30% percentage of its annual budget. A study in 1987 required under
the Credit agreement showed that many students would have difficulty in
paying more than they do and recommended against increasing tuition fees
for full-time students.
7.03 RINDRA's future success as an auditing and consulting firm depends
only on its successful privatization and the reorganization of its
financial structure. There are indications that both problems will be
resolved in the foreseeable future.
8.   Bank Performance
8.01 Bank Performances The Bank's Performance was satisfactory. It
contributed to the project's success by strongly insisting that deadlines
be observed and covenants respected (not always successfully).
Overestimating RINDRA's financial viability and underestimating the cost of



7
initially staffing the CFC were the only important planning errors.
Supervision missions of the project were carried out about twice a year by
EAPED staff, from 1985 on with the assistance of an accounting specialist
consultant. Supervision of the project was adequate.
8.02 There were three crises that had to be faced by the Bank: (1) when it
turned out that the initial staffing of the CFC would require the services
of a consulting firm, Bank staff decided quickly and correctly that the
resulting higher cost outweighed the alternative of delaying the project;
(2) when RINDRA's ineffective Director General was replaced by a Malagasy
national, the Bank re'uctantly agreed to what turned out to be a sound
decision; and (3) when the initially excellent work of the CFC's first
con'ulting firm deteriorated to the point where the continued success of
the project was threatened, the government was correctly permttted to cut
all ties with that firm.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01 The Government consistently showed a strong commitment to the
project. It fully supported the concept of creating the CFC as a "grande
4cole", separate from the university; it provided adequate premises for the
school and gave full support to the politically difficult enactment of the
accounting legislation. It seems willing to restructure RINDRA as a
private firm to assure its continued functioning as an effective accounting
and consulting firm.
10.   Pro4ect Relationships
10.01 Government-Bank relationships were satisfactory throughout the
project. Through the initial engagement of a Canadian consulting firm, it
was possible to interest Canada's foreign aid (ACDI) program in the
project. ACDI is now making a significant contribution to INSCAE's
programs. The Bank was also successful in enlisting FAC assistance for
financing of some highly qualified French teichers for INSCAE.
11. Conclusions, Recommendations and Lessons Learned
11.01  The Borrower's report makes the following recommendations:
(a)  Early creation of the "Conseil Supdrieur en Comptabilit4" to
deal with some remaining legal problems, and new issues in accounting
and auditing.
(b) The early enact.,ient of the rules concerning the accounting
profession.
(4) Implementation of #2 will enable INSCAE to fulfill its original
mission of training future "experts comptables".
(d) The government should prepare a strategy to modify INSCAE's
objectives and to assure its financial viability.
(e) The financial reorganization of RINDRA by converting its de'-it to
equity capital and changing its legal status into a partnership.
(f) Another technical assistance contract to strengthen the
consulting division of RINDRA.



11.02Bank's comments on above recommendations:
- Recommendations " a" and " b" are reportedly in the process of
being implemented.
- Regarding recommendation " c", INSCAE is fully qualified and has
the capacity to teach any preparatory "cursus" for the "expertise
comptable" once such "cursus" is defined.
- As to recommendations "d" and "e", INSCAE is presently preparirng a
long range strategy which will be discussed and analyzed with the
government, the Bank and the co-financters. The reorganization of
RINDRA and the change of its legal status are currently being
negotiated by RINDRA staff and the government. Final and successful
conclusion of these negotLations is expected by mid-1990.
- With regard to "f", RINDRA is presently the beneficiary of an ACDI
financed technical assIstance program for its management consulting
division.
11.03The political difficulties of introducing an accountancy law without
the full cooperation of the existing accounting profession had not been
foreseen. The profession, although very small, had significant political
influence. The start up costs of the CFC far exceeded the original
estimates because the problems of procuring needed technical assistance had
been underestimated. The on lending arrangements for RINDRA proved too
costly; it was impossible for the firm to absorb the full costs of foreign
technical assistance and remain competitive in local markets.
11.04Both the Borrower and the Bank view the project as a success with
some caveats. The major unresolved problem was that while the accountancy
code was changed commercial law has not been changed to conform to the new
code. This issue has been taken up under Credit-1661 the follow on Credit
to 1155. There are no significant differences in the findings and
conclusions of the Bank and those reported by the borrower.



9
ANNEX
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR,
Antananarivo, 7th September, 1990
Ministry of Finance and Budget
GOVERNMENT COMMENTS ON BANK REPORT
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
The Resident Representative,
The World Bank
RE: Government of R.D.M.'s commentaries about the report of Post evaluation
of credit 1155-MAG.
Dear Sir,
Please find hereafter the Government of R.D.M.'s commentaries about
the report of Post evaluation of credit 1155-MAG:
a)   General view
In general, the report is an accurate reflection of
the project's history.
b)   Political problems encountered in the introduction of
the new 1987 Malagasy accounting plan
Three years passed between the time when the French
Consulting Firm started its activities and the
publication day of the new accounting plan. We
believe that the difficulties met during .his period
of time were not due political reasons, but rather,
the mair. reason for the publication delay of the new
accounting plan were technical problems.
The draft accounting plan prepared by the Consultant
firm was the subject of two seminars organized by the
firm at the Hilton Hotel, during which every detail of
540-page draft report was analyzed. The seminar
participants included accounting professionals,
accounting teachers in addition to key representatives
of the Public and private sectors concerned with
accounting issues. Other technical meetings followed
those seminars before the document was finalized.
For your information, the 1957 French plan revision
officially started in 1971 and a waiting period of
more than 11 years was necessary before the new French
accounting plan was definitely established.



10
c)   Concern of the Accounting Profession Regarding its
Status
The accounting profession did not have any reason to
fear that its status would be Jeopardized by the new
dispositions which concerned strictly technical
matters. Indeed, such a change in the status
accounting profession only happen in the context of a
new law governing the profession which is currently
governed by regulation no.62.104.
d)   Political problems in the new Accountinz Plan
promulgation
The new Accounting Plan promulgation decree, was
considered in the Council of Ministers. The discussion
was fairly straightforward as all Ministers gave their
agreement.
e)   RINDRA File
The miscellaneous points raised as well as the
recommendations stated in the report are presently
being considered in the context of a global settlement
of the RINDRA issue.
Yours sincerely,
Leon RAJAOBELINA
Minister



t11     ~      '-"-b '07  SEP  IM
MINISYtrk    090  PINANCES
JT aU SUDGEKT
Li MANINY                               Monsieur LE REPRESENTANT RESIDENT DE
LA BANQUE IlONDIALE
- ANTANANRIVO -
N-       WBC /SG/DPC
0 B J t   : Comntairts du  ouvernhmnt de la R.O.M. sur la rapport
de Post &valuation du cr6it 1155-MM.
Monsieur Lt Reprisentant.
Ja1  1 mhonmur da vous faire  connaitre  quo le rapport
du post Ivaluation du cridit 1155-NM applle do la part du Gouvernem_nt
de la R.D.M. Its comentaires ci-apris
*) Vue globale.
Dans  l'ansOle  l  rapport reflte  correctawnt  la
vie du proJet.
b) Problus golitiq   rencontrhes dans 1'introductIon
du nouveau pian comptab a m lpace 1557.
Entre  Is ammut Io   le consultant frgacis Audit et
systhms a commnei ses travoux et Io Jour de la
parution du nouveau plan coptable 11 seat GcoulQ
environ 3 ans.
Nous  esti* ns  quo  les  difflcultAs  rencontries  au
cours do cette pr1ode n'avalent *bsolumentu sa un carac-
Le principal facteur qul a reterd# la purtlion du
nouveau plan ccsptable est essentiellmnt dtordre
tochnique.
En  effet,  le  projet de plan  co qtabe  pipar# par
la cabinet framaips Audit et syst   s a felt I obJet
do doux shinaires animis per leurs autaurs I PlHotel
Hilton et *u cours desquels ont At& examins cheque
page d'un volum do 540 pages.
--.I ~     ~       -4o-,
Re~v~ lZ49+.
~~~~~~~~d



12           t1sif 3
Les participants l ces sb"inaires ftaient des
prefessionnels de I& ceaptabilit#, des prefesseurs de l'Ense1-
gnement Supiriour en gestien. des personnal1tds du secteur
public concern6es per la co.ptabilitf (Pr6sident de la Chambre
des  Coptes,  Directeur  G6neral  de  l'inspection  Gn#ra1e
de l'Etat etc....) ainsi quo des op6ratours 6cononiques.
Ces siminaires ont 6t0 suivis d'autres rOunions
techniques avant de parmnir au docu ent final.
A titre dlinforsation. on notere que la rivision
du plan frangals de 1957 a comnenc6 officieTlemnt en 1971
et 11 a fallu une piriode de gestation de plus de 11 ans
avant que le nouveau plan comptable franqais alt pris sa
forum dffinitive.
c) Inquiftude de la profession comptabe qjuant I son statut.
La profession comptable n'avait aucune ruison
de  votr  son  statut mnac6  p.r les  nouvel;s  Gispositlons
qu1 sont d'ordre puruumnt technique.
Un changsmut Iventuel du statut de la profession
comptable ne peut en effet intervenir que dans le cadre
d'une nouvelle 101 organisait la profession coWtable laquelle
mSt rZile actuell_emnt par l'ordonnace 62.104
d) Difficult# politi quo dans_la promulgation du nouveau Plam
(mtab1 0.
La pramlgatlon de nouveau plan comptable qui
sest faite par d6cret pris en 'Conseil des Ministres i t
tris facile pu1sque tous les Minist6res ont accordi lour
visa lors de la camunication tournante y afffirente.
0) Dossier RINDRA
tis divers points soulev6s dans le rapport ainsi
quo los recoamandtions qul y sont foruulles sont actuell emnt
exainmis dans le cadre d'un rgli_nt global de la situation
de RINDRA.
VeWuilez          nsiour Le Reprisentant, l'assurance
de ma haute consid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



13
PART II
GOVERNMENT'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT 5/
1. SUMMARY AND CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVE OF STUDY
CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVE OF MISSION
1.01 In accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05.b of Development
Credit Agreement 1155-MAG, the Government of Madagascar is to provide the
World Bank, by six months following the closing of the credit or at any
later date agreed with the World Bank, with a complete and detailed report
addressing the following topics:
-     execution of and initial operations under the Project;
-     costs of the Project and advantages deriving or expected to be
derived therefrom;
-     execution of obligations incumbent on the Government of
Madagascar and the World Bank, respectively;
-     achievement of the objectives of the credit.
1.02 The purpose of our mission is to draft the completion report for the
Accountancy and Auditing Organization and Training Project financed by
Credit 1155-MAG on behalf of the Government of Madagascar.
METHODOLOGY
1.03  The mission was carried out in the three following stages:
-     Survey of documentation (appraisal report, contracts, various
correspondence, etc.);
3     Analysis of the documentation;
-     Discussions with various leaders who participated in project
development, execution and monitoring.
STRUCTURE OF REPORT
1.04  This report addresses in turn:
-     summary and background;
-     the description of the project;
-     conduct of the project;
-     results and problems;
-     conclusions and recommendations
HISTORICAL OVERVIEW
1.05 The chronological starting point for this project was the idea of
establishing a National Auditing Corporation in June 1978. Taking into
account the suggestions of tht accounting profession and bearing in mind
5/ The borrower's report was prepared in French by Malogasy Consultants, Fiovarans and
RINDRA, on behalf of the Government who submitted it to the Bonk. It was translated by the
Bank. The original French version is available from Africs Files. Copies of tho French
version are being supplied to the Operations Evaluation Department. This report was prepared
for the Government and the World Bank Is not rosponsible for the opinions expressed ;n the
report.



14
that the interventions of the National Auditing CorporatLon would be
effective only if enterprises have the capacity and the legal obligation to
submit their financial statements in a form which can be audited, in January
1990 the World Bank defined a "national accountancy project" which not only
included auditing, but also covered the organization of the profession, the
definition of a national accounting framework, the training of accountants,
and enhancement of the intervention capacity of private accountancy firms.
1.05  The accountancy and auditing organization and training project, a
project to assist the accounting profession, thus included the following
four components:
-     Component A:  Study of accounting standards and legislation
-     Component B:  Creation and operation of an Accountancy Training
Center
-     Component C:  Strengthening of the activities of RINDRA
Socialist Enterprise
-     Component D:  Support of private management consulting firms.
OVERVIEW OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENT
1.07 The project appraised by the World Bank in June 1980 was covered by
Credit Agreement 1155-MAG signed June 11, 1981. In accordance with the
terms of the agreement, the World Bank extended a credit of SDR 9,4CO,000 to
the Malagasy Government. The breakdown of this amount by category of credit
in accordance with the credit agreement and as finally allocated following
adjustments is indicated in the following table:
Category of Credit     According to Subsidiary  Upward    Downward    After
Credit     Credit     Adjustment  Adjustment  Adjustment
Agreement   Agreement
Consultants for        260,000                            50,000      200,00
legislation
Consultants for CFC    1,630,000              1,810,000               3,440,000
Consultants for RINDRA    2,200,000   3,600,000   1,160,000           4,160,0MO
Consultants for private   820,000                         426,000     396,000
fIrms
Local CFC personnel    680,600                            395,0ao     286,000
CFC procurement        900,0i0                                        900,000
Unallocated            2,940,000   2,140,060              2,090,000   s6,o00
TOTAL              9,400,606              2,980,000   2,986,006   9,400,000
PURPOSE OF THE COMPLETION REPORT
1.08 In accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05(b) of Development
Credit Agreement 1155-MAG, the Malagasy Government is to provide the World
Bank, not later than six months following the closing date of the Credit or
any later date agreed with the World Bank, with a complete and detailed
report on:
-     project execution and initial operational experiences;



15
project costs and the gains derived from it or expected to be
derived from It;
-     performance by the Malagasy Government and the World Bank of the
obligations incumbent on each of them, respectively;
-     accomplishment of the objectives of the credit.
Our mission iL to draw up the completion report for the Accountancy and
Financial Auditing Organization and Training Project under Credit 1155-MAG
on behalf of the Malagasy Government.
2.    GENERAL INTRODUCTION
2.01 Preparation of the project effectively waS spread over a three-year
period from June 1978 to June 1981. The first 20 months were devoted to the
pre-identification phase. The project, exclusively for technical assistance
of a new kind for the World Bank, was not within the purview of any of its
customary divisions, which produced a good deal of hesitancy.
2.02 The date on which the credit took effect, scheduled to be October 12,
1981, subsequently was postponed until May 6, 1982. The process of hiring
of the Directors-General of CFC (Accountancy Training Center] and RINDRA,
who were intended to be expatriates and whose appointment constituted one of
the Bank's conditions for the entry into force of the credit, took nearly a
year. The closing date for the credit, initially scheduled for March 30,
1989, was thus moved back to June 30, 1989.
CONDUCT OF THE PROJECT
Component A: Accounting Standards and Legislation
2.03 The component devoted to "accounting standards and legislation" had
the following aims:
examination of the regulations applicable to the various types
of enterprises as regards accounting and of the professional
standards to which accountants and auditors must adhere.
-     drafting and implementation of appropriate regulations,
including draft laws which would require, inter alia, that
Malagasy enterprises establish accounts which are audited in
accordance with specific standards and with a national plan of
accounts.
2.04 This component, considered to be a priority, was the one in which the
greatest delay was experienced. The Bank had scheduled the introduction of
new legal provisions on accounting legislation for July 1982, while the
consulting firm which was to assist the Government in this work was not
formally announced until January 29, 1985, i.e., two and a half years later.
This delay is basically attributable to:
-     rather long delays in:
+     preparation of the short list of consultancies;
+     final drafting of the terms of reference;
+     international call for bids;
+     fine-tuning of the contract between the Government and the
consultancy;



16
-     problems of relationships between the Order, the
Government and the Banks in effect, the Order argued for
an expansion of the project as well as for its intensive
involvement in project execution. For this reason, the
President of the Order participated in the negotiations in
April 1981.
2.05 These factors were compounded by the fact that the foreign experts
selected for the study were unfamiliar with prevailing conditions in
Madagascar, which led to lengthy discussions and numerous revisions during
the course of conducting the study, and even required members of the firm
Malagasy accounting profession (order, INSCAE, RINDRA) to participate
actively and decisively in completing the study for Component A: critical
analysis, formulation of recommendations, final drafting of the regulatory
provisions and the annotated guide.
2.06 The 1987 code of accounts (PCG 87) constitutes the most palpable
achievement of the project, as company law has yet to be affected. The
project, however, provided for no financing for dissemination of the new
code of accounts, and the request for World Bank financing made first by the
Consultants and later by the Malagasy Government, has yet to be acted upon.
Initial dissemination work has been begun anyway by local accounting
consultancies and the INSCAE; several enterprises have already submitted
their latest financial statements (1988) in accordance with the new code of
accounts, whose effective date has been postponed until January 1, 1990. As
regards the accounting profession, specific proposals have been submitted to
the authorities to bolster the Ordre des Experts Comptables et Comptables
Agr44s [Order of Expert Accountants and Authorized Accountants] under the
transitional provisions and to create structures that will be called upon to
define the training course to be routinely offered for purposes of obtaining
the National Diploma of Expertise in Accounting.
2.07 Our principal recommendations relate mainly to the following points:
-     Creation as soon as possible of the Supreme Accountancy Council
for resolving existing problems (sectoral codes of accounts,
practical modalities for implementing certain accounting
principles, etc.);
-     Publication of the legal and regulatory provisions governing the
accounting profession: training using the course for expert
accountants and organization of access to the profession under
the transitional provisions;
-     Evaluation of the training needs relating to the 1987 general
code of accounts and its dissemination, so as to define the
steps to be taken.
Component B: Creation and operation of an Accountancy Training Center
2.08 This component concerns:
-     creation of the Accountancy Training Center (CFC) in
Antananarivo;
-     hiring of the staff needed by the Center;
-     furnishing of training manuals and other educational materials,
supplies, services, and equipment necessary for its operation.



17
2.09 The operation of the Accountancy Training Center (CFC) began in
February 1983, itself some 10 months behind schedule, owing in particular to
the delay in hiring the Director-General and to the considerable work
involved in rehabilitating the three stories made available to the Center in
the "House of Products." Moreover, because of an inadequate project
appraisal, the credit planned to cover 6 years was exhausted in 3 years,
making necessary:
-     on the one hand, an adjustment in the initial credit by drawing
against the non-earmarked funds and against the funds intended
for Component D; and
-     on the other hand, the preparation of a second project in the
amount of $13.1 million to continue the teaching of accounting,
but under a new name: The National Institute for Accounting
Sciences and Business Management (INSCAE), established in
September 1986 and now financed by the new Credit 1661-MAG.
2.10 This being so, CFC endeavored to maintain the category of "grande
4cole" and provide complete or partial training to nearly 300 high quality
accountants (number not including that of students in evening courses)
before it was transformed into the INSCAE, which thus benefitted from its
rolling start.
2.11  However, this pertaxns  to Credit 1155-MAG, and does not cover the
study on the current INSCAE (functioning and effectiveness of the Executive
Board, degree of effectiveness of the Pedagogical Council, etc.), which is
part of Credit 1661-MAG. Such a study is, moreover, envisaged by the
management of the INSCAE.
2.12 Inter alia, it is necessary to study the ultimate coverage of
CFC-INSCAE costs under the General State Budget. In addition, the
management of the INSCAE currently wish to know:
the status of the INSCAE as regards the other institutions for
training accountants both in Madagascar and abroad;
whether the structure and organization of the INSCAE are adapted
to its activities;
-     whether its activities relate to the needs of the market both in
qualitative and quantitative terms.
2.13 Accordingly, a study covering the three following components is
envisaged:
-     pedagogical audit;
-     management audit; and
-     market study.
Component Cs Activities of RINDRA Socialist Enterprise
2.14 The reinforcement of RINDRA's activities involves training of its
supervisors and the supervision of its work by an outside consultancy.
After two or three years of indirection initially, RINDRA now has a solie
mastery of the audit function (a staff of 35 in the division), initial



18
experience in management counselling (a staff of 14 in the division), a
sound internal organization, and a reputation for professionalism.
2.15 However, the long period of external technical assistance has proven
extremely costly, making RINDRA's financial position unsustainable, all the
more so as the terms for on-lending the credit ultimately proved to be too
harsh. Indeed, given the burden of its debt to the Treasury (SDR 4.15 mil-
lion over 10 years at 12 percent), the company is virtually at the point of
ceasing payments. During the course of our mission, It was not possible to
produce any document testifying to the anticipated capabilities of RINDRA to
support financing on this large a scale. In addition, it bears noting that
RINDRA's status as a socialist enterprise is not such as to ensure the
stability of its senior staff.
2.16 As regards the study on needs for accountants in Madagascar provided
for under the Credit Agreement, this was to be dealt with by the former
expatriate Director-General of RINDRA, but ialtimately was not completed. In
this connection, however, the INSCAE, at the request of its Board of
Directors, intends to conduct a market study in order to determine both
quantitative and qualit"cive accounting requirements with a view to
adjusting class sizes provide teacher training at the INSCAE.
2.17 It would be advisable to revise the status of RINDRA so as to make it
legally independent and to enable its higher ranking staff to have access to
partnership. Moreover, a financial restructuring of RINDRA is mandatory so
as to enable it to develop sufficient positive rolling capital and a
sufficient gross self-financing margin.
Comsonent Ds Support for Private Management Consultancies
2.18 This component enables the firms concerned to use the credit to
finance support in financial and accounting organization from an outside
consultancy firm.
2.19 As regards the component on enhancing the capacity of the private
consultancies, 52 percent of the small amount of credit provided for had to
be allocated to other needs, which made it possible to carry out on y two
external assistance operations. This external assistance, however, did
strengthen the capabilities of two private firms as regards management
consulting services and bank auditing.
2.20 It must be acknowledged that project 1155-MAG is a success, this
because the project made it possible for:
-     the country to have a more modern code of accounts that is
adapted to its needs;
-     the accounting profession to clarify the problems relatlng to
accounting regulations, ongoing training of accountants and the
organization of access to the profession, under the transitional
regulations;
-     CFC to provide partial or complete training to almost 300
acco ntants (excluding evening courses) before its activities
were ta .an over by the INSCAE;
-     RINDRA to become a highly capable accountancy firm; and



19
-     two private firms to take advantage of external assistance to
strengthen their capacities in management consulting.
2.21 However, the project has the two following major weaknesses, which are
strictly financial in nature:
_     the initial loan allccation for a six-year period to CFC was
exhausted in only three years; and
-     the financial structure of RINDRA is unsustainable owing to the
terms for on-lending.
BASIC DATA ON THE PROJECT
PROJECT: Project for Accountancy and Auditing Organization and Training in
Madagascar (1155-MAG)
Component A
Examination of the regulations applied to the various types of
enterprises as regards accountancy and of the professional standards to
which accountants and auditors must aspire; development and implementation
of appropriate regulations, including draft laws which would require inter
alia that the Malagasy enterprises draw up accounts which would be audited
in accordance with specific standards and would establish a national
accounting code.
Component B
Creation of an accountancy training center in Antananarivo; hirirn  of
the necessary staff for said center; and provision of the training manuals
and other educational tools, supplies, services and equipment necessary for
its operation.
Component C
Enhancement of the activities of RINDRA.
Component D
Strengthening of the capacity of domestic management consultancy
firms.
Borrower
Government of Madagascar.
Executing Agencies
As originally planned:
-     Ministry of Economy and Commerce, as regards the consultancy
services for purposes of helping develop accounting mechanisms
and methods and preparing legislative measures.



20
Ministry of Higher Education as regards the establishment of an
accountancy training center.
RINDRA as regards technical assistance in auditing.
Since February 28, 1984, the coordination of the entire project has
been under the direct responsibility of the Ministry at the Presidency
Responsible for Finance and the Economy.
Execution of the Credit (Amounts in SDRs)
PROJECTED         ACTUAL
Loan request to the IDA (initially                              6/24/78
for strengthening the effectiveness                               and
of RINDRA socialist enterprise                                  6/18/79
Preparation, identificat4.on                                    Aug-Sep 79
Appraisal                                                       June 1980
Approval                                                        C/2/81
Signature                                                       6/11/81
Effective date                               /l12/81            5/6/82
First review                               J/12/82
Second review                              4/42/82
Concluding date                .. 31/88                         5/6/82
First review                              S.:;.0/a8
Second review                              1.! 31/88
Terms of credit                                                 9,400,000
Amount                                                        0.75 percent of
Service charge                                                amount of
credit drawn
and not yet
repaid
Repayment perLod                                                50 years
Grace period                                                    10 years
Subsidiary loan agreement between the
Treasury and RINDRA
Date of signature                                             1/25/82
Amount                                     3,000,000          3,000,000
Service charge                             12% per annumn    12% per annum
Repayment period                           10 years           10 years
Grace period                               3 years            3 years



21
Codicil to the subsidiary loan
agreement between the Public Treasury
and RENDRA
Date of signature                                              7/18/86
Additional amount                                              1,150,000
Credit increased to:                                           4,150,000
Service charge                                                 12% per annum
Repayment period                                               6 years
Grace period                                                   2 years
Penalty interest (on all amounts                               3.5% per annum
due and paid at a date after
the due date)
Financial status of credit as at
March 31, 1989
Amount                                      9,400,000          9,400,000
Amount released                                                9,359,809
Balance                                                           40,190.83



22
3.    HISTORY OF PROJECT
ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
3.01 In 1978, the Mlnistry of Economy and Commerce designed an enterprise
management assistance project in cooperation with two major international
firms. There were three components to this project:
-     creation of a National Auditing Corporation;
-     creation of a Management Consulting Company;
-     creation of a National Center for Management Training.
3.02 The Commission of the European Communities had previously shown great
intereHt in the establishment of the National Center for Management
Traininlg, an'd the Government of Madagaecar sought the cooperation of the
World Bank for support of the first two project components. The request
went unanswered.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR STRENGTHENING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
RINDRA
3.03 After the establishment of RINDRA socialist enterprise on April 7,
1979, efforts were concentrated within this auditing firm. In June 1979, a
credit of $2,300,000 was requested from the World Bank to finance technical
assistance from the consulting firm for purposes of enhancing RINDRA's
effectiveness, it being intended to provide retroactive coverage of fees,
which were regarded as too high. This second request was not approved by
the World Bank, which did, however, consider the issue at length before
reaching its final decision.
NATIONAL ACCOUNTANCY PROJECT
3.04 Taking into account the suggestions of the profession and the fact
that RINDRA's activities would be effective only if the enterprises were
both able and legally required to provide their financial statements in an
auditable form, in January 1980 the Bank defined a "national accountancy
project" including, to be sure, auditing, but also the organization of the
profession, the definition of a national accounting framework, the training
of accountants, and the enhancement ef the intervention capacity uf private
firms. This intearated project was appraised by the Bank in June 1980 and
was covered by Credit Agreement 1155-MAG signed on June 11, 1981.
3.05 A modest project entaillng assistance to a National Auditing
Corporation thus led three years later to a project for assistance to the
entire profession at a total cost of $14.2 million. Preparation of the
project was somewhat time consuming. This project, focused solely on
technical assistance, was of a new type for the World Bank, and did not fall
within the purview of any of its divisions. This resulted in a good dea.. of
hesitation. The World Bank finally took advantage of a number of missions
to Madagascar by an expert from the Energy and Water Division and entrusted
him with the project appraisal.
PRINCIPAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PROJECT
3.06 The objectives of the project were:



23
-     to restructure Madagascar's economic and financial information
system so as to adapt it to the country's current needs;
-     to improve the skill level of accountants and auditors so as to
enhance effectiveness in enterprise management, planning and
financial control.
3.07        Establishment of the integrated project included the following
components:
-     Component A:  Study of Legislatlon and Accounting Regulations
:This component is devoted to developing regulations which
require enterprises to maintain their accounts, and have them
audited, in accordance with specific regulations set forth in a
national accounting code. Within this framework, the Malagasy
Government will have the assistance of an outside consultancy
for a period of 20 man/months.
-     Component B:  Creation and Operation of an Accountancy Training
Center: In addition to actually establishing such a Center, this
component also provides for hiring its staff, providing training
manuals and other materials necessary for its operation.
Completion of this component will require 279 man/months of
expert time.
-     Component C:  Enhancement of the Activities of RINDRA Socialist
Enterprise: The enhancement of RINDRA's activities will be the
outgrowth of staff training and oversight of its activities by
an outside consultant, which will entail 156/man/months of work
over a period of 2 1/2 years.
-     Component D:  Support for Private Management Consulting Firms:
Interested firms will draw against the credit to obtain the
support of an outside firm as regards consulting on accountancy
and financial organization. Total involvement of 65
expert/months was provided for this component.
COSTS
3.08         The cost of the project, estimated by the Bank at $14.2 million,
may be broken down by component as follows:
COMPONENT                       In domestic     In foreign
currency        exchange         Total
Study of accounting legislation A   0.1         0.3              0.4
standardization
Creation and operation of an    2.3             2.2              4.6
accountancy training center
Strengthening the activities of    0.3          2.8              3.1
RINDRA socialist enterprise
Support to private management   0.2             1.0              1.2
consulting firms
Base costs                   2.9              f.3             9.2



24
Provisions for:
Unforeseen supplies and     0.3              0.6              0.9
equipment                        1.9              2.2              4.1
Prico fluctuations
TOTAL                     5.1              9.1               14.2
3.09  The Accounting Training Center and RINDRA socialist enterprise are the
two most costly components, absorbing 49 percent and 34 percent of the base
costs, respectively. Provisions are also quite sizable, constituting 35
percent of total project cost. It also bears noting that the foreign
exchange costs of the project are relative sizable (64 percent of the
total).
FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
3.10 The financing arrangements for the project were established as follows
(in millions of dollars):
COMPONENT                                         Domestic    Foreign
Currency    Exchange    Total
Study of accounting legislation and standardization    0.1    0.8          0.4
Creation and operation of an accountancy training  2.3         2.2         4.5
center
Strengthening the activities of RINDRA socialist  0.8          2.8         3.1
enterprise
Support for private management consulting firms   0.2          1.0         1.2
Basic costs                                    2.9         8.3         9.2
Allo 1nces for:
Unforeseon equipment                         0.3         0.6          0.9
Price changes                                1.9         2.2          4.1
TOTAL                                      6.1         9.1          14.2
The most expensive components are the Accountancy Training Center and
RINDRA Socialist Enterprise, accounting for 49 percent and 34 percent of
base costs, respectively; provisions were also sizable, constituting 35
percent of the total project cost. It bears noting, moreover, that the
foreign currency share of the costs was relatively high (64 percent).
2.4. FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
The financing arrangements for the project are as follows (in millions
of dollars):
FrNANCING SOURCE                                  Domestic    Foreign
Currency    Exchange    Total
IDA Credit                                        2.4         9.1          11.6
Central Government Budget                         1.6          --          1.6
Self-financing by RINDRA and private firms
1.1         --          1.1
TOTAL                                         5.1         9.1          14.2



25
3.11 The Bank thus provided financing for 81 percent of the total project
cost. Due to antlcipated contributLons from RINDRA and from private firms,
the Central Government's participation is relatively small.
3.12 In a departure from its customary practices, the Bank agreed to
finance costs in local currency representing the equivalent of $2.4 million,
corresponding to 95 percent of the costs payable ln local currency of tho
consultants and of the local purchases of CFC as well as 60 percent CFC's
personnel costs.
3.13 The IDA credit torms were established in accordance with the
Convontion of June 11, 1981 as follows
Amount            SDR 9,400,000
Service charge    0.75 percent of the amount of the credit drawn and
not yet repaid
Repayment period  50 years
Grace period       10 years.
3.14  The amount of the credLt may be broken down as follows (amounts in
SDRs)
Consultants for legislation                   250,000
Consultants for CFC                         1,630,000
Consultants for RINDRA                      2,200,000
Consultants for prlvate firms                 820,000
Local personnel--CYC                          660,000
CFC purchases                                 900,000
Unallocated                                 2,940,000
TOTAL                    9,400,000
3.15 In accordance with Article 3 of the credlt agreement, the borrower
will on-lend to RINDRA the equivalent of SDR 3 million within the framework
of a subsidiary loan agreement. This agreement, signed between the Public
Treasury and RINDRA on January 25, 1982, sets the loan terms as follows:
Service charge                 12 percent per annum
Repayment perlod                10 years
Grace perlod                    3 years
The terms of the subsidiary loan agreement are thus "harsher" than the terms
of the maln loant RINDRA wlll not, however, be responsLble for coverlng
exchange rliks.
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
3.16 The dLibursement schedule for the IDA credlt established in global
terms by the World Bank are lndlcated in the followLng table (Ln milllons of
dollars):
1982     198     1964     19s      1986     1967     1966
Per fIscal yer 1. 2    2.0      2.8       2.2      2.0      1.5      6.5
Cumulative    1.2      8.2      5.6       7.7      9.7      11.2      11.5
Use of the credit would opan a period of seven years.



26
3.17 Given the increasing need noted in moat enterprisee, particularly the
public enterprises, for assistance in the areas of organization and
management, the Malagasy Government decided to setup up the management unit
provided for when negotiating the accountancy and auditing organization and
training project within an existing enterprise, in this case RINDRA
sociallst enterprlse. The creatLon of a Management Consulting Department
within RINDRA in March 1985 resulted in a further need for technical
assitance, which was to result in an additional assistance contract with
the original Consulting fLrm in March 1985.
3.18 In order to enable RINDRA to extend its activities in the area of
computerized auditing and the auditing of banks and insurance companies, on
the one hand, and, on the other hand, to bolster its internal management, a
second assistance contract was signed in April 1985 with a French firm.
3.19 The credit allocated to the Accountancy Training Center, scheduled to
be spread over six years, was fully utilized in three years. It was used to
flnanced unforeseen expenditure at the appraisal level (teacher training
abroad, recourse to consultants for purposes of hirLng technical
assistants). The increase in the value of the dollar via-&-vie the SDR also
reduced the dollar value of the credit.
3.20 In view of RINDRA's new requirements and those of the Accountancy
Training Center, an adjustment in the credit proved necessary. The
reallocation process, carried out in April 1986, was as follows (amounts In
SDRs):
Category of Credit     According to Subsidiary  Upward  Downward    After
Credit     Credit     Adjustment  Adjustment  Adjustment
Agreement   Agreement
Consultants for        250,000                          s6,0O0      200,060
legislation
Consultants for CFC    1,680,000             1,8X0,00                ,440,000
Consultants for RINDRA    2,200,000   8,000,600    1,150,000        4,160,000
Consultante for privete   820,060                        426,000    895,000
f I rmo
Local CFC personnol   880,060                           896,000     266,000
CFC procurement        P00,0me                                      900,000
Unallocated            2,940,000   2,140,000             2,090,000   50,000
TOTAL             9,400,000              2,998,000   2,966,000   9,400,000
3.21  The new requirements of RINDRA and the Accountancy TrainLng Center
were largely financed by drawing on the non-earmarked funds and on the funds
intended for Component D.
3.22 In order to ensure continuity for CFC activities, in 1985 the
Government found it necessary to prepare a new project. CFC, whose
activities had extended into the area of management training, assumed a new
names "Institut National des Sciences Comptables et d'Administration
d'Entreprises (National Institute for Accountancy and Business Management]
(INSCAE). For operational purposes, the INSCAE received a new credit from
the World Bank (Credit 1661-MAG) in April 1986. This situation complicates
the appraisal of Component B of Credit 1155-MAG, which concerns CFC only;



27
the World Bank (Credit 1661-MAG) in April 1986. This situation complicates
the appraisal of Component B of Credit 1155-MAG, which concerns CFC only;
the performance of CFC thus cannot be assessed except in light of what has
been accomplished by the INSCAE.
Successive Delays in Effective Dates and Closing Dates
3.23 The effective date of the credit, scheduled for October 12, 1981, was
postponed twice (January 12 and April 12, 1982) before finally coming into
force on May 6, 1982. The Bank's conditions for the credit taking effect
were as follows:
-     appointment of a Director of CFC and a Director of RINDRA, made
official by decree;
-     the draft contract of the Director of RINDRA had to be submitted
to him;
-     the subsidiary loan agreement needed to be signed.
3.24 The hiring of the Directors-General of CFC and RINDRA, who according
to plans were to be expatriates, took almost a year, which explains the
successive delays in the effective date.
3.25 The closing date for the credit was scheduled to be March 1988. At
the request of the Government of Madagascar, the Wor'2d Bank agreed to roll
the date back, first to September 30, 1988, subsequently to December 31,
1988, and finally to June 30, 1989.
Financial Status of the Credit
3.26 As yet, there has been no financial audit on the use of Credit 1155-
MAG. The information provided to us by the Ministry of Finance indicates
the following status as of March 31, 1989 (amounts in SDRs):
COMPONENT                                        Domestic   Foreign
Currency   Exchange   Total
Study of accounting legislation and standardization    0.1  0.3        0.4
Creation and operation of an accountancy training  2.3      2.2        4.6
center
Strengthening the activities of RINDOA socialist  0.3       2.8        3.1
enterpris-
Support for private management consulting firms  0.2        1.0        1.2
Basic costs                                  2.9        6.3         9.2
Allowances for:
Unfor-seen *quipment                        0.3        0.6        0.9
Price changes                               1.9        2.2        4.1
TOTAL                                     6.1        9.1        14.2
3.27 During June 1984, the Bank authorized RINDRA to finance $125,000 in
equipment from Category 3. As of March 31, 1989, almost all of the credit
(99.6 percent) had been exhausted.



28
4.    COMPONENT A:  ACCOUNTING LEGISLATION AND STANDARDIZATION
CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES
4.01 There are few accounting experts in Madagascar, and they are extremely
scarce in enterprises whose accounts are audited; financial information is
unreliable and is presented in a different way by each iniividual
enterprise. In 1981, when the project began, the overall status of the
accounting profession had scarcely changed from that of 1970, for lack of
any training in accountancy and owing to the fact that the prevailing
legislation set forth no standards for the format or auditing of financial
statements. The only official regulations applicable to financial
statements that were effectively adhered to were those of the Tax
Directorate, which required that companies with a turnover in excess of
FMG 30 million (or over $150,000) submit statements which documented their
tax returns in accordance with a given code of accounts; this accounting
code, however, was limited to providing a breakdown of the accounting
headings to be posted to the books, but did not govern the annual financial
statements themselves.
4.02 The decree of February 7, 1969 had, to be sure, introduced and adapted
the French code of accounts of 1947 (revised in 1957) to Madagascar, but no
directives could be enforced. Moreover, the 1867 law on corporations
stipulated only that financial statements had to be submitted to
shareholders after review by an auditor, whose qualifications were not
specified. The law does not indicate the proper content of the financial
statements or the extend to which they had to be verified by the auditors,
with the result that this auditing process is often rudimentary. The 1925
law on limited liability companies is just as lacking in specificity.
4.03 The objectives of the "Accounting Legislation and Standardization"
component are thus to:
-     enable enterprises to obtain, in a timely manner, reliable and
informative financial statements which allow for effective
control and planning of management;
-     facilitate, through the uniform format of accounting
information, the preparation of sectoral, regional, and national
statistics which are of value at the various planning levels;
-     develop the accounting profession by creating a demand for
individuals with the skills required to draw up, analyze,
interpret and audit the financial statements prepared in
accordance with the lawful professional standards.
AGREED REFORMS
4.04 The new legislative measures envisaged should require that:
-     organizations functioning as companies maintain books of
accounts, and prepare and publish in due time financial
statements that are consistent with a new and more restrictive
accounting code;
-     these financial statements be audited by authorized independent
auditors, who shall certify that they correctly provide a
faithful and honest image of the company's financial position,
it being understood that this annual auditing requirement shall



29
be applied gradually, beginning with the major companies in the
public sector;
-    the persons authorized to act as auditors have the minimum
qualifications required;
-    the order of professional accountants and auditors define
accounting and auditing standards, keep them up to date, propose
amendments to them as necessary, and investigate any violations
thereof.
The preparation of legislation measures should also entail review of
commercial law provisions (company law, criminal law, taxation, etc.).
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.05 With the help of consultants, the Malagasy Government will carry out
this portion of the project in accordance with the following timetable:
-    December 1, 1981:  establishment of a committee entrusted with
drafting the proposed legislation on:
-    existing laws;
-    organization of accountancy and auditing;
-    organization of the accounting profession;
-    April 30, 1982:  submission of the new legislative proposals to
the Government and the Bank;
-    July 31, 1982:  passage of the legislation.
4.06 This component of the project has always been considered to be high
priority.  Its contents have an impact on a significant proportion of all
the other components.
IMPLEMENTATION
Hiring of a consulting firm to assist the Government
4.07 In June 1981, the Ministry of Economy and Commerce drew up a short
list of consulting firms to be approached. At the end of this cycle, in
August 1982, one firm was ranked first. However, no contract was signed
after the relevant negotiations. At the request of the Order of
Accountants and Authorized Accountants, which sought to be involved in the
project, the procedure was repeated. A new short list of consultants was
then scheduled to be prepared by November 1982; as earlier, the list was
composed solely of foreign firms. A request by the Malagasy Government to
include local firms was submitted to the Bank in July 1983, but was refused
for the following reasons:
-    the call for bids had already been issued in April 1983, and
five of the six firms consulted had already replied;
-    the Bank felt that the Order had neither the experience nor the
necessary skills to undertake by itself the study of the
relevant legislation and the accounting code, and, as both judge
and defendant, would lack the required independence.
4.08 After reviewing the bids in February 1984, a firm was selected though
it was not the one ranked first following the first round. The contract
was drawn up in May 1984 and signed in December of the same year. The



30
mission of the selected consulting firm was to cover a 12-month period
beginning on the date of notification (January 28, 1985).
4.9 Thus, more than three years had passed between the drawing up of the
first short list and the starting of work. Apart from the fact that the
international call for bids took almost a year (their were two calls made),
the delay in starting up the "Accounting Legislation and Standardization"
component may also be explained by the problems of relations between the
Order, the Government, and the Bank. In particular, the Order was
extremely wary of the Government's "statist" options, which, in the
socialist-oriented spirit of the times, had created RINDRA, and of the
Bank, which was singing the praises of Anglo-Saxon styles of auditing and
had a tendency to resort exclusively to Canadian consultants and teachers.
The atmosphere relaxed thanks to the selection of a French firm for the
study of legislation.
4.10 The consultants contract provided for a workload of 15 man/months
(less than initially projected) to deal with the following objectives:
-    critical analysis of the situation as regards:
-    accounting standardization;
-    accounting legislation;
-    the teaching of accountancy;
-    proposals for new legal provisions regarding:
-    the new code of accounts;
-    the dissemination and teaching of the new accounting
system.
The contract provided for the involvement of a Malagasy legal specialist
for 2 man/months.
4.11 The consulting firm submitted its reports with their analyses and
proposals on accounting legislation, accounting standardization, and the
teaching of accountancy in June 1985; the reports setting forth formal
recommendations were submitted on January 15, 1986. The proposals,
initially looked upon favorably by the parties concerned, were modified
considerably, with the result that the consultants were unable to submit
its final report until March 5, 1987. As of March 31, 1989, the
"Accounting Legislation and Standardization" component cost SDR 195,902.
4.12 In its appraisal report of October 1981, the Bank provided for the
creation of a committee which would write the draft legislation; this
committee was never set up. In November 1981, the Order of Authorized
Accountants suggested the establishment of a joint structure consisting of
professionals and representatives of the public authorities. Reaffirmed on
many occasions, this desire for concerted work was to bear fruit in
December 1982, when the representatives of the Order and of the public
authorities began to meet as an informal committee initially charged with
drawing up the terms of reference and specifications for the services of
the consulting firm called upon to assist the Government in carrying out
the "Accounting Legislation and Standardization" component.
4.13 In February 1984, a monitoring committee was officially established;
it was made up of 20 individuals representing the accounting profession and



31
the public authorities. The Committee, chaired by an Advisor to the
President of the Republic, proceeded inter alia to:
-     study and finalize the terms of reference and specifications
drawn up by the informal committee;
-     examine the reports prepared by the Consultants (guidance,
control, approval).
4.14 A small, informal drafting committee for the new code of accounts aid
the annotated guide was subsequently set up in late 1986; the monitoring
committee participated in the drafting and final approval of these
documents, which were published in September 1987 (Decree of September 17,
1987).
4.15 Since 1982, the representatives of the accounting profession have
participated in a decisive manner in carrying out the work of Component A,
and have done so at no charge. This participation made it possible to
achieve results which reflected a broad consensus.
5.    COMPONENT B:  CREATION AND OPERATION OF CFC
THE BANK'S OBJECTIVES
5.01 Three major factors motivated the establishment of the Accountancy
Training Center (CFC):
-     Tne departure of foreign supervisors and technicians following
the events of May 1972: these persons had previously held the
majority of management positions in the enterprises. The
situation was accentuated after the nationalizations of 1975.
In many cases, these foreign personnel were replaced by
officials who had no experience in commercial accounting or by
accountants from the private sector who lacked the necessary
qualifications.
-     The absence of any high-level educational and training
institution in the area of accountancy: the only accounting
courses offered are supplementary courses as part of advanced
studies in management or economics, or the courses offered by
the Chamber of Commerce and a few private business schools on
the basic level. This lack did not make it possible to provide
qualified middle-range staff to compensate for the departure of
expatriates.
5.02 Moreover, this situation contributed to the stagnation of the
accounting profession: no educational and training institution was awarding
any diploma in accountancy. The membership of the Order (6 expert
accountants and 30 authorized accountants) had remained at the same level
since 1971.   The Central Governmented needed enterprises to provide it with
up-to-date and reliable financial statements for purposes of legal control
and for purposes of macroeconomic information. The level and qualifications
of Malagasy accounting supervisors as well as the use of an outdated code of
accounts (1969) did not make it possible to meet these objectives.



32
AGREED ARRANGEMENTS
5.03 The fundamental role assigned to CFC is that of teaching accountancy.
Several basic conditions were agreed for meeting this objective.
5.04 As regards teaching:
-    CFC was to provide courses during the day for graduates of
secondary school (or the equivalent), and evening courses for
persons already employed as accountants. These courses were to
begin in 1982 and 1983, respectively.
-    The curriculum was to be established by CFC in consultation with
the officers of the Order of Accounting Experts and the
representatives of the business community, on the basis of the
proposal prepared by the appraisal mission.
-    The full-time course was to include three cycles of studies:
-    a first cycle lasting 2 years for the accounting technician's
diploma;
-    a second 2-year cycle for a master's degree in accountancy;
-    a third 1-year cycle, with a 2- to 3-year training session in an
enterprise, for the expert accountant's diploma.
-    Entry into the first year was to be open to students holding the
baccalaur6at following a competitive examination. Admission to
the second cycle is open to graduates of the first cycle and to
certain university graduates.
-    In order to plan its activities better, CFC was to carry out a
study on the future market demand for qualified accountants.
-    For the first five years of the project, the first-year classes
were to be limited to 2, and no class was to have more than 50
students.
-    The number of expatriate teaching staff was to be reduced
gradually, with full staffing by Malagasy nationals beginning In
1989.
5.05 As regards financings
-    The cost of this 6-year project, including capital and operating
costs, was estimated at $7.4 million, including $3.6 million in
foreign exchange.
-    IDA financing was estimated at S6 million, with $1.4 million in
Central Government financing for local currency outlays.
-    The average annual cost per student was estimated at $4,900 for
the first four years (1983-1986) and expected to decline to
$2,000 by 1989.
5.06 As regards organizational aspects:
-    The Ministry of Economy and Commerce was to assume
administrative supervision of CFC.
-    CFC was to be managed by a Board of Directors made up of
representatives from the Ministries of Economy and Commerce,
Finance, and Higher Education, the future Higher Accountancy
Council, the Order of Accounting Experts, the business
community, and the Director of the institution.
In addition to its teac.hing staff, the Center was to hire a Deputy
Director, a Dean of Students, an Administrative Assistant, an Accounting



33
Officer and two secretaries, for a total of 18 persons for the duration of
the project.
?ROJECT EXECUTION
5.07 Execution timetable: Six major dates mark the history of CFC:
12/14/81           Creation of CFC by Decree No. 81290
April 1982         Designation of the first Director of the
Center
October 1982       Opening of the Center
February 1983      Admission of the first class of students
March 1983         Initial night courses
September 1987    Graduation of the first class (Master's
degrees in Accountancy
5.08 The full-time courses began 12 months behind schedule, but the evening
courses started only one month later, without the one-year lag provided for.
The extremely large number of applicat.ons from the enterprises prompted
this more rapid timing for the evening courses.
5.09 As regards teaching: The personnel hired and the number of students
per class were maintained within prescribed levels. The figures are as
follows:
February         1983       1984        1985       1988       Cumulative
Group 1          s0         46         60         40
Group 2          s0         49         49         43
TOTAL            100        94         99         83         378
5.10  The number of students in continuing training (night courses) is as
follows:
1983       1984       l9i5       1988       Cumulative
February         298        236        222        349
September        170        206        253        48.'
TOTAL            468        440        476        813         2,198
5.11  The number of candidates for admission, ranging from 700 to 1,000,
bears witness to the public's interest in training within CFC, and the
limited number of applicants selected highlights the severity of the
process.
5.12 The broad outlines of the program prepared by the appraisal mission
were maintained in the various full-time training programs.
5.13 Initially, the contents of the materials taught were not always suited
to the Malagasy situation (Anglo-Saxon accounting systems). The students,
however, managed to adapt rather easily, and the contents of the program
were successfully reoriented later (e.g., PCG 1987).



34
Officer and two secretaries, for a total of 18 persons for years one
through five.
PROJECT EXECUTION
5.07 Execution timetable: Six major dates mark the history of CFC:
12/14/81        Creation of CFC by Decree No. 81290
April 1982      Designation of the first Director of the Center
October 1982   Opening of the Center
February 1983  Admission of the first class of students
March 1983      Initial night courses
September 1987 Graduation of the first class (Master's degrees
in Accountancy
5.08 The full-time courses beg&n 12 months behind schedule, but the
evening courses started only one month later, without the one-year lag
provided for. The extremely large number of applications from the
enterprises prompted this more rapid timing for the evening courses.
5.09 As regards teaching: The personnel hired and the number of students
per class were maintained within prescribed levels. The figures are as
follows:
February         1988       1984       1986       1986       Cumulative
Group 1          s6         46         56         40
Group 2          S5         49         49         48
TOTAL            100        94         99         88         376
5.10 The number of students in continuing training (night courses) is as
follows:
1968      1984        1986       1986       Cumulative
February         298        235        222        349
September        170        206        263        484
TOTAL            4a8        440        476        818        2,196
5.11 The number of candidates for admission, ranging from 700 to 1,000,
bears witness to the public's interest in training within CFC, and the
limited number of applicants selected highlights the severity of the
process.
5.12 The broad outlines of the program prepared by the appraisal mission
were maintained in the various full-time training programs.
5.13 Initially, the contents of the materials taught were not always
suited to the Malagasy situation (Anglo.-Saxon accounting systems). The
students, however, managed to adapt rather easily, and the contents of the
program were successfully reoriented later (e.g., PCG 1987).



35
5.14 The number of training hours through the fourth year (2 sessions per
year) are as follows:
1st year           675 hours
2nd year           720 hours
3rd year           585 hours
4th year           338.5 hours
These hours are consistent with the programs provided.
5.15 The dropout rate is higher than the anticipated 20 percent, especially
for the first class. The main reason is that the majority of the students
registered in the first class have also taken ccurses at the university in
order to take advantage of scholarship opportunities. This situation has
become less pronounced after the large number of failures. Another reason is
the difficulty of the examinations, as the students are required to score at
least 12/20 on average. The level for disqualification is 12/20 for core
courses and 10/20 for ancillary courses.
5.16 Most of the students who have failed have been redirected toward the
continuing (evening) program of training.
Initial    Students   Dropout   Students   Dropout
class size receiving  rate (X)   receiving  rate (X)
DSSC                DESCA
Number              Number
Percent             Percont
1st     100        51        61        49         18         so         10
class
2nd     94         73        78         22        19         90         10
class
3rd     99         72        73        27         17         85         15
class
Admission for the 4th year (DESCA preparation) is limited to the top 20
graduates among the holders of the DSSC.
5.17  The number of teaching staff is lower than projected, while the
classes themselves have been more crowded. CFC was able to provide the
courses in a proper manner because the number of teaching hours for
permanent staff are three times higher than those for part-timers, and
thanks to the assistance of expatriate teachers on short-term missions
(3 months on average).
5.18  The staffing situation for teaching personnel is as follows:
1983    1984     1986     1986     1987     1988     1989
Expatriates        2        4        6        4        3        2        6
Malagasy nationals    2     6         7       7        13       9        10
SUBTOTAL           4        10       12       11       16       11      1i
Part-time           7       a        6        12       17       11       23
contractual a
TOTAL               11      13       18       23       33       22       39
Projected          18       36       43       54       83       63       63



36
5.19 The teaching personnel are always hired by competitive examination
(teaching simulation test). The minimum qualifications required are a
diploma from the second cycle of university studies together with sound
professional experience. The professional position held by the candidate is
thus also taken into consideration.
5.20 Six trainees were sent to Canada's University of Quebec at Trois
Riviares (UQTR) for second cycle training in accountancy from 1984 to 1987.
Three returned to teach at CFC. One stayed in Canada and two have failed
their courses. Sending students abroad for training was not provided for in
the initial costs of the project. The general level of the teaching staff
appears to be meeting the needs for covering the teaching materials.
5.21 CFC has a separate office (Student Placement Office) in charge of
finding positions for students in trainee stages or graduating. However,
the office has confined itself to finding positions for trainees since 1987
so as to make the students themselves more accountable for their future
professional path.
5.22 CFC also has adequate educational materials: its facilities are well
maintained, Its library contains 30,000 items (3,000 titles),
microcomputers, overhead projectors, etc.
5.23 Financial performance for the first 6 years is summarized below:
Projected       Projected       Reallocations    Disbursements
(appraisal      (credit         (April 1986)    as at 12/16/88
report)         agreement)      (SDR millions)    (t millions)
(l millions)    (l millions)
(1)             (2)             (3)             (4)
Consultants    1.9             1.630            3.440           8.462
Local staff    1.4             0.680            0.266           0.282
Supplies/equip.  1.2           0.900            0.900           0.826
TOTAL          4.6             8.190            4.606           4.670
5.24  The initial loan was fully utilized by 1984.  Two particular points
are salient in this regard:
-     the "consultants" heading is significantly greater than the
forecast amount (+ $1.562 million).
-     sizable savings have been made with regard to local staff.
5.25  There are a number of reasons for this situation:
-     Some spending had to be redirected during the course of project
execution, including:
-     the choice of using a consulting firm for hiving the director of
the Center and 4 teachers, instead of individual hiring from
specialized agencies (Louvain, HEC Lausanne, ESSEC Paris, etc.).
This option was authorized by the Bank, which did not foresee
the financial consequences. The impact was a swelling of the
cost per man/month ($10,000 for the director and $8,500 for the



37
teachers, instead of an average of $7,200), for an increase of
over 70 percent in projected costs.
-    Malagasy teachers were sent to Canada for training: 6 teachers
were sent at a cost of $1,300 per man/month.
-    The dollar appreciated, reducing the equivalent of the credit
(awarded in SDRs) from $11.5 million in 1981 to $9.9 million in
1985.
-    The delay in starting courses led to additional consultant
costs: the contract with the first consulting firm Initially
signed for $2 million over a 2-year period had to be extended by
9 months on 4/8/84 and by an additional six months on 11/13/87,
increasing its cost to $3.3 million.
5.26 In order to ensure continuity in CFC activities, additional financing
proved necessary. This second IDA credit, for $13.5 million (No. 1661-
MAG), encountered approval difficulties in 1986 within the National
Parliament. The new project added a management component to the initial
training component for CFC, and the unit assumed the name of the INSCAE.
-    The average cost per full-time student as of 12/31/88 is
estimated at $1,864 (full cost, including technical assistance);
however, according to the forecasts in the Staff Appraisal
Report the level of $2,000 would not be reached until the
expatriate teaching staff was replaced in its entirety by
Malagasy nationals (the conversion rate applied in the estimate
is that of 12/31/88, namely $1 - FMG 1523.40). The exchange rate
used in the report to the President of May 1981, was $1 - FMG
200. If costs are re-estimated using that rate, the cost per
student $14,197).
-    Registration and tuition fees were not adjusted until 1988:
Full
Time
Training
Examination fee    Tuition per          Special exam
subject field      fee (tripled)
1983   1,000               21,000              5,000
1988   1,000               23,000              5,000
Evening courses
Registration fee      Tuition per session
1983                  5,000                 __
1988                  5,000                 10,000



38
5.27 The average annual revenues per student (full-time) are estimated at
FMG 337,000 in 1983 and FMG 369,000 in 1988, whereas the average cost per
student was FMG 2,839,370 in 1988 (1,864 x 1523.4).
5.28 The former CFC (the present INSCAE) is supervised by the Ministry of
Finance and Economy. CFC had frequent changes in directors: three
different individuals served from 1982 to 1986. Disagteements have been
noted, moreover, between the first consulting firm and certain Center
Directors. CFC has a relatively sound operational structure, but hesitation
has nonetheless been noted in the assignment of certain duties: job slots
are provided for but remain vacant (Deputy Director, Dean of Students), and
others not provided for have been filled (general coordinator, Director of
Research), without significantly hampering the proper functioning of the
institution.
6.    COMPONENT C:  STRENGTHENING THE ACTIVITIES OF RINDRA
CONTEXT AND AGREED ARRANGEMENTS
6.01 RINDRA, set up as a socialist enterprise in April 1979, had become
operational in October 1978. It was established in order to provide
auditing services to the enterprises owned by the Central Government or
controlled by it, in particular the socialist enterprises.
6.02 In 1980, the Director-General of RINDRA, whose training was limited to
government accounting methodology, had acquired no working experience in a
professional auditing office. The World Bank was of the opinion that to
work effectively, the Director-General of RINDRA should be a competent
authorized accountant with the desired degree of experience. The Malagasy
Government agreed to appoint a new Director-General with the necessary
experience and qualifications.
6.03 After its founding, RINDRA signed a 27-month technical assistance
contract with an international accounting firm:
-     hiring auditors;
setting up training programs in auditing, accountancy and
management methods and mechanisms;
-     supervising the work carried out by the auditors.
6.04  This approach was deemed insufficient by the Bank, which felt that
RINDRA needed international supervision for at least five years while the
firm's involvement was scheduled for only 2 years and 3 months. Accordingly,
the Bank provided under agreement 1155-MAG for a credit of SDR 3 million to
strengthen, with technical assistance, the activities of RINDRA (operational
work and internal management). The project included a training program with
the following characteristics:
-     the organization of seminars in Madagascar;
-     the organization of training sessions abroad each year for one
manager, so as to enable him to freshen his knowledge of the
changing techniques for auditing and to bring himself up to date
on the working conditions for his counterparts in the firm
selected;



39
-    sending two senior staff on training sessions of 3 to 4 months
each for purposes of receiving supplementary training in
auditing and broadening their experience by participating in
audit missions conducted by the firm selected at its clients,
offices.
6.05 Ultimately, RINDRA was to have the same full autonomy in technical
spheres as regarde auditing and management that is enjoyed by an auditing
firm, as well as autonomy on the level of -adling the internal training of
its own personnel.
6.06 The balance sheet of RINDRA as at June 30, 1980 showed a net negative
position of $0.8 million as a result of the losses sustained during its
first 21 months of business ($1 million in cumulative losses). The Bank
considered that if it could increase its business by reducing its fees, 1/
RINDRA would be in a position to repay to the Government a loan of SDR 3
million at 12 percent interest over 10 years and with 3 years, grace, and
to pay it reasonable dividends. RINDRA was, moreover, to establish and
maintain a sound financial position and sufficient working capital.
EXECUTION TIMETABLE
6.07 Appointment of the Director-General of RINDRA was one of the
conditions for activating the credit. As mentioned earlier, the planned
implementation date of October 12, 1981 had to be postponed twice (January
12, April 12, 1982) before finally taking effect on May 6, 1982.
6.08 In the absence of any precise indicators with regard to this issue in
the project appraisal report, the hiring was scheduled to take place
sometime during 1981. The assistance contract was to be for 2 1/2 years.
6.09 The Director-General of RINDRA was not named until April 1982, and
did not take up his duties until October of the same year. The Director-
General was supposed to be a competent, authorized accounting expert, for
which reason he could not be found in Madagascar where accounting experts
all already have their own firms and, moreover, are in short supply.
6.10 This first, expatriate Director-General, who had vigorous disputes
with the audit staff of RINDRA, was to be replaced in March 1984, some 9
months before his contract came to expiry, by a Malagasy Director-General.
The mission of the expatriate Director-General was regarded as a failure by
all concerned; he cost RINDRA two years of salary payments.
6.11 Following limited consultations, an auditing assistance contract was
signed in March 1982 with a firm. This contract, scheduled for 2 years,
was to be extended to December 31, 1984. The result was scarcely more
satisfactory: little had been done in the area of computerized auditing
and the auditing of banks and insurance companies; omissions in the
l/In the course of project appraisal, the Bank noted that the RINDRA's fees
were 40 percent higher than those of the other accounting firms.



40
assistance provided were also noted as regards making improvements in the
internal management of RINDRA. The Bank subsequently accepted a second
assistance contract signed in April 1985 with another firm, initially for
29 months and subsequently extended to 44 months, or until December 31,
1988. Except in the case of the computerized accounting system, which had
many imperfections, RINDRA was satisfied with the services provided by the
latter firm.
6.12 As of December 31, 1988, the Malagasy expenditures under Credit 1155-
MAG by the technical assistance firms are as follows:
FIRMS                     Training
Consultants   abroad       Equipment     Supplios      Other
FIRM A
(in US$)   1,641,276      69,841      67,772        36,135          146,460
FIRM 8
(in F)    6,827,266     1,023,691     712,907.34    697,764       2,297,776
Firm A thus cost $1.8 million and Firm B F 11.5 million ($1.9 million at
the exchange rate of December 31, 1988).
6.13 As agreed during the appraisal and scheduled in the assistance
contract, training sessions were organized in Madagascar for RINDRA
personnel by both permanent and short-term missions, and, from 1983 to
1988, the managoirs, senior staff and junior staff of RINDRA received
training in Canada and in France.
6.14 The number of hours of consultant involvement at RINDRA is shown in
the following table:
FIRM               Period of activity    Permanent consultants  Consultants on mission
FIRM A             1982-1985            6,912 hours          3,947 hours
FIRM B             1986-1988            3,216 hours          6,634 hours
The two firms thus intervened for 19,709 hours.  These interventions
pertained to the organization of RINDRA's internal management, the
supervision of missions, and staff training proper.
6.15 The number of operational personnel at RINDRA during the period of
involvement of the two firms was as follows:
GRADE           1981    1982    1983    1984    1986    1986    1987    1988
Manager         2       2       2        4       4       4        4       7
Senior          4       7       7        7       7       6        11      10
Junior          20      16      14       12      12      9        12      12
Assistant       --      --      --       9       8       16       6       6
TOTAL         28      26       24      32      31       34      33      a6
6.16 Over the same period, 23 persons, including 3 managers, 2 senior
staff, 11 junior staff and 7 assistants, left RINDRA. One manager set up
his own firm; one of the two others took the position of Director-General



41
of a company; the senior staff, junior staff and assistants are for the
most part working in private companies. It is nonetheless true that the 7
managers and 10 senior staff employed in 1988 have been working with RINDRA
since 1981, and accordingly have fully benefitted from the technical
assistance. Moreover, the number of RINDRA staff has been maintained
through new hiring.
6.17 The number of operational personnel receiving training abroad over
the years is as follows:
GRADE        1983     1984      1986     1986      1987      1988     TOTAL
Managor      1        4         1         2        4         a         15
Senior       4        a         6         1        3         6         22
Junior       --       --        2         1        --        --        3
TOTAL        6        7         8         4        7         9         40
These 40 auditors received 9,880 hours of training.  On average, somewhat
over 2 managers and 4 senior staff and junior staff received training
abroad each year, well exceeding the forecasts.
6.18 The creation of a management consulting unit was one of the project's
objectives in assistance to the management of enterprises initiated by the
Government in 1978. The idea of creating this management unit within
RINDRA was not part of the appraisal of the accountancy and auditing
organization and training project; it was incorporated into the project at
a later time following a March 1984 request by the Malagasy Government. In
the view of the Government, it was easier and less costly to set up the
unit in an existing company than to create a new one; audit and management
consulting work tend to complement one another, with one generally leading
into the other.
6.19 The Management Consulting Department created in 1985 was to receive
international technical assistance for:
-    hiring and training staff;
-    supervising intervention missions.
A contract was subsequently signed in March 1985 with the consulting firm
aiding the accounting division, initially for 18 months, then 24 months,
and ultimately extended until June 30, 1988.
6.20 The costs of the technical assistance to the "Management Consulting"
Department are shown by expenditure category in the following table:
Source of
technical
casistanco   Consultants    Training   Equipment     Suppl ies     Other
FIRM A (in   603,815.63    43,986.20   81,102.79     27,304.64     202,644.26
USt)
All in all, the assistance will have cost $958,852.52.
6.21 From 1985 to 1988, Firm A was involved on a permanent or short-term
basis for a total of 9,068 hours; over the same period, the operational
staff of the Management Consulting Department evolved as follows:



42
GRADE       1984          1986         1986          1987          1988
Manager     --            --           8             a             3
Senior      --            --           2             6             1
Juntor      16            10           6             18            10
TOTAL     16            1O            11           27            14
Three managers, 1 senior staff and 4 junior staff receLved training abroad.
6.22 The Management Consulting Department is highly unstable from the
staffing standpoint; in 1988 alone, 13 persons resigned. Two of the
managers, 1 senior staff member and 1 junior staff who received training
abroad left the Department in 1986, 1987, and 1985, respectively.
6.23 To help RINDRA with execution of Component C of the project, it was
planned for the Public Treasury to on-lend to it the equivalent of SDR 3
million within the framework of a subsidiary loan agreement. The agreement
was signed in June 1981.
6.24 In order to finance the second contract for assistance to the Audit
Department and the creation of the Management Consulting Department, a
codicil to the subsidiary loan agreement, in the amount of SDR 1,150,000,
was signed in July 1986. As of March 31, 1988, SDR 4,148,005.76 of the SDR
4,150,000 allocated had been spent.
7.   COMPONENT D:  STRENGTHENING THE CAPACITY OF PRIVATE FIRMS
CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES
7.01 The project for assistance to local firms in the area of accounting
and financial organization is an integral aspect of the public authorities
desire to enhance the reliability of the Information provided by
enterprises, this by improving the skills of the local accounting firms
called upon to assist them. However, for these offices to improve their
technical skills, they must turn to foreign consulting firms or expatriate
personnel, which entails foreign exchange problems.
7.02 To resolve these problems, the public authorities asked the IDA, as
part of the accounting organization program, to include a component on
Assistance to Local Firms to be financed by the credit.
7.03 There were two objectives for the project:
-    assistance from and training by foreign consultants at private
local firms, focusing on new techniques in the area of
accounting and financial organization;
-    feasibility study for the creation of a public management
consulting agency.
7.04 The first component of the assistance will consist in training the
personnel of the local offices in new organization techniques so as to
enable them to provide the appropriate technical offices of local
enterprises which need to improve the way they prepare their accounts and



43
improve their control and planning of operations. This training should
address the following issues:
-    study of the accounting techniques used by companies for each
cycle of activity;
-    evaluation of the quality of internal controls and the gathering
of the necessary operational and financial data;
-    designing and providing assistance to enterprises for applying
the most appropriate techniques.
7.05 The feasibility study on a public management consulting agency should
consist in identifying the current requirements of the Malagasy economy as
regards consulting services, surveying the existing consulting activities,
defining areas for activity by the unit, and proposing a structure and
timetable for introducing the new entity.
COST OF PROJECT
7.06 The cost of the project was initially estimated at $1.5 million,
including some resources for the management consulting agency, before a
downward revision to SDR 820,000 prior to project execution.
7.07 The final reallocation to Component D amounted to SDR 395,000, this
following the incorporation of the feasibility study component into
Component C of the project. Expenses from Component D were to be financed
100 percent by the IDA.
EXECUTION
Assistance to Accountancy Firms
7.08 Four salient features have marked the life of this sub-component of
the project during its execution phase, namely:
-    delay in initiating the project;
-    reluctance of local accounting firms to make use of the credit;
-    actual uses;
-    the reallocation of April 1986.
7.09 The first effective use of the credit was in May 1984, i.e., 24
months after it came into effect (May 1982), even though the credit
agreement had bean ratified in June 1981. Among the reasons contributing
to this delay are the plan on implementation modalities, the lack of any
suitable information policy both for the users (local accounting firms) and
for the final beneficiaries (enterprises), and the period of apprehension
about the new accounting legislation and the standardization of the
profession.
7.10 The Order of Expert Accountants to which all the major private
accounting and management firms belong was skittish about the use of the
funds which could be mobilized under Component D. This hesitation,
demonstrated by the President of the Order in a memorandum of November
1981, is explained on the one hand by the inability of the parties
concerned (private firms, enterprises) to bear the high cost of an
organization mission from foreign accountancy firms and, on the other hand,
by the fact that the procedure for granting credit was unclear.



44
7.11 The on-lending of these funds by the Government in the form of
subsidies was requested by the Order, in accordance with clearly defined
allocations and plans so that each Malagasy firm would receive proper
training. In addition, no Information meeting was held for enterprises
supervisors and economic managers with a view to developing initiatives for
use of the credit.
7.12 Ultimately, two operations were financed by the credit, these through
the two major private firms in the country, FIVOARANA and RAMAHOLIMIHASO.
7.13 RAMAHOLIMIHASO submitted the first request for financing under
Component D of Credit 1155-MAG on November 7, l983. The aim of the
financing was to develop suitable computerized solutions for problems of
administrative, financial and accounting management, as well as for
monitoring management and personnel management within the BFV. The
request, supported by a technical assistance contract between
RAMAHOLIMIHASO and a French firm, was approved by the IDA in December 1983.
The contract amount was $320,000; the operation began in May 1984 and was
completed in 1986.
7.14 FIVOARANA submitted its request in favor of another French firm in
February 1985. This request, for $64,500, followed an offer for
Information in associated offices for preparing the SNI's master plan for
computerization and for defining the steps to be taken In the short and
medium terms within the framework of said master plan. The operation was
concluded in September 1986.
7.15 The Malagasy authorities' request for reallocation of the credit in
favor of Components B and C was accepted by the IDA (telex of April 1986),
which may be interpreted as a decision by both sides to close Component D
of the credit before the initially scheduled concluding date. By reducing
the amount allocated to $395,000 while the total drawings already made
amounted to SDR 445,112.52, including the amount of SDR 31,111.88 paid to
one of RINDRA's foreign consultants and charged incorrectly against
Component D, virtually nothing remains for this component of the credit.
FIVOARANA applied later to use the credit for personnel training, but was
turned down because the remaining balance was too small.
Creation of a public management consulting agency
7.16 In June 1983, i.e., two years after the credit agreement was signed,
and at the request of the Malagasy authorities, the IDA submitted proposed
terms of reference which defined the areas of future intervention of the
management consulting company to be created (OMEGA).
7.17 In November 1983, the Malagasy Government, given the inherent
cumbersomeness of creating a new company from scratch, had already opted
for setting up the advisory unit within an existing firm, RINDRA, SERDI, or
PNI, with preference expressed for RINDRA.
7.18 In March 1984, after a reminder was received from the Bank, a request
for financing the feasibility study was submitted to the Bank. In its
financing request, the Government expressed its desire to have the unit



45
incorporated within RINDRA, with a s'rict separation between that entity's
accounting and auditisg functions and management consulting functions.
7.19 In May 1984, Lhe list of fiLms consulted about providing assistance
to RINDRA management consulting uepartment was sent to the Bank. A
Canadian firm was selected, and began work in May 1984. The assistance
contract was financed from Component C of the credit.
8.   ASSFSSMENT OF OVERALL PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND FOLLOW-UP
THE BORROWER (GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR)
8.01 The accountancy and auditing organization and training project took a
considerable amount of time to get off the ground:  it took a year to meet
the implemsnting conditions, and there was a three-year gap between the
init'al request and the signing of the credit.
8.02 The scheduled effective date of Octsber 12, 1981, which occurred in
practice on May 6, 1982, was delayed because of:
-    the official appointment of the Director of CFC and of the
Director of RINDRA;
-    the submission to the World Bank of the ptoposed contract for
RINDRA Director;
-    signing of the subsidiary loan agreement by RINDRA and the
Public Treasury.
8.03 The hiring of the Directors-General of CFC and RINDRA, who were
intended to be expatriates, took almost a year, which explains the
succession of delays in the effective date of the project and the delay in
the initiation of Compcnents B and C.
8.04 While Components B and C actually entered the implementation phase in
May 1982, it was necessary to wait until May 1984 and January 1985,
respectively, for the initial execution of Components D and A. This delay
is largely attributable to the rather lengthy delays in the international
bidding procedures and to problems with relations between the Order, the
Government and the World Bank, in the case of Component A, and to
inadequate data for Component D, the balance of which was ultimately
allocated to Components B and C when further requests for funding were
submitted by Malagasy firms.
8.05 In the appraisal and initiation phase, the supervision of the project
was under the direct authority of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce,
whose duties were taken over in 1983 by the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce and, beginning in 1984, by the Ministry at the Presidency
Responsible for Economy and Finance (MPFE).
8.06 This series of changes resulted in a scattering of file materials and
some confusion during certain periods of project execution. The first
coordinator had a relative active role in getting the project going:
participation in negotiations, and interviewing and selecting the
consultants. The second coordinator within the MPFE principally had the
role of general coordinator of the activities growing out of the project,
assuming all the administrative functions: redistribution of telexes,



46
maintaining records on agreements and various documents, etc. He had the
advantage of having good ties wLth the Treasury as regards releasing funds.
8.07 Components B and C were under the responsibility of the Director-
General of RINDRA and the Director of the Accountancy Training Center,
respectively. Components A and D were under the direct supervision of the
project coordinator.
8.08 Management of the project overall was well designed for achieving the
objectives of eaclh component, despite the frequent changes in project
coordinators.
FOR THE BANK
8.09 The World Bank's resident mission, opened after the project began,
had no direct responsibility for project organization and very little
involvement in it. It was the Ministry, the project coordinator, which
kept it informed of progress with the project overall.
8.10 Several missions were carried out by the World Bank group during the
execution of the project. Originally, project monitoring was entrusted to
the Energy and Water Division , which was often on mission in Madagascar.
Subsequently, monitoring of CFC would be turned over to the Education
Division and, for a period of two years, the project was visited by two
missions each half-year, one from the Energy and Water Division and the
other from the Energy Division.
8.11 This situation was to change as from the third year, when the
monitoring of the entire project was concentrated in the Education
Division, which had arranged for the cooperation of a professor of
accounting. The timing of missions, initially half-yearly, slowed
beginning in 1984: April 1984, October 1985, July 1986, October 1987, and
February 1988.
9.   RESULTS AND PROBLEMS
COMPONENT A: ACCOUNTING LEGISLATION AND STANDARDIZATION
9.01 The major contributions expected from this new Code of Accounts, as
described by the Decree of September 17, 1987, are as follows:
-    the basic accounting principles are set forth explicitly;
-    the format of financial statements or accounting documents is
standardized;
-    the financing table designed to trace an enterprise's financial
flows during the fiscal year makes it possible to examine
developments as regards investment requirements and the
financing thereof, as well as causes for cash flow changes;
-    the table of standard magnitudes for the financial year or the
profit and loss account provides a better description of the
various stages of performance and facilitates compliance with
management's requirements for the information needed for the
national accounts;



47
-    an appendix describes the rules which had previously governed
the preparation of financial statements, and must make reference
to any significant factor;
-    an annotated guide for the General Code of Accounts (PCG 87)
formally stipulates the way the accounts function and the rules
for appraisal which are allowed, which are such as to facilitate
maintaining accounts as well as preparing fiiiancial statements
in accordance with the fundamental accounting principles
adopted.
9.02 Thus, financial statements drawn up in accordance with the new
provisions of the General Code of Accounts should meet the needs of users
for reliable, understandable, meaningful and comparable data, as was
expected during the course of project appraisal.
9.03 It is regrettable, however, that the belated publication of the
annotated guide on the accounting system and the absence of any policy on
disseminating information on the PCG 87 did not make it possible for the
enterprises to prepare in time for the introduction of the National Code of
Accounts [NPC] in 1989 as scheduled. The obligation to implement it has,
however, yet to be accompanied by any penalty, which should be incorporated
in the revision of the tax laws. The financing requests sent to the World
Bank by the consulting firm initially, and later by the Malagasy
authorities, for dissemination of the new accounting code have gone
unanswered.
9.04 To date, no new law has been passed as regards mandatory auditing for
enterprises. It bears notin- however, that the auditing of accounts is
carried out more and more, es. icially in the public enterprises, at the
request of Malagasy or international financial institutions and at the
request of the management bodies of the enterprises concerned. No new
legal provisions revising business law have been passed.
9.05 The Order of Expert Accountants and Authorized Accountants currently
has only 30 members (S expert accountants and 25 authorized accountants) as
compared to 36 members (36 expert accountants and 30 authorized
accountants) in 1981. The legal provisions governing the accounting
profession should, however, be released shortly; the status of the
profession overall may thus be expected to change. However, the Order has
not yet defined its "normal restrictions," i.e., its professional and
ethical code.
9.06 Since the establishment of the first informal commission, the desire
for regular cooperation between professionals and representatives of the
public authorities has become more and more apparent. It is therefore
envisaged to establish a Higher Accountancy Council in which professionals,
users, trainers and the public authorities would be involved. Its role
would be to further develop and update the gains made. This Council, once
under way, will have 6 years of experience w_th concertation and will have
a portfolio of problems to be resolved that was opened nearly a decade ago.



48
COMPONENT B: ACCOUNTANCY TRAINING CENTER
9.07 CFC was able to maintain a solid training level thanks to its team of
qualified and competent teachers, on the one hand, and to adequate working
conditions, on the other hand. With the new INSCAE project, the 1989
objective of replacing expatriat teaching staff appears premature, owing
to the small number of Malagasy .eachers for certain highly specialized
topics and those receiving training abroad.
9.08 To date, CFC-INSCAE has trained some 600 students on a full-time
basis and 3,400 students in evening courses. Admission to the institution
is highly sought after among the student population (there were 1,300
applicants at the last competitive ex mination). A system of "regional"
admiss'on quotas is currently being applied. The system functions as
follows:
-    60 percent of the new student admissions are not subject to
quotas;
-    40 percent are distributed in proportion to recorded population
by region.
9.09 Proposals for granting scholarships and creating an internship are
also under study (60 of them have been received). To date, some 160
students have been placed in enterprises, most of them in the private
sector, generally in jobs that match their accounting training. One of the
main reasons students are reluctant to work in the public sector is the
lack of any equivalent for CFC diploma in the civil service. This
situation is beginning to be resolved by the Government's ranking it
equivalent to the specialized diploma in accounting (DSSC) obtainable
through continuing education, in civil service category 6. Student
services was initially very active in placing students: all the students
from the first and second graduating classes are professionally employed.
9.10 Beginning with the third class, the placement rate has slowed
considerably: 35/55 for the students with the DSSC and 5/17 for the
students earning the DESCA. This slackening of f is surely independent of
the quality of training received, and is attributable to:
-    Abandonment of the system of placing in enterprises, so as to
make the students more responsible for their own futures;
-    The economic problem of increasing unemployment among the
educated;
-    Delay in introducing regulatory provisions regarding the
accounting profession.
9.11 As regards the use of funds, the most salient fact is the complete
use of the credit by the second year, followed by a reworking of the
project (creation of the INSCAE).
9.12 The final target of a cost of S2,000 per student has in large measure
been met. This result must be regarded in relative terms, however, taking
into account the depreciation of the Malagasy franc in terms of the U.S.
dollar (exchange rate of May 1981: $1 = FMG 200; rate of 12/31/88:
$1 - FMG 1,523.40). The cost of the institution overall seems high (about
FMG 1 billion per year). Revenues from tuition fees and other sources fall
far short of ensuring financial balance.



49
9.13 As for any institution of higher education, it is obvious that
maintaining adequate levels of finance will depend on the degree to which
Central Government subsidies are made available.
9.14 This mission, devoted to Credit 1155-MAG, has not addressed itself to
examining the present INSCAE (operation and effectiveness of the Board of
Directors, degree of effectiveness of the Pedagogical Council), which is
covered by Credit 1661-MAG.
COMPONENT C:  STRENGTHENING OF RINDRA'S ACTIVITIES
9.15 The organization chart of RINDRA's auditing and management consulting
operations as of December 31, 1988 appeared as follows:
Management Com.?tt..I
I_Dlr.ctor-Con.rli;
_eneral Secretariat                                         Managerial
Control *nd                                                             Internal
Audit                                                              |    Itrl
I l       ~~Logistics 
DIRECTORATE-GENERAL
i   tiongers                                    l_"~~~~~~~~~~~~Mn gtrI
-r-~~~~~~r
~~~~~~~~I                                       I IL@ 
Sonlor OMISSION CHIEFS*                                  l j  Senior MISSION CHIEFS]
Juniors             |Juniors                                            ;
___     _, _ __ _                                I            . 
1CONSULTING DIVISION                          jAUDIT DIVISIOIN
9.16 When the project was drawing to a close, RINDRA employed 95 persons,
all of them Malagasy nationals. The staff could be broken down as follows:
DEPARTMENT         SUPERVISORS         NONSUPERVISORY       TOTAL
AUDITING           35                   12                  47
MANAGEMENT         14
CONSULTING                             9                    23
DIRECTORATE
GENERAL            9                    6                   15
TOTAL          58                  27                   85



50
9.17 The objective sought under Credit 1155-MAG as regards strengthening
the activities of RINDRA is to see to it that the organization would
ultimately have complete autonomy as regards technical competence in the
fields of auditing and management of an auditing office, as well as regards
handling the internal training of its staff itself.
9.18 After the second consulting firm left, the Audit Department,
according to RINDRA, would no longer need technical assistance for internal
management or in its operational activities. The technical assistance
received from 1979 to 1988, provided by three different firms, was
considered sufficient.
9.19 At end-1988, the operational personnel in the auditing area numbered
35 persons, including 7 managers, 10 senior staff, 12 junior staff and 6
assistants. There are 17 persons 2/ who have worked at RINDRA since the
project began, all of whom are in a position to train new peraonnel.
9.20 The technical assistance planned for originally proved to be
insufficient. At the end of the project, RINDRA considered that an
additional year of technical assistance in the form of a specialist in
organization and data processing was still necessary.At end-1988, the
Management Consulting Department had a staff of 14:  3 managers, 1 senior
staff and 10 junior staff.
9.21 At the outset, and in particular during the first two fiscal years,
RINDRA undertook audits only upon instructions from the Supreme
Revolutionary Council (CSR), without regard to the client's solvency or
desiderata. Because of this procedure, the services rendered by RINDRA
were not only limited to a small number of enterprises, but losses of 2/3
of invoiced value were posted. This situation would ultimately change, and
since 1982 RINDRA has been working in the area of seeking markets (it is
currently active elsewhere in Africa) and has received better guarantees
with respect to new clients. Efforts have also been made to diversify the
ways in which RINDRA may intervene: hiring, training, accounting
organization, etc.
9.22 The figures below indicate the number of assignments broken down by
sector of activity:
1978 to
19S1
SECTOR OF ACTIVITY          1982   1983   1984   1986   1986   1987   1988
Financial institutions  --    --    --     2      3      3      2       6
Ministries and other
agencics             4      4      8       8      8      1S     17    21
Agricultural and agro-
industrial sector    7      8      1O    13    16        19     20     23
Agroalimentary and
lIvestock sector     8      11    13    13    15    17          19    21
2/Seven managers and 10 senior staff.



51
Trade and distributlon
sector                 1       3      6       4       6       8      6       9
Tourism and transporta-
tion sector            6       8      11      8       18      14      18     16
Industrial sector      26     30      84      a8      41      46     62      s9
TOTAL             62      64      79     87      102    121    126    154
9.23 RINDRA thus is involved in all sectors of the economy.  Even though
the number of assignments has increased, this has not been the case as
regards its turnover, especially since 1985. In turnover terms, the
activities of the Audit Department have evolved as follows:
(In millions of Malagasy francs)    (Average)
1980-81                       181           )
1981-82                       119           )                161
1982-83                       169           )
1983-84                       175
1984-85                       332           )
1985-86                       213           )                305
1986-87                       283
1987-88                       393
9.24 There are two distinct periods as regards turnover.  From 1981 to
1984, average turnover was FMG 161 million per year, a figure which rose to
FMG 305 million for the period from 1985 to 1988. In each period, turnover
at current prices was more or less stagnant, reflecting a stabilization if
not some slippage in activity levels.
9.25 The number of assignments of the Management Consulting Department,
classified by sector of activity, is shown in the following table:
SECTOR OF ACTIVITY               1984       1986      1986      1987       1988
Flnencial Institutions           --         I         1         4          1
Ministries and other agencies    2          4         1         3          2
Agriculture and egroindustry     1          1         --        2          2
Agroalimentary and iv-stock      2          1         1         --         --
Commerce and distribution        1          1         1         1          1
Tourism, transportation and othor
services                         1          --        7         6          6
Industry                         -          2         6         7          6
Construction and public works    --         2         --        --         --
SMEs                             --         --        2         6          4
TOTAL                        7         12        18         27        22



52
9.26 There was a slight decline in the number of assignments in 1988 after
growth from 1984 to 1987. In terms of turnover at current prices, the
activities of the Management Consulting Department have developed as
follows:
(In millions of Malagasy francs)
1984-85                               112
1985-86                               184
1986-87                               209
1987-88                               200
The activities of the Management Consulting Department have changed little
since 1986.
9.27 The apparent growth In productivity of labor, defined as the ratio of
turnover to the number of operational staff, has developed favorably for
both departments of RINDRA, as shown below (in millions of Malagasy
francs)t
Audit                     Management Consult-
Department                 ing Department
1984-85                   11                        11
1985-86                   6                          17
1986-87                   9                          8
1987-88                   11                         14
9.28 It is thus not true that the Management Consulting Department has
been less successful than the Audit Department, even though RINDRA has the
reputation of being more an "auditor" than a "management organizer and
advisor."
9.29 The intermediate operating balances corresponding to operations from
1986 to 1988 as well as 1981 (the reference year) are shown in the
following table (in millions of Malagasy francs and percentage terms):
CATEGORY               1981          1986          1987          1988
- Foe. and miscellaneous  11        459           533           622
- Final stock           --            --            37            63
- Initial stock         --            (23)          --            (37)
PROOUCTION4          161  100X      438  1OOX     670  1103     649  1603
- TSFE                  (14)          (89)          (63)          (94)
- Transportation and    (46)          (48)          (58)          (90)
moving
- UMscel lan*oue overhoad*  (22)     (103)          (98)          (166)



53
- Expenses chargeablo to
third parties              19             --              --             68
VALUE ADDED              98    61X     194   46%       361   62X       376   68X
- Personnol cost.          (94)          (193)           (239)          (312)
- Taxee and levies         (2)             (4)             (8)            (6)
GROSS OPERATING SURPLUS   12    7X       7    2%       104   18X       59    9X
- Financing costs          (15)          (121)           (448)          (962)
- Financial proceeds       --             --              11             --
CROSS OPERATING RESULT   (3)    --      (114)  (263)    (332)  (583)   (892)  (1373)
- SBS                       (1)           --               (1)            (1)
- Write-offt and          (263)          (671)           (691)          (692)
provisions
- Windfall profits        365            132              s9             23
- Exceptional losses       (90)           (61)            (81)           (22)
NET RESULT               18   11X       (714)  (164X)  (962)  (1673)  (1684)  (2393)
GROSS SELF-FINANCING      271  168X       (43)   (103)  (361)   (63X)  (972)  (1373)
MARGIN
9.30 In the latter years, RINDRA's operations were in the red, which is
explained by a relatively sizable increase in financing costs, and, except
in 1987, the rate of the gross operating surplus is low.
9.31 RINDRA's balance sheets for 1986 to 1988 as well as 1981 are
summarized below (in millions of Malagasy francs):
1981         1986          1987          1988
ASSETS
- Establishment costs            332           554           553          530
- Net fixed assets               35            203           195          165
- Operating assets               --            --            37           63
- Liquid assets                  97            378           339          365
- Cash balances                  29            239           235          258
TOTAL                      493           1364          1358          1383
LIABILITIES
- Capital                        50            50            50           50
- Amounts carried forward    --                (555)         (555)         (555)



54
- Results from preceding       (219)       (501)       (1218)       (2170)
year
- Results of current year    19            (714)       (952)        (1584)
- Provisions for losses and  18            18          18           18
expenses
- NET POSITION                (132)        (1702)      (2657)       (4241)
- MedLum- and long-term       61           1495        1968         2060
debt
- Short-term debt             292          628         812          1052
- Cash liabilities            272          953         1235         2512
TOTAL                    493         1374         1358         1383
9.32 The financial position of RINDRA is unsustainable.  The net position,
which was already precarious in 1981, deteriorated to a negative FMG 4
billion in 1988. This situation stems from the successive losses posted in
the preceding years, largely attributable to the amount of financing costs
incurred under the credit. At the end of the project, RINDRA finds itself
heavily indebted and, in contrast to what was anticipated at the project
appraisal stage, its financial positLon is more and more out of balance.
RINDRA Ls unable to repay the credit extended to it, and financial
restructuring Ls mandatory.
9.33 The cost of the technical assistance to RINDRA as at June 30, 1989
may be summarized as follows (Ln millLons of Malagasy francs):
HEADING                           Cross Value    Amortization    Not Value
- Original Firem                     19,517        619,517            0
- Fire A                          1,431,747      1,431,747            0
- Firm B                          1,452,296      1,253,048       199,237
- Local technical assistance         44,262         36,635        8,627
- Technical assistance from Firm A  33,690         11,230        22,460
TOTAL                         3,481,601      3,261,177      230,324
9.34 As at June 30, 1989, technical assistance costs totaled almost FMG
3.5 billlon, over 90 percent of which has been amortized. Judging from the
figures, RINDRA has obtained substantLal technical assistance. No other
accountancy firm with the same standing or competence has received as much.
9.35 The amount, date of signature and terms of the loans contracted by
RINDRA are indicated for each source of financing in the table which
follows (in thousands of Malagasy francs):



55
Treasury
advancos       IDA onlonding   IDA codicil
- Amount                           FMO 272,000,000  SDR 8,000,000   SDR 1,160,000
- Date of agroment                 1              1/26/82         7/18/86
- Repayent period                                 10 years        6 years
- Crace period                                    3 years         2 years
- Service charge                                  12 X per year   12 percent
- Penalty Interest 2
9.36 The Treasury advances were all contracted before the June 1981
signing of Credit 1155-MAG, which represents the bulk of RINDRA's borrowing
(the equivalent of slightly more than FMG 2 billion at the exchange rates
on the dates of the on-lending agreement and the codicil).
9.37 As of June 30, 1989, the status of RINDRA's long- and medium-term
debts was as follows:
Amount at more    Amount at less
Amount released   Equivalent (in   than one year (in than one yoar (in
FINANCING SOURCE as at 12/31/88    Ialagasy francs)  Ialagasy francs)  Mslagasy francs
- Treasury     FMG 272,000,000   --              --              272,000,000
- IDA onlonding
plus
- IDA codicil   SDR 4,160,000   3,699,106,410    1,982,208,226   1,616,899,194
The share of the loans at less than one year thus amounts to
FMG 1,888,898,184.
9.38 RINDRA must also pay accrued interest totaling FMG 3,091,099,545 as
at June 30, 1989. It also bears noting that the Malagasy franc equivalent
of the IDA loan has increased significantly owing to changes in the
exchange rate, which are thus also a factor in RINDRA's financial position.
9.39 It should also be recalled that it the appraisal report, the Bank
maintained that if it increased its business by reducing its fees, RINDRA
would be able to repay to the Government a loan of SDR 3 million at 12
percent interest in 10 years, with 3 years' grace, and to pay it reasonable
dividends as well. In the course of our review, no one was able to provide
us with any documentation that would justify such an assertion.
9.40 RINDRA's status as a socialist enterprises poses a number of
problems:
-    from the standpoint of clients, some of whom think there is a
link making RINDRA dependent on the Central Government;
-    from the standpoint of the staff, in that the company's status
prevents them from achieving partnership standing.
9.41 Moreover, RINDRA's staff currently includes no expert accountants.
Thus the enterprises will not be able to certify any accounts until such



56
time as the transitional provisions regarding access to the Order of Expert
Accountants have been finalized and effectively implemented.
9.42 A study of needs for professionally trained accounts was provided for
in the project's Credit Agreement. The World Bank recommended in its 1981
appraisal report that a study be carried out at the request of qualified
accountants so as to enable CFC better to plan the level of its activities.
The study, which was to cover a period of ten years, was to be completed by
December 31, 1983.
9.43 The study, which was entrusted to RINDRA, was to be coordinated
directly by the expatriate Director-General, but it ultimately was never
produced. However, the INSCAE, at the request of its Board of Directors,
has proposed to conduct a market survey to determine both the qualitative
and quantitative needs for accountants, with a view to making appropriate
adjustments in the class sizes and the training provided by the INSCAE's
teaching staff.
COMPONENT D: ENHANCING THE CAPABILITIES OF PRIVATE ACCOUNTING FIRMS
9.44 Despite the Bank's urging, vary few accounting firms have made use of
this financing possibility; this, moreover, explains the decision to
reallocate the remaining balance to other components of the project. The
capabilities of private accounting firms have tended instead to be enhanced
by means of more specific efforts The first such effort, by RAMAHO-
LIMIHASO, involved the installation of the computerized management and
personnel system of the BFV, and was regarded as quite advantageous by the
company, at least as regards the personnel management side; the firm now
considers itself to be in a position to provide this service to other
enterprises without assistance from foreign consultants. The second
effort, by FIVOARANA, dealt with the preparation of a computerized master
plan for the BWI. It, too, was quite beneficial to the firm, which can now
render the same consulting services without outside assistance.
9.45 Assessed from the standpoint of the experiences of these two firms,
the results of the first subcomponent of Component D "Assistance to Private
Firms" may be regarded as positive. However, one of the initial objectives
of the project, to provide local enterprises with suitable techniques for
improving their management systems, is far from having been achieved, as
enterprises have not come forward to take advantage of the facility open to
them because of their lack of information or insufficient borrowing
capacity.
9.46 The OMEGA project, which was quite ambitious at the outset,
ultimately led to the creation of a management consulting department within
RINtRA.   The activities of this subcomponent are discussed earlier. The
accountancy and auditing organization and training project did not really
get under way until four years after the initial request of June 1978. It
was a project which dealt not with conventional areas of activity
(planning, finance, agriculture, etc.) but with a profession which
heretofore has been accorded little priority and all aspects of which
needed to be addressed: legislation, organization, initial training and
continuing training, refresher courses). For Madagascar as for the World



57
Bank, this was thus a pilot project, which could explain the initial foot-
dragging.
10. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
RESULTS OBTAINED
10.01     The country now has a modern code of accounts on which the
broadest possible coneensus has been reached. Since 1982, representatives
of the accounting profession have taken an active part in developing this
code, and teachers and business groups have been involved as well. The
financial statements drawn up in accordance with the new provisions should
be able to meet the needs of the various users (enterprises, banks, Central
Government, etc.) for reliable, comprehensible, meaningful and comparable
data, and facilitate the preparation of sectoral, regional and national
statistics that are of value in the various stages of planning.
10.02     Efforts to disseminate the new code of accounts have been
initiated by the local accounting firms and the INSCAE; a number of
enterprises have already submitted their latest financial statements (for
1988) in accordance with the new code of accounts, the effective date of
which was postponed to January 1, 1990. At the request of national and
international financial institutions and of the management bodies of
enterprises, accounts are audited more and more frequently.
10.03     As regards the accounting profession, a specific proposal was
submitted to the authorities in May 1989 regarding:
-    expanding the Order of Expert Accountants and Authorized
Accountants, after finalizing the criteria for membership of
suitably qualified persons in the Order;
-    the structures to be set up for finalizing the course
requirements for the National Expert Accountant's Diploma
(DNEC).
10.04     As result of the project, all aspects of the accounting
profession have been discussed widely, and the need for regular
consultation between the public authorities and the accounting profession
is now regarded as a given.
10.05     CFC, which began operations in February 1983, provided complete
or partial training to almost 300 accountants (not including its evening
courses) before its activities were prematurely taken over by the INSCAE.
10.06     RINDRA has become a highly capable accounting firm with staff
trained in modern accountancy. It now has solid expertise in auditing (a
division of 35 staff), initial experience in management consulting (a
division of 14), a sound internal organization, and a reputation for
professionalism. At present, RINDRA is working in Africa and is
diversifying its activities to include hiring, training, and accounting
organization.



58
10.07     The two major private firms were able to take advantage of
external assistance which enhanced their qualifications in the area of
management consulting.
APPARENT WEAKNESSES
10.08     It is unfortunate that the belated publication of the annotated
guide to the accounting system and the lack of any national policy on
dissemination of the PCG 87 did not make it possible for the enterprises to
prepare themselves in time for introducing the NPC in 1989 as planned. The
requirement to introduce this new code of accounts is still not subject to
any sanctions, which should be remedied in the course of the review of tax
law. Requests for World Bank financing of the dissemination of the New
Code of Accounts, initially from the project Consultants and later from the
Malagasy authorities themselves, were never acted upon.
10.09     The sectoral codes of accounts, inter alia for banks, insurance,
public works, etc., have yet to be drawn up. The legislative framework has
yet to be revised, in particular as regards the obligations incumbent on
companies. Now new law with respect to auditing has been passed. The Order
has not yet defined its "standard proceedings," i.e., its professional and
ethical code.
10.10     While CFC's objective was to develop a financially viable
institution in a period of 6 years, following the change in option by the
Bank, tne credit was exhausted in 3 years. With the new INSCAE project,
inadequate training of the instructional staff remains a problem. Owing to
delays and outside factors (economic conditions, legislation, etc.), it is
beginning to become more difficult to place graduates.
10.11     RINDRA's status as a socialist enterprise is not conducive to
preventing staff turnover. Its financial structure is unsustainable,
specifically because of the terms on which RINDRA was on-lent funds from
the IDA credit; interest payments have added enormously to the firm's
financing costs. The earmarking of the credit to its various component
parts was probably not sufficiently detailed, which resulted in some
expenditures which might appear excessive: for example, $250,000 in
materials and vehicles were purchased and subsequently resold to RINDRA
staff.
10.12     The credit allocated was under-utilized. As a result, the
objective of overall strengthening was not achieved.
RECOMMENDATIONS
10.13     The Higher Accountancy Council should be set up as soon as
possible with a view to:
-    resolving individual problems in accordance with accounting
principles;
-    developing sectoral codes of accounts;
-    proposing new measures intended to adapt accounting standards to
changes in the economic climate in Madagascar;



59
-    cooperate in the drafting of laws and regulations which affect
the accounting requirements of enterprises;
-    company law;
_    criminal law;
-    tax law, etc.;
-    addressing the queries of persons working with the accounting
system.
10.14     An effort should be made to speed the publication of legal and
regulatory provisions governing the accounting profession. An appraisal
should be conducted of training in the PCG 87 and its dissemination so as
to determine the steps to be taken.
10.15     The recommendations regarding CFC effectively pertain to the
general environment, namely:
-    Establishment of the provisions on the accounting profession and
determination of the course of study for expert accountants so
as to break these roadblocks;
-    Definition by the Central Government.of an INSCAE strategy so as
to readjust the targets for financial viability in the medium
term.
10.16     The financial situation of RINDRA must be restructured.  This
process, which could entail the capitalization of part or all of its loans
by the Centrae  Government, would enable RINDRA to develop positive working
capital and to generate a sufficient gross self-financing margin. In order
to bolster the activities of the management consulting division, a second
technical assistance contract may be desirable. The financing of this
contract should be assessed in the light of RINDRA's capacity to repay.
10.17     The legal status of RINDRA should be changed so that it can be
legally autonomous. The change of status would also enable personnel to
become partners in the firm. This would reduce staff turnover. The
objectives of strengthening private auditing firms were not funded by the
credit. They can only be incorporated into the ongoing development of the
profession.



60
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
................................................. -Loan/Credit
Year of
Title                     Purpose                      Approval                Status
...........  .......................................................................................   ..................________
Credit 1661 MAG          Upgrade    level    of          April 16,                Planned
with Accounting          e x p e r t i s e    o f        1986                     Closure
and  Management          accountants, auditors                                    is   Dec.
T r a i n i n g          and     managers       to                                31, 1992
Project                  improve      management
and financial control
of enterprises and to
improve   procurement
procedures (A
continuation of 1155
MAG)
..---......................... ....---.....----........-.......-..-....----......--------......-....--.......-----................-



61
2. Proiect Timetable
ITEM                   Date           Date          Date
Planned       Revised       Actual
- Identification                                       1978-1979
* Preparatio.                                          Aug-Sept'79
- Appraisal                                            June 1980
- Loan Negotiations                                    April 1981
B Board Approval                                       Feb. 6 1981
* Loan Signature                                       Junell '81
- Loan Effectiveness      Oct. 12,'81   Jan. 12,'82   May 6,1982
Apr. 12,'82
- Loan Closing           March 31,'88   Sept.30,'88   Dec.31,1989
Dec. 31,'88
June 30,'89
Loan Completion'
' Component B was expanded by addition of a graduate business
school (INSCAE) and is financed under 1661 MAC which has a planned
closing date of December 1992.



62
2.     Project Timetable (r;ontinued)
MISSION DATA
Sent         Month No. of No. of  Staff   Date of
Item                by          Year   Weeks Persons weeks   Report
----------------------------------------------------------------__------
Identification       EAPEG              1978-79 1/
Preparation          EAPEG                9/79
Appraisal            EAPEG                6/80        4        3      12      5/11/81
Supervision I-A   EAPED 2/               11/81        2        2       4   11/25/81
Supervision I-B   EAPEG                   2/82        4        1       4     4/19/82
Supervision II-A  EAPED                  11/82        3        2       6   12/17/82
Supervision II-B  EAPEG                  12/82        3        1       3      1/31/83
Supervision III-A EAPED                   4/83        3        2       6     6/07/83
Supervision III-B EAPEG  3/               5/83        2        2       4      6/23/83
Supervision IV       EAPED/EAPEG         11/83        2        2       4      2/15/84
Supervision V        EAPED/EAPEG          4/84        3        2       6      6/12/84
Supervision VI       EAPED               10/85        3        2       6   12/17/85
Supervision VII    EAPED                  6/86        2        4       8     8/14/86
Supervision VIII  AF3PH                  10/87        2        2       4   10/25/87
Supervision IX       AF3PH                2/88        2        1       2      2/11/88
Supervision X        AF3PH                1/89        3        1       3     3/20/89
1/ The initial Identification and preparation was carried by soveral divisions. The work was
done mostly as part of the on-going work of those divisions and apart from occasional Back-
to-Office reports, no formal reports wero prepared until the appraisal by EAPEG.
2/ Project was prepared by EAPEC but the Accounting Training Center fell under the
supervision responsibility of EA F "Is the remaining components wore to be suporvised by
EAPEG. This resulted in two sopa; . orvision misslons until the project was put solely
under EAPED.
3/ This was the last independent supervision mission by EAPEO. The project came under full
control of EAPED though EAPEG did assist on the next two supervision missions. After
reorganization, the project foll undor the responsibility of AF3PH.



63
3. Credit disbursements
_________________________
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
CREDIT                        IN 000 US $
FISCAL YEAR 1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988   1989  1990
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--
ACTUAL        680 1,340 1,364 2,076 2,572  1,297   572   352    39
CUMULATIVE         2,025 3,389 5,456 8,037  9,334  9,906 10,258 10,297
PER APPRAIS 1,200 2,000 2,300 2,200 2,000  1,500   300
CUMULATIVE 1,200 3,200 5,500 7,700 9,700 11,200 11,500
GOVERNMENT BUDGET (MFMG)
CONTRIBUTIONS TO CFC/INSCAE
1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988   1989
ACTUAL         79   70   34  172  172   170   100    50
CUMULATIVE          149  183  355  527   697   797   847



64
4. Project Implementation
IMPLEMENTATION
Component A, Accounting Legislation
Planned        Actual
Drafting of                    Oct. 1981
relevant legislation
Submission of legislation       April 1982
Enactment of legislation        July 31, 1982
Government prepares                             Dec. 1982
short list of con-
sulting firms;
Efforts by local                                Jan.-July 1983
accountants to be
included in short
list rejected by the
Bank;
Consulting firm                                 Nov. 1983
selected;
Contract signed;                                Aug. 1984
Contractor submits                              June 1985
drafts for legisla-
tion;
Contractors final                               Jan. 1986
report;
New accountancy law                             Law of Sept.17,1987
Pub.lished. Law will
be in effect starting
1989. Not yet includ-
ed in the law are
provisions regula-
ting the accountancy
profession.



65
Component B: Centre de Formation en Comptabllite
planned           actual
Establishment of the CFC                           December 14, 1981
through Decree No. 81290
Appointment of first Director        Sept. 1, 1981    April 1982
Opening of the Center                March 1, 1981    October 1982
First class of students started    May 1, 1982         February 1983
Start of evening classes             May 1, 1983       March 1983
First class graduates                May 1, 1985       September 1987
Component C: RINDRA
planned              actual
Appointment of foreign          September 1, 1981   April 1982
Director General
Foreign Director replaced                            March 1984
Consultants:
Mahen Noiseux and Co.                               1982-1985
Eurosept                                            1985-1988



66
5. Project Cost and Financing
-----------------------------
Project Financing
_________________
M. U. S. $
local Dis-      Foreign         Total
bursements   Disrbursements
IDA credit:
a. legisaltion                       2.4            0.3            2,7
b. CFC                                              3.6            3.6
c. RINDRA                                           3.7            3.7
d. Local consulting firms                           1.5            1.5
2.4            9.1           11.5
Government Budget:
legislative review                   0.2                           0.2
CFC                                  1.4                           1.4
1.6                           1.6
Internally Generated Funds:
RINDRA                               0.8                           0.8
Local consulting firms               0.3                           0.3
1..                           1.1
Total project                        5.1            9.1           14.2
Reallocatiom
April 1986
After
Per Credit    April 1986      Disbursement
Disbursements Categories   Agreement        Reallocation    to 3/31/80    Balance
DTS (000)      DTS (000)      DTS (000)       DTS (000
1 Legislation review                  250             200            196           4
2 Consultants for CFC                1,630          3,440          3,462          (22)
3 National Audit Co. RINDRA          2,200          4,150          4,148           2
4 Malagasy management                 820             395            445          (50)
5 Consulting firms &                  660             265            282          (17)
CFC local staff                                                                0
6 Goods for CFC                       900             900            827          73
7 Unallocated                        2,940             50              0          50
TOTAL                              9,400          9,400          9,360          40



67
6. Project Results
INSCAE
Number of Students Enrolled
in Accountancy Degree Programs
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987      1988       1989
Semester              I   II    I    II    I   II   I   II    I   II   I    II    I   II
.______________________________________________________________________
1st year students   100   86  100   83  100   96   86   70  109   95   78   56   60
2nd year students                79   58   97   93  100   97   66   67   75   65   56
3rd year students                           56   56   87   81  101   85   59   56   62
4th year students                                     20   18   20   20   20   20   20
----__--------__---------------------------------__--------------------
totals               100   86  179  141  253  245  293  266  296  267  232  197  198
graduates 3yr. program                           53         74        75         56
graduates 4yr. program                                      18         19        19
Evening program-1)        234        220        237        406       364        392        400
year                1982 1983       1984       1985       1986
planned
enrollment-2)        100  164        214        260        300
1) average per year
2) per appraisal for degree program
Teaching Staff
INSCAB/CFC
1933 - 1989
1983         1984         1985       1986        1987      1988      1989
Foreign                2             4            5          4          3         2          61
Malgasy                2             6            7          7         13         9         10
4           10           12         11          16        11        16
Adjunct                7             3            6         12         17        11         '3
TOTAL                 11            13           18         23         33        22         39
1.
increase due to start cf new MBA program.



68
RINDRA
Auditing Division
Auditing Engagements by Sector
1978 - 1988
1978
SECTOR                   &    1982: 1983  1984  1985  1986 1987  1988
1981                            I            _
- Financial Institutions       -     -      -      2      3     3    ,      5
- Ministries and Governmen
Agencies                      4     4      6     8      8    15   17    21
- Agriculture and
Agroindustry                  7     8    10    13    16    19   20    23
- Food and Animal Husbandr    8    11    13    13    15    17   19    21
- Commerce                      1     3      5     4      6     8    5      9
- Tourism and Transport         6     8    11      9    13    14   13    16
- Industry                     26    30    34    38    41    45   52    59
TOTAL                   52    64    79    87   102   121  128   154
RINDRA STAFF
June 30, 1989
DEPARTMENT            PROFESSIONAL       OTHER             TOTAL
Audit                         35              12               47
Consulting                    14               9               23
Administration                 9               6               15
TOTAL                      58              27               85



69
RINDRA
Management Consulting
Staff 1984 - '88
GRADE           1984       1985       1986        1987       1988
- Manager          -          -          3           3          3
- Senior           -           -         2           6          1
- Junior          10         .10         6          18        10
TOTAL           10         10         11          27        14
3 Managers, 1 Senior, and 4 Juniors have received training abroad
RINDRA
Consulting Division
Consulting Engagements
1984 - 1988
SECTOR                         1984     1985    1986    1987    1988
- Financial Institutions          -         1        1       4        1
- Ministries and Government
Agencies                         2        4        1       3        2
- Agriculture and
Agroindustry                     1        1       -        2        2
- Food and Animal Husbandry        2        1        1      _        _
- Commerce                         1        1        1       1        1
- Tourism and Transport            I       _         7       5        6
- Industry                                  2        5       7        6
- Construction and Public
Works                                     2       _       _        _
- Small Business                  _        -         2       5        4
TOTAL                       7        12      18       27      22



70
RINDRA
Technical Auditing Assistance
Received (in hours)
PERMANENT       SHORT TERM
FIRM              PERIOD              CONSULTANT      CONSULTANCIES
MNE             1982 - 1985             5.912 H          3.947 H
EUROSEPT        1985 - 1988             3.216 H         6.634 H
RINDRA
Professional Audit Staf,!
1981 - 1989
GRADE       1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988
- Manager       2    2    2    4    4    4    4    7
- Senior        4    7    7    7    7    6   11   10
- Junior       20   16   14   12   12    9   12   12
- Assistant    -    -    -    9    8   15    6    6
TOTAL        26   25   23   32   31   34   33   35
RINDRA
Auditing Staff
trained overseas
GRADE          1983    1984    1985    1986        1987   1988      TOTAL
- Manager          1        4        1       2         4       3        15
- Senior           4        3        5       1         3       6        22
- Junior           -        -        2       1         -       -         3
TOTAL           5        7       8        4         7               40



71
RINDRA
Revenues and -Orerating
Expenses
M. FMG
1981   1986   1987   1988
Revenues                      161    435    570    649
operating expenses           (149)  (428)  (466)  (590)
Operating Margin               12      7    104      59
Interest                      (15)  (121)  (448)  (952)
Amortisation
and Depreciation *)          (253)  (671)  (591)  (692)
*)Primarfly the amortization over five years of capitalized
technical assistance costs.



72
7. Status of Covenants
COVENANTS
Credit Agreement Section
3.01  a - due diligence and efficiency. ..          complied with
b   subsidiary loan agreement with RINDRA
3.02  a,b,c - procedures and conditions for         complied with
projects under component D
3.03      selection of oualified contractors        complied with
for component B and C
3.04      insurance of goods                        complied with
3.05  a - adequate records for CFC and RINDRA       complied with
b - project completion report                 complied with
3.06      premises for CFC                          complied with
3.07  a - review of existing accounting              complied with
standards and practices
b - enactments of legislation with            about 80%
reference to component A                  complied with;
still missing final
enactment of rules
governing the
accountancy
profession.
4.02      adequate records and audits                complied with
4.03  a - efficient administration                   complied with
b - maintenance                               complied with
4.04      survey of demand for accountants           not complied
and auditors in Madagascar by                 with;
Dec. 1983                                  survey never
completed;
now survey will be
done by INSCAE



