Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3151-MAG
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 11, 1981
Energy and Water Supply Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =      FMG 200
FMG 1.00    =      US$0.005
ABBREVTATIONS
BEFEC    Bureau d'Etudes Financieres et de Controle Comptable
CFC      Centre de Formation en Comptabilite
CSR      Supreme Council of the Revolution
CUR      University Regional Center (University of Madagascar)
EPIC     Industrial and Commercial Public Establishment
FF       French Franc
FMG      Malagasy Franc
ILO      International Labor Organization
INPF     Institut National de Promotion-Formation
MEC      Ministry of Economy and Commerce
MHE      Ministry of Higher Education
PMM      Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.
PNA      Popular National Assembly
RINDRA   Malagasy Audit Organization
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. J. Shaukat, J. Boutan, and R. J. Bourque
(consultant), who visited Madagascar in May and June 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGAS CAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT IN MADAGASCAR
Background  ...........................................                       1
Need for Accounting, Audit and Management Consulting
Services  ..........................................                      3
Sector Constraints .....................                                      4
II.    THE PROJECT
Project Objectives .....................                                      4
Project Description  and Scope  ............... .                             4
Project Cost Estimates               ......................                   8
Basis for Cost Estimates              ......................                  9
Financing Plan ......................                                         9
Implementation  Schedule    ..............................                   10
Procurement ..........................................                       10
Disbursement .........................................                       11
Project Alternatives             .................................           11
Alternative Locations for Accounting Training  Center .                      12
Alternative for Number of Classes and Students    . .                        12
Foreign Training vs. Local Training  ......... .........                     13
Monitoring  ..........................................                       13
III.    IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
General ...........................................                          14
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific  Research  .                     14
Ministry of Economy and Commerce .......... ...........                      14
RINDRA-s:
Order of Incorporation  .........             ...................        14
Management ........................................                      15
Consultant ........................................                      15
Operations  ........................................                     16
Accounting and Auditing ...........................                      16
IV.    FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Accounting Training  Center  ............. .............                     16
Past Operations and Financial Position  of RINDRA    ....                    17
Level of RINDRA's Fees    ..............................                     18
Future Financial Position  of RINDRA  ......... ........                     18
Local Consulting  Firms    ..............................                    20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Page No.
V.   JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Justification.                                               21
Benefits   .............................................     21
Risks   ................................................     22
VI.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....      ........   22
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Educational Facilities
2.   Existing Company and Accounting Legislation
3.   Major Accounting and Management Services Firms
4.   Charter of Socialist Enterprises - 1978
5.   Project Description
6.   Outline of Proposed Legislative Measures
7.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
8.   ?roject Monitoring
9.   RINDRA - Balance Sheets 1980-1989
10.   RINDRA - Income Statement 1980-1989
11.   RINDRA - Projected Funds Flow Statement 1981-1989
12.   RINDRA - Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Statements
13.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP - Madagascar (IBRD 14160)



MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT IN MADAGASCAR
Background
1.01      The Democratic Republic of Madagascar, one of the thirty poorest
countries in the world, had a per capita GNP of US$240 in 1977. Although the
country has some favorable conditions for economic development, such as a
wide range of natural resources, a pleasant climate, and a population that is
receptive to innovation, economic growth has been sluggish and the balance of
payments is adverse. Real GNP has increased by barely 3 percent since 1970.
The goal of the Government is to promote rapid economic development to achieve
a higher growth rate and to establish a just and equitable social order.
Government action to further this plan includes restructuring and nationaliza-
tion of companies in order to make them more responsive to national neecs. In
the course of restructuring these enterprises Madagascar felt the need for more
accurate and informative financial reporting. The Government had requested
Bank assistance and has agreed to implement a project to train accountants and
auditors, to upgrade the expertise of local financial management consultants,
and to review legislation related to auditing and financial reporting require-
ments.
1.02      In 1960, when the country gained its independence from France, there
was little industrial development, except for some foodstuff processing and
minerals, so the Government has since then encouraged investment in commerce
and industry. As a result the industrial sector share of value added increased
from 5% of GNP in 1960 to about 17X of GNP in 1977 1/. The majority of the
largest enterprises were French-owned at the time of independence while a high
proportion of smaller businesses were owned by South Asians.
1.03      Immediately after independence, management positions in Malagasy
enterprises continued to be staffed mainly by French nationals, but in 1972 a
change in Government resulted in major policy changes and many French managers
and technicians started to leave the country. Most of those who had remained
left-in 1975, following the nationalization of major foreign-owned enterprises,
and many enterprises thereby lost their senior managers and accountants. The
accounting departments of those enterprises continued to be staffed by well-
trained junior and middle level Malagasies, but the senior and top managerial
accounting positions were filled, in most cases, by civil servants without
experience of commercial accounting, or by inadequately qualified accountants
from the private sector.
1.04      Since the early 1970s, the accounting profession as a whole, has
stagnated. The "Ordre des Experts Comptables et des Comptables Agrde's'
1/   Madagascar:  Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects, World
Bank, October 25, 1979.



- 2 -
(Order of Accountants) was created in October, 1962, but has only 36 members
with no admissions since 1971. Apart from this group, there are only 40 other
accountants in Madagascar who have overseas accounting qualifications, the
majority being employed in commercial organizations. Out of the 36 members
of the Order of Accountants, six are "Experts Comptables" 1/ and thirty are
"Comptables Agrees" 2/. Despite a demand for accountancy training, no
accountant of either category has qualified in Madagascar since 1971,
as the educational and training facilities (Annex 1) for the high academic
achievement required are not available in Madagascar. Degrees in accounting
are not offered at the University of Madagascar or by any other training
school. The only accounting courses offered are at elementary level as a part
of the economics or management degree courses.
1.05      Development of the accounting profession has not progressed in
Madagascar because existing legislation governing audit and financial reporting
is outdated (Annex 2), and does not specify accounting and auditing standards
to be met by commercial enterprises and auditors. At present, the only
effective Government requirement for financial statements comes from the
Income Tax Department, which demands accounts in support of tax returns from
companies with annual sales of more than FMG 30 million (above US$150,000).
The 1867 law relating to limited liability companies (Societes Anonymes) only
requires that financial statements be submitted to shareholders after they are
reviewed by a "Commissaire aux Comptes" whose qualifications are not specified.
Neither the content of the financial statements, nor the extent to which the
investigation should be carried out by the Commissaire aux Comptes is specified
by law, and so the review of companies' accounts is often superficial.  The
1925 law relating to limited liability partnerships (Societes 'a Responsibilite
Limitee) is similarly undemanding.
1.06      Consultancy services in Madagascar relating to financial systems and
procedures (Annex 3) lack an adequate number of professionals with accounting
and auditing skills. Most of these organizations are linked with or rely, to
varying degrees, on the assistance of expatriate personnel or foreign manage-
ment consulting firms, whose availability is severely restricted by exchange
control constraints. Although the quality of these services is generally
satisfactory, their dependence on outside assistance indicates the need for
technical assistance in the training of local accounting consultants.
1/   An Expert Comptable is required to have studied accounting and auditing
for four years, to have had two years of accounting experience, and to
have passed an examination equivalent to the French Expert-Accountant
examination, the highest accountancy qualification in France. Experts
Comptables, under Madagascar's 1962 Ordinance, are authorized to verify,
prepare and analyze accounts of enterprises and to act as legal arbitra-
tors in related matters.
2/   A Comptable Agree is required to have studied accounting and auditing
for two years and to have had two years of practical accounting experience.
Comptables Agrees have the same responsibilities as Experts Comptables,
except that they are not statutorily authorized to analyze accounting
data or serve as arbitrators.



- 3 -
1.07      In recent years the Government has taken measures that will ensure
greater Government control over major commercial enterprises and has made an
effort to improve the standard of accounting and auditing. To these ends, a
Charter of Socialist Enterprises (the Charter) (Annex 4) was promulgated in
May 1978 and a national audit company, RINDRA, was established in April 1979.
The Charter covers all types of public enterprises in which the state owns
directly or indirectly 51 percent or more of the equity capital. Due to
administrative difficulties, only 19 enterprises were so controlled by April
1980, but it is estimated that perhaps 150 enterprises would eventually be
regulated by the Charter.
1.08      According to the Charter, each economic sector will have its own
"Orientation Council" which will oversee all the Socialist Enterprises in that
sector. Auditors will be appointed by the Council and will be required to
submit an annual report. The duties assigned to auditors are broad in scope.
'hey are not only required to report on the fairness, accuracy and correctness
of accounts, but also to report on management-s performance and on the enter-
prise's operational aspects, such as whether or not the enterprise has met
objectives set by the Orientation Council. The stipulations of the Charter,
particularly those relating to auditing and reporting, will thus necessitate
a rapid improvement in quality as well as in the volume of accounting informa-
tion required of accountants and auditors.
1.09      RINDRA provides audit services principally to those enterprises
owned or controlled by the Government, and particularly, to those enterprises
which come under the domain of the Charter. It is the first audit organization
of its kind in Madagascar as the accounting requirements of the French, from
whom the Madagascar system was inherited, did not include detailed audit.
Need for Accounting, Audit and Management Consulting Services
1.10      Preparation by commercial enterprises of accurate, timely and com-
prehensive accounts is essential for efficient planning and for management and
financial control. Furthermore, reliable financial reports and statements are
essential for managers, investors, creditors and government agencies. Audit
of these accounts and certification of statements by independent auditors is
necessary to determine their reliability. Financial control is important in
the socialist environment of Madagascar where major commercial enterprises are
government-controlled and where operations, planning and control functions are
to be performed on an impersonal and centralized basis. The Government
recognizes the importance of financial control (para. 2.01) and has clearly
expressed in the Charter its intention to improve the quality and reliability
of financial reporting. However, at present, there are insufficient
accountants who can prepare such accounts or audit them satisfactorily. Once
the Charter is fully applied and audit of enterprises both in public and
private sectors becomes a statutory requirement, all the 150 government-
controlled enterprises (para. 1.07) and about 350 private sector enterprises
incorporated under the company and partnership laws of 1867 and 1925 (Annex
2), whose sales exceed FMG 30 million per year (para. 1.05), will require to
have their accounts audited. Consequently, the number of companies needing
audit services will total about 500, whereas at present only 45 to 50 could be
served by the existing auditors with acceptable levels of competence.



- 4 -
1.11      Similarly, in the field of management consulting related to financial
systems and procedures, the organizations which provide these services have
limited capacity and generally provide these services with the assistance
of foreign experts (para. 1.06). The proposed legal requirement that the
commercial entities in the public and private sector (para. 2.03) have their
accounts audited will correspondingly increase the demand for management
services. Enterprises with inadequate financial systems and procedures will
require consultancy and training assistance to achieve adequate standards of
accounting and management.
1.12      The proposed project has been designed to help redress the shortages
of skilled accountants, auditors and specialists in financial systems and
procedures that persist due to the lack of adequate teaching and training
facilities for professionally-qualified persons (para 1.04), and to provide
the legal base requiring commercial enterprises to prepare accounts and
financial reports in accordance with prescribed accounting and auditing
standards.
Sector Constraints
1.13      The principal constraints in the education and training of senior-
level accountants and auditors to be addressed by the proposed project, are
the lack of qualified teachers and of textbooks, both resulting from a shortage
of foreign exchange. Intermediate or advanced level textbooks on accountancy
and related subjects are not produced locally and their import is limited.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
2.01      In mid-1978 the Government requested IDA assistance in developing
the commercial accounting and auditing sector in Madagascar, and the proposed
project was appraised in June 1980. The primary objective of the project is
to develop suitable legislation for the sector and upgrade the current level
of expertise of accountants and auditors so as to help develop efficient
management, planning, and financial control of Malagasy commercial enter-
prises. The proposed project also provides for the development and
strengthening of related educational, training and professional institutions
through appropriate legislation and training programs.
Project Description and Scope
2.02      The proposed project consists of the following components (a detailed
description is provided in Annex 5):
(a)  The improvement of accounting, audit and related
institutions and the strengthening of the profession
through the development of proposals for legislation
which would help establish professional and ethical
standards and would require companies to prepare
audited accounts in accordance with specified standards
(para. 2.03);



(b) Setting up and staffing a pilot accounting training
center in Antananarivo to be called Centre de Formation
en Comptabilite (CFC) and providing the books, course
materials, supplies, services and equipment required for
operation of the center for six years (para. 2.04);
(c)  Training and supervisory services to assist the national
audit organization, RINDRA (para. 2.05); and
(d)  Training and technical assistance to Malagasy management
consulting firms to upgrade their expertise in financial
systems and procedures (para. 2.06).
2.03      Proposals for new legislation would require (a) commercial enter-
prises, particularly those in the public sector, and those in the private
sector with diverse shareholders, to keep proper books of account and prepare
and publish annual financial statements within a specified period in accordance
with specified standards of minimum disclosure and in conformity with a
national accounting classification code; (b) financial statements to be
audited by qualified independent auditors who would certify whether they give
a true and fair presentation of the state of affairs of the enterprise on
a consistent basis; (c) persons authorized to act as auditors to have speci-
fied minimum qualifications; and (d) professional auditors and accountants, as
a group or society, to promulgate, under the authority to be provided by the
Government, accounting and auditing standards, keep them under review, and
issue recommendations to revise them, as well as to investigate departures
from those standards by their individual members. The audit requirement would
be enforced gradually, starting with the largest enterprises in the public
sector. The legislative measures are essential to the project. Firstly, they
would help meet the overall objective of providing timely, informative and
reliable financial reports for effective management control and planning.
Secondly, they would provide incentives for accountants and auditors to
acquire expertise by creating the demand for the level of competence needed to
produce, analyze, interpret and verify financial reports of legally prescribed
professional standard. An outline of legislative measures needed is in Annex
6 and the project includes twenty man-months of consulting services to help
the Government draft suitable legislation to give effect to these measures,
which would be enacted after consultation with the Association (para. 2.10).
The Government has agreed that it would take all steps necessary to ensure
prompt enactment of legislation in accordance with an agreed schedule (para.
2.10).
2.04      Educational facilities (Annex 5) would provide classroom instruction
for potential professional level accountants and teachers at an estimated cost



of some US$2,000 (equivalent) per student year 1/. A full-time five-year
accountancy education program would be provided for students with appropriate
high school (or equivalent) qualifications in day time classes. Similar
courses would be provided for working accountants in evening classes and by
correspondence. For evening classes, CFC would exempt students from those
courses in which their knowledge was judged to be sufficient. CFC as a pilot
institution would start with enrollment well below both the level of demand
for its courses and the level adequate to meet the need for trained accountants.
To help plan for its future level of activities, the Government would carry out
a survey of projected future demand for trained accountants in the country
(para. 6.01). The demand would be materially affected when the standards for
accounting and auditing, and for qualification of auditors, are established
through the proposed legislation (para. 2.03), the survey would therefore be
made by December 31, 1983 for a ten-year period. The Government has agreed to
carry out such a survey (para 6.01). The level of student attendance is
expected to be substantially increased after the demand survey has been
completed in 1983, and consequently the cost per student-year would decrease
when the student enrollment is enlarged. Demand by high school graduates for
courses in accounting subjects is considerable as is evidenced by the enroll-
ment of up to 900 in the existing first year university classes. The appraisal
mission discussed with officials of the Order of Accountants an outline of
the syllabus (Annex 5-para 5.10) for the five-year courses proposed to be
conducted at CFC. This outline would form the basis for CFC to develop
detailed syllabi in consultation with the members of the Malagasy accounting
profession and commercial organizations, and to select course materials and
suitable textbooks. Qualified, internationally recruited staff would be
employed for a total of about 279 man-months to organize CFC and conduct
classes with the help of local training assistants who would be trained as
teachers. The Government has agreed to appoint a Management Committee which
will establish policies to be followed by CFC in its operation, management
and planning. The Management Committee will comprise representatives of the
relevant Government departments, accounting profession and the business
community. The Committee will also help CFC ensure that its activities meet
the requirements of Madagascar-s accounting and audit profession and commer-
cial enterprises (para 6.01).
2.05      An efficient and creditable audit organization needs to provide
considerable on-the-job training to its staff, in addition to theoretical
instruction. Realizing this necessity, particularly in the context of the
situation in Madagascar (para. 1.10), the Government, with the help of an
international firm of accounting consultants, has been providing training
1/   During the four year period FY1983-86 (when CFC would not have full
enrollment and much of the initial work of repairing, equipping and
furnishing CFC, establishing syllabi, survey of demand for accountants
and their training requirements would be carried out) the average cost
per student-year in December 1980 constant prices is estimated at $4,900.
In FY1987, after CFC has achieved its full planned level of daytime
student attendance for all of its courses, the cost is estimated at
$3,700 per student-year, decreasing to $2,000 in 1990 when CFC would be
entirely staffed by Malagasy teachers.



- 7 -
to RINDRA's audit staff, totalling about 30, since October 1978.  Considerable
progress has been achieved by RINDRA (a) in impressing upon managements of
major commercial enterprises the need for and importance of proper accounting
and impartial independent audit for their organizations; (b) in instituting
selection and recruitment procedures for employment of RINDRA-s audit staff;
(c) in training the staff in generally accepted accounting, auditing and
related professional standards, and application of those standards in practice;
and (d) in instituting basic time recording and audit planning procedures in
RINDRA. RINDRA-s ongoing efforts to develop into a viable audit organization
would be supported and continued under the project.  The project therefore
includes a five-year program for on-the-job training of RINDRA staff with the
help of an estimated 156 man-months of accounting consultants, to be appointed
in 1981. The program for on-the-job training would include various aspects of
professional accounting and external audit services to clients such as review
of internal audit procedures and internal control, detailed examination of
documents and records, special investigations, taxation, preparation and
certification of accounts statements, and report writing. To establish and
implement the internal procedures for RINDRA, the program would include staff
recruitment and training, business promotion and client relations, as well as
planning, organizing, staffing, supervising, controlling and carrying out of
audit and other professional assignments, negotiation of fees with clients,
and billing and collection of fees.
2.06      Practical training, with the assistance of foreign consultants, in
accounting systems and procedures would help local consultants to provide
technical services to local commercial enterprises who need to improve their
accounts and management reporting for better control and planning. Training
in this field would include: (a) review of the accounting procedures followed
by a client enterprise, relating to functions such as budgeting, purchases,
sales, payroll, payments, credit and collections, inventory and stock control,
construction, manufacturing, and operational and internal management reporting;
(b) assessment of adequacy of those procedures for establishing internal
control and for collection of operational and financial data; and (c) design
and implementation of suitable procedures where they are inadequate. These
specialized services are important to help achieve the project's objectives
and the related assistance is included in the project to enable local consult-
ing firms who are mostly in the private sector but include some public sector
organizations to train their staff in this field.  Assistance under the
project would be provided for proposals approved by the Association. The
Government would send such proposals to the Association, together with the
justification and particulars in respect of the qualifications and experience
of directors and staff of the local firm which would implement it, and the
foreign consultants and experts providing the assistance with details of staff
experience, timetable, fees and services to be rendered. The Ministry of
Economy and Commerce will supervise and monitor the performance of local firms
and their consultants. The project also includes a study to review existing
management consulting services and organizations in the country, demand for
such services and recommendations for coordination of activities of the
existing organizations in this field and development of a suitable public
organization in the future.



-8-
Project Cost Estimates
2.07      The total cost of the project is estimated at FMG 2.8 billion
(US$14.2 million), including foreign exchange of FMG 1.8 billion (US$9.1
million). The project cost estimates relate to the four components of the
project: (a) the review of existing legislation and drafting of new legisla-
tion; (b) CFC; (c) the training and supervisory services for RINDRA; and (d)
the assistance to local enterprises and consulting organizations for services
in financial systems and procedures and a study for providing management
services in the future. The estimates are as follows:
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(FMG 200 = US$1)
% of
FMG Millions          US$ Millions          Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
(a) Review of Existing
Legislation and Draft
New Legislation              20      60       80     0.1    0.3      0.4       4
(b) CFC
Contract Staff 1/
Salaries, Travel
and Housing              60      320     380      0.3    1.6      1.9      21
Regular Staff Salaries
and Benefits 2/         280       -       280     1.4      -      1.4      15
Furniture and
Equipment                20       -        20     0.1      -      0.1       1
Textbooks and
Supplies                 -       120      120      -      0.6     0.6       7
Building Rent,
Repairs and
Maintenance               60      -        60     0.3      -      0.3       3
Other Expenses            40       -        40     0.2      -      0.2       2
Total Training Center 460       440      900     2.3    2.2      4.5      49
(c) Assistance
to RINDRA for
Consulting and Management
Services, Books and
Publications             60      560      620     0.3    2.8      3.1      34
(d) Technical Assistance
for Financial Systems
and Procedures               40     200      240     0.2    1.0      1.2      13
Total Base Cost        580   1,260   1,840       2.9    6.3      9.2    100
Contingencies - Physical 3/    60       120      180      0.3    0.6      0.9
- Price          380     440      820      1.9    2.2      4.1
Total Project Cost
including
contingencies           1,020   1,820   2,840       5.1    9.1    14.2
1/   Contract staff comprises qualified teaching and managing staff recruited
internationally for specific periods.
2/   Regular staff comprises teaching assistants and other local staff most of
whom would be permanently employed.
3/   Physical contingencies include any unforeseen requirement for additional
teachers and consulting services.



-9-
Basis for Cost Estimates
2.08      The project cost estimates are based on the cost of similar services
in other countries, but allow for conditions in Madagascar, where man-month
costs charged by consultants are higher than average for similar consultants
in the East Africa Region due to difficult working conditions in Madagascar.
Costs are expressed in December 1980 prices. Customs duties and sales taxes
are not included since these are expected to represent an insignificant amount
of the cost of goods and services included in the project. Physical
contingencies are calculated at a rate of 10 percent of basic cost for all
project components. Price contingencies have been calculated at the following
annual escalation rates:
Percent (%)
1981   1982   1983-1986
Local Products and Services                   12      12         12
Foreign Products and Services                  9       8          7
Man-month costs (excluding local travel and transport) for RINDRA-s consultants,
and of legislation review have been estimated at US$15,200 (in December 1980
constant prices), for 156 and 20 man-months, respectively. CFC would employ
technical assistance staff for 279 man-months, at average cost, including
remuneration, travel and housing estimated at US$7,200 per man-month.
Financing Plan
2.09      The proposed financing plan for the project covering the period
1981-87 is as follows:
------------US$ Millions----------
Local           Foreign          Total
Proposed IDA credit
(a) Legislation review                                    0.3             0.3
(b) CFC                                  2.4              3.6             6.0
(c) RINDRA                                                3.7             3.7
(d) Local consulting firms                                1.5             1.5
Total                   2.4              9.1            11.5
Government budget allocation
(a) Legislation review                   0.2                              0.2
(b) CFC                                  1.4                              1.4
Total                   1.6                              1.6
Internally generated funds
(a) RINDRA                               0.8                              0.8
(b) Local consulting firms               0.3                              0.3
Total                   1.1                              1.1
Total Project Cost                 5.1               9.1            14.2



- 10 -
The financing requirements for the project are estimated at US$14.2 million
equivalent, including foreign exchange of US$9.1 million or 64% of the total
requirements. The financing plan proposed for the project includes an IDA
credit of US$11.5 million which would meet 81% of the total financing require-
ments, Government budget allocations that would finance US$1.6 million or 11%
and internally generated funds of RINDRA and other local firms that would
finance US$1.1 million or 8%. The proposed IDA credit would finance: foreign
exchange costs of the project totalling US$9.1 million equivalent; US$2.4
million of local costs of the project consisting of 95% of the local costs of
technical assistance to and goods for CFC; and 60% of the cost of local staff
of CFC. CFC would not have any significant revenues and its expenses and
those of the legislation review would have to be met almost entirely by
Government allocations (para. 4.01) from annual education budgets and from
the proposed credit. Local consulting firms would pay to the Government local
currency equivalent of the foreign exchange utilized by them out of the
proposed credit (para 2.12 f).
Implementation Schedule
2.10      Legislative changes (para 2.03 and Annex 6) would be enacted in
accordance with a schedule agreed with the Government and made applicable
to a progressively large group of enterprises over the project implementation
period. The Government has agreed that it would prepare and implement appro-
priate legislative measures in consultation with the Association (para. 6.01).
The project would be implemented over a six-year period FY1982-1987. The
initial months of the project would be devoted to: (a) the selection and
appointment in 1981 of CFC's and RINDRA's key management and senior staff and
RINDRA-s consultants; (b) the repair and rehabilitation of training facilities
and offices; (c) the preparation of course materials; and (d) the procurement
of books, supplies and equipment. The Government has indicated that it would
soon begin recruitment procedures and would invite from consulting firms
proposals for assistance to RINDRA. CFC is scheduled to start day classes
and evening classes in 1982 and 1983, respectively. The Government agreed to
a timetable for items (a), (b), (c) and (d) above, and to arrange for suitable
premises in Antananarivo to be made available to CFC in time for CFC to comply
with the agreed timetable (para 6.01). Consultancy services for the training
of specialists in financial systems and procedures would be provided as needed
by Malagasy organizations concerned. CFC-s director is expected to be appointed
by September 1, 1981 and teaching staff required by March 1, 1982, and CFC is
expected to commence classes in May 1982. RINDRA's director general is
expected to be appointed by September 1, 1981 and consultants by October 1,
1981.
Procurement
2.11      Procurement of goods relating to purchase of books, training aids,
office equipment and vehicles would be for relatively small amounts and would
be made in accordance with the Government-s normal procurement procedures.
These procedures are similar to the French "Reglementation des Marches Publics"
and are satisfactory to the Association. All foreign and domestic purchases
for contracts exceeding $20,000 (FMG 4 million) would be subject to



- 11 -
Association-s prior approval. Selection and appointment of expert staff for
legislation review, CFC and RINDRA would be covered by contracts concluded in
accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. RINDRA's
consultants would be appointed in accordance with terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association on the basis of proposals to be invited from a
selected number of international audit firms. Malagasy consulting firms would
employ foreign consultants for financial consultancy assignments on the basis
of contracts and terms of reference approved by the Association.
Disbursement
2.12      Disbursements are expected to be completed by September 30, 1987-and
an estimated disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 7. Funds from the
proposed IDA credit would be disbursed to meet the cost of:
(a) Experts for legislation review (US$0.3 million) for 100% of foreign
expenditure.
(b) Experts for CFC (US$3.0 million) for 100% of foreign expenditure and
95% of local expenditure on all contract staff salaries, emoluments
and costs.
(c) Local teaching and other staff for CFC (US$1.3 million) for 60% of
local expenditure on all local salaries and emoluments.
(d) Textbooks, equipment and supplies for CFC (US$1.7 million) for
100% of foreign expenditure and 95% of local expenditure on all
purchases.
(e) Consulting services for RINDRA (US$3.7 million) for 100% of foreign
expenditure on consultant firm costs. Disbursement would be made
against certification that the work charged for had been carried out
by the consultants or was otherwise chargeable in accordance
with the contract of the consultants.
(f) Training of Malagasy consultants (US$1.5 million) for 100% of all
foreign expenditure on foreign consultant contracts for approved
sub-projects. Disbursement would be made against certification that
the local currency equivalent of each disbursement application had
been paid by the local consultants to the Government and that the
work charged for had been carried out by the foreign consultants or
was otherwise chargeable in accordance with the contract of the
foreign consultant; and for 100% of all foreign expenditure on
consultants study for management consulting services in the country.
Project Alternatives
2.13      In designing project components that would help to achieve the
project's aim, various alternatives were considered. These are discussed
in the following paragraphs.



- 12 -
Alternative Locations for Accounting Training Centre (CFC)
2.14      Before recommending that CFC be located in Antananarivo the proposed
location of CFC was discussed by the mission with the Government and it was
discovered that a diversity of opinions was held by the Government. Toamasina
and Antananarivo were considered as alternative locations for CFC. Although
Toamasina has the advantage of the presence of the University Regional Center
(CUR), with its business administration and management faculty which would be
able to teach some courses at CFC, Antananarivo is the preferred alternative
because
- CFC would have to be located away from the CUR campus in a newly con-
structed building in Toamasina to avoid any risk of unrest among the CUR
students because of the difference in teaching environments, in that CFC
students will have better facilities than the CUR students (in the form
of smaller classes, fewer formal class sessions and adequate textbooks and
course materials). A new building would be costly whereas Antananarivo has
classroom space which could be rented.
- A CFC located in Toamasina would only provide daytime courses. As most
accountants who would be interested in evening school, work in Antananarivo,
a separate teaching facility would still have to be set up there to provide
evening courses for working accountants.
- If CFC were located in Antananarivo, a Management Committee composed of
representatives of related Government departments, of commercial and indus-
trial enterprises, and of the Order of Accountants, most of which are located
in that city, would be able to function more effectively to coordinate the
Center's activities to meet the needs of the business community (Annex 3).
Alternatives for Number of Classes and Students
2.15      Because CFC is a new institution and the magnitude of demand for
professional accountants and auditors is not yet well defined, CFC would
begin its operation on a small scale with limited student enrollment of two
classes. Details of student enrollment and classes in the daytime and evening
programs are stated in Annex 5. It is generally recognized that for a school
of this nature a manageable class size should not exceed 50 students, and this
is the preferred maximum class size for the project. Usually the Government's
policies discourage restrictions regarding university admission on any basis
other than completion of high school. However, in this case the Government
recognizes that as CFC would be a specialized school, limited enrollment would
be essential. Initially, no more than two classes of 50 students each would
be started for first year students. It is envisaged that the number of
students would be reduced by attrition to one class of 50 students by the
third year. The Government has agreed that there would be no more than two
classes for new daytime student enrollments in each of the first two years and
that class size would not exceed 50 students. The student enrollment envisaged
under the project is substantially below the demand for trained accountants.
However, an important aim of the project is to train local teachers (para.
2.04), and the student enrollment can be increased in the future when an



- 13 -
adequate number of local teachers has been trained under the project. More-
over, the demand for accountants to be trained would be affected by the
legislative measures (paras 2.03 and 2.10) when they have been enacted,
and a more realistic estimate of demand would be prepared in 1983.
Foreign Training vs. Local Training
2.16      The alternative of encouraging students to train and study abroad
by providing access to foreign exchange was considered. While this alterna-
tive has the advantage of offering training and educational facilities abroad
which are well established and highly developed, it could be costly in the
long term since, apart from substantial training cost and living expenses
abroad as well as travel costs, a number of students would be tempted to
remain abroad after completing their training and the effort and expense spent
on them would be wasted. While there are measures which can be instituted to
encourage students to return after completion of studies such as requiring
service bonds, these usually do not provide satisfactory results since, even
if these measures are enforceable, persons repatriated against their wishes
do not perform effectively. The promotion of training facilities within the
country, as proposed under the project, has the advantage of developing
institutions, and planning growth of such institutions to meet the future
needs of the country on a basis which would be more economical in the longer
term (para. 2.04). Additionally, the promotion of training facilities within
the country would help the local institutions, such as RINDRA and other
professional accounting and consultancy organizations, provide marketable
services and generate revenue (para. 5.04) within the project implementation
period. This would not be the case if students were sent abroad for training.
Monitoring
2.17      Monitoring standards will be established to achieve efficient imple-
mentation of the project and to help develop RINDRA and CFC as operation-
ally viable institutions. Some of the significant project activities to be
monitored against target dates are: (a) the selection and appointment of
expatriate and local staff of RINDRA and CFC, (b) the development of detailed
syllabi, and (c) the start of CFC's daytime and evening classes conducted at
the center at each course level. Training activities will be monitored by
comparing them with the CFC school program for the number of teaching hours
and the number of students at each course level in day and evening classes.
Operational monitoring of RINDRA will be in respect of the number of enter-
prises audited, hours billed to clients, expatriate and local staff hours
billed and not billed, and collection of billing revenues. The progress made
in implementing changes in legislation relating to the accountancy profession,
audit and accounts would be monitored against the agreed program. Target
dates to be used for monitoring the program (Annex 8) were agreed with the
Government (para. 6.01).
2.18      Supervision of the project by the Association would be performed in
two parts: (a) that of CFC by the Education Projects Division and (b) that



- 14 -
of RINDRA, assistance to local management consulting firms and the legislative
measures by the Energy and Water Supply Division. Initially the interval
between supervision missions should be about six months.
III. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
General
3.01      The implementing agencies would be (a) the Ministry of Higher
Education,for CFC; (b) the Ministry of Economy and Commerce (MEC)r for the
consultancy services in financial systems and procedures assistance and for
legislative measures (para 2.06); and (c) RINDRAjfor technical assistance in
auditing. These ministries and organizations are briefly described below.
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
3.02      The Ministry of Higher Education has under its responsibility the
University of Madagascar, and the country's technical schools. CFC would be
classified as a technical school and the Secretary General of the Ministry
would deal with its budgetary and related matters. The Director would be
responsible for the administration and implementation of the training program,
and would coordinate CFC's activities in relation to the needs of the account-
ing profession and commercial enterprises. CFC would be established in
Antananarivo. Its chief executive would be its Director who would report to
a Management Committee consisting of CFC's Director, and representatives of
relevant Government departments, accounting profession and the business
community.
Ministry of Economy and Commerce
3.03      The Ministry of Economy and Commerce (MEC) established RINDRA to
promote the development of audit services in the public sector. One of the
responsibilities of the Director-General of MEC, a new post recently created
in the Ministry, is overall coordination of project activities. Government
proposes to appoint the Director-General of MEC at the beginning of project
implementation and the MEC through the Director General or otherwise would
be responsible for the legislative changes (paras 2.03 and 2.10), as well
as supervision of assistance to local consulting firms (para 2.06).
RINDRA's Order of Incorporation
3.04      RINDRA was created in April, 1979 as a socialist enterprise by a
Government order. Prior to this date, audit services were provided by foreign
accounting firms on specific assignments and were used by a small number of
businesses in Madagascar. The Government does not intend that RINDRA be a
monopoly, but RINDRA's charter provides that it should have preference over
other audit firms in auditing socialist enterprises. As a Socialist Enter-
prise, RINDRA is responsible to the appropriate Orientation Council (Annex 4).
Its Order of Incorporation provides, however, that RINDRA is solely respons-
ible for the contents of its reports which are to be prepared "freely and
independently" in accordance with the rules governin; the profession.



- 15 -
3.05      The Charter of Socialist Enterprises (Annex 4) divided the country's
commercial activities into 16 economic sectors. RINDRA is in the "Control"
sector and its Management Committee comprises seven members: the Chairman (a
State Inspector of Accounts), appointed by the Prime Minister; four members
(representing the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Supreme
Revolutionary Council, and the Minister of Economy and Commerce); RINDRA's
Director-General; and a representative of the staff.
RINDRA's Management
3.06      RINDRA is in the early days of establishing itself as an audit
organization and is in competition with existing firms in the private
sector. RINDRA-s chief executive is its Director-General who is respon-
sible for RINDRA's level of activity, quality of professional services and
day-to-day management. He is responsible for signing all audit and other
reports in respect of RINDRA's professional work for its clients.
3.07      The present Director-General has been appointed to the post from
a background and experience restricted to government accounting and methods
rather than the required experience with a professional audit firm.
3.08      In order to operate effectively it is essential that RINDRA's
Director-General be an experienced and professionally qualified accountant
with appropriate experience. The Government has agreed to appoint and have
in post a Director-General with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association before the effectiveness of the proposed credit (para 6.02),
and that RINDRA shall at all times employ an appropriately qualified and
experienced person in this position; and that the Director-General would be
responsible to take all necessary decisions for the day-to-day management
and auditing activities of RINDRA including supervision of audit or other
professional work, signing or countersigning all audit reports, selection,
employment and development of audit staff, relations with RINDRA's clients,
and supervision of any consultants working for RINDRA (para 6.01).
RINDRA's Consultant
3.09      On October 1, 1978 the Government signed a six-month contract with
an international accounting consultants firm, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.
(PMM) to help establish RINDRA. Six months later, when RINDRA was incorporated
in April 1979, RINDRA signed a further contract with PMM for 27 months,which
expires on June 30, 1981. Under these contracts, PMM undertook to assist
RINDRA in recruiting audit staff, to implement basic as well as advanced
training programs in auditing, accounting and management systems and proce-
dures, to supervise work performed by RINDRA staff on audit assignments; and,
in collaboration with the Director-General, to manage RINDRA's overall opera-
tions. PMMs performance in the training of local staff and the quality of
its audits is satisfactory. However, assistance provided by PMM in introduc-
ing procedures for RINDRA's management (required under their contract) was
unsatisfactory (para 3.11).



- 16 -
RINDRA's Operations
3.10      During 21 months, from October 1, 1978 to June 30, 1980, RINDRA's
staff under the supervision of PMM carried out auditing and related assignments
for about 40 enterprises which are among the larger companies in Madagascar.
About two-thirds of these assignments were for audit and the others were
partial reviews either for specific problems or because clients' accounts were
not ready for audit. Although the audit and other assignments completed were
carried out satisfactorily, RINDRA did not reach its planned level of audit
activity during the first two years of operation.  This lower level of
audit activity was mainly due to uncompetitive fees (para 4.04) demanded for
RINDRA's services and to the lack of awareness by its potential clients of the
value of its services. RINDRA's operations include a substantial element of
training, both classroom and on-the-job, which its consultants carried out
satisfactorily.
RINDRA's Accounting and Auditing
3.11      In their report on RINDRA's accounts for the period to June 30,
1980 its auditors state that the accounts require many corrections and adjust-
ments, that RINDRA has not observed certain fundamental accounting principles
and that RINDRA's management of audit assignments is inadequate.
3.12      The Government has agreed that RINDRA and CFC would maintain satis-
factory accounts, RINDRA would have its accounts audited every year by inde-
pendent external auditors acceptable to the Association and CFC by Inspection
Generale de l'Etat and that copies of audited financial statements would be
submitted to the Association within five months after the end of each finan-
cial year (para 6.01). RINDRA's accounts are audited by a local firm of
auditors who are satisfactory to the Association.
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Accounting Training Centre
4.01      CFC's estimated operating cost for the six years 1981 through 1986,
including contingencies, is FMG 1.46 billion (US$7.3 million) (para 2.09).
CFC-s students would only pay token fees as is the case in the University, and
costs would be funded by the project and by the Government. The Government
has agreed that it would, at the beginning of each fiscal year, provide a
budgetary allocation in the name of CFC, against which CFC would make payments
as and when they were required by the project (para 6.01).



- 17 -
Past Operations and Financial Position of RINDRA
4.02      RINDRA's audited balance sheet, as of June 30, 1980, after 21 months
of operations (including 6 months before it was incorporated, para. 3.09) is
summarized below:
RINDRA Audited Balance Sheet as at June 30, 1980
Millions                                 Millions
FMG      US$                            FMG        US$
Assets                                      Liabilities and Equity
Current assets                                Current
Cash                    100.77     0.50      liabilities        268.78       1.34
Accounts receivable    89.41        0.45
Other                    85.63     0.43
Total Current Assets  275.81        1.38    Advance from
Government        212.00       1.06
Deposits                    1.37      0.01    Deposits              0.70       0.01
Equity
Capital           50.00       0.25
Fixed assets at cost       40.57      0.20      Accumulated
less depreciation          4.89     0.02        loss            -218.62      -1.09
Net fixed assets         35.68     0.18         Total Equity -168.62        -0.84
312.86      1.57                        312.86       1.57
RINDRA's financial position on June 30, 1980 was marked by (i) an accummu-
lated loss (para 4.03); (ii) receivables of FMG 89.41 million (about US$0.45
million), representing close to five months billed fees, which is unsatis-
factory; (iii) an interest free advance with unspecified repayment period
from the Government to provide working capital; and (iv) some FMG 112 million
(about US$0.56 million) debt to its consultant PMM representing about 7 months
charges for their services.



- 18 -
4.03      RINDRA's audited income statement for the first 21 months of
operation ended June 30, 1980, is summarized below:
Audited Income Statement for 21 Months Ended June 30, 1980
Millions
Revenue                                      FMG              US$
Professional fees                    288.01             1.44
Expenses
Personnel                             66.35             0.33
PMM's fees and expenses              387.37             1.94
Administrative expenses               48.02             0.24
Depreciation                           4.89            0.02
Total expenses                    506.63            2.53
Deficit                                    218.62            1.09
RINDRA's revenues were 57% of the total expenses for the period and only
covered 74% of its consultants' fees and expenses. RINDRA's level of activity
was only about 65% of what was planned. This was in part due to its uncom-
petitive scale of fees. However, even the planned level of activity would not
have been sufficient to cover the expenses including all of the consultants'
costs.
Level of RINDRA's Fees
4.04      RINDRA's average hourly fees were FMG 8,500 for the first nine
months of operation and FMG 9,500 since August, 1979. Its fees were about
40% higher than those of other accounting firms, whose average hourly fees
ranged between FMG 6,000 and 7,000. This accounts for clients' resistance
to RINDRA's services. Any further increase of RINDRA's fees in the near
future would exacerbate this resistance and RINDRA instead needs to reduce
costs (para. 4.05).
Future Financial Position of RINDRA
4.05      The financial year ending on June 30, 1981 will be the last year of
PMM's existing contract. Certain measures will have to be taken if RINDRA is
to be competitive with other accounting firms and have a positive cash flow and
operating income. It would be necessary to: (i) bring its average hourly fees
down to the equivalent of FMG 7,000 (in December 1980 constant prices) in FY
1982, (ii) spread technical assistance expenses under the project over a
period of say five years, to reflect the outside aid-s lasting benefits and
(iii) obtain a loan to meet its financing requirements. The Government would
relend to RINDRA, at 12% annual interest and with repayment in ten years,



- 19 -
including a grace period of three years, the FMG equivalent of the amount
estimated at US$3.7 million to be utilized from the proposed credit to meet
RINDRA's expenditures. The proposed interest rate is similar to the expected
inflation rates in Madagascar which are expected to be about 12% annually
during the period 1980 to 1987, and averaged 9% per year during the years 1976
to 1979. The Government would assume the risk of foreign exchange rate
fluctuations subsequent to disbursement from the proposed credit. The Govern-
ment has agreed that execution of a relending agreement with RINDRA on these
terms would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (para.
6.02). RINDRA is expected to be in a position to reimburse by FY1990 the
Government's loan. The FY 1980-1989 financial statements and explanatory
notes thereon are presented in Annexes 9, 10, 11, and 12.
4.06      RINDRA's financial objectives are to provide professional accounting
and audit services to its clients at competitive rates, achieve and maintain
a sound financial and working capital position, and operate profitably so that
it can repay its debts and pay reasonable dividends to the Government.
4.07      RINDRA's Funds Flow Statement covering the six-year period,
FY1982-1987, is summarized below:



- 20 -
RINDRA's Funds Flow Statement
for Six Years 1982 to 1987
FMG Million      US$ Million
Sources of funds
Internal generation of funds
before charging technical
assistance
Net operating income                  328                1.64
Add:  Depreciation                      54               0.27
Amortization of
technical assistance
foreign costs                  615               3.07
Total internal cash
generation             997                4.98
Government Loan (IDA funds onlent)          740               3.70
Total sources               1,737               8.68
Application of Funds
Technical assistance payments
in foreign currency                      740               3.70
Additions to fixed assets                    43               0.21
Repayment of Government loan, and
interest                                  554               2.77
Increase in working capital                 400               2.00
Total applications          1,737               8.68
This table indicates that over the six-year period, FY 1982 through 1987,
RINDRA would: (a) pay for the local cost of its technical assistance;
(b) reimburse about FMG 554 million (US$2.77 million) of Government loan and
interest while reducing its fees to a more competitive level (para. 4.05); and
(c) improve its working capital position.
Local Consulting Firms
4.08      The local consulting firms would pay to the Government the FMG
equivalent of amounts utilized by them out of the proposed credit and would
thus meet the entire costs, both local and foreign, for assistance provided to
them under the project. The Government has agreed to appropriate procedures
for collecting such payments (paras 2.06 and 2.12).



- 21 -
V. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Justification
5.01      The purpose of improving accounting performance is to provide
a continuous flow of reliable accounting information about commercial enter-
prises to their managements, shareholders, the Orientation Councils, and the
Government of Madagascar. Audit of accounts of commercial enterprises by
qualified professionals will ensure that accounts are prepared in compliance
with acceptable accounting principles and that they provide reliable informa-
tion.
5.02      Madagascar lacks qualified accountants, and only a small number of
enterprises accounts are audited. Neither the management nor the Government
has been able to obtain adequate and reliable financial information about
enterprises. Since Government has assumed control of a number of these enter-
prises, it recognizes this situation as a critical deficiency and has, (a)
promulgated the Charter of Socialist Enterprises which requires that enter-
prises be independently audited; and (b) set up RINDRA, the national auditing
company which will provide an audit service. There is thus a potential demand
for professional accountants to staff enterprises financial departments, for
qualified auditors to staff RINDRA and other accounting firms, and for
experienced management consultants to reorganize financial systems and
procedures of commercial enterprises.
5.03      This project, the first IDA project of its kind in East Africa,
attempts to meet these demands for Madagascar.
Benefits
5.04      The benefits of the project are considerable though not fully
quantifiable. Assistance to be provided under the project for changes in
legislation relating to accounting and audit would help create a suitable
commercial environment by setting minimum standards of financial reporting to
develop uniform practices, the benefits of which for those making use of the
reports would be considerable. Education at CFC, when fully established,
would cost about US$2,000 per student year (para. 2.04), while its benefits
are potentially substantial considering the improvements in operation, manage-
ment and planning of organizations which would make use of the persons trained
at CFC. Training of the staff of RINDRA and of other local consulting firms,
on the other hand, would produce more apparent benefits by developing and
improving the quality of services which are readily marketable. RINDRA is
expected to have a positive operating income during virtually the entire
project period indicating that even the apparent benefits of providing assis-
tance to RINDRA would be in excess of its cost. Similarly, local consultants
would provide services to their clients at the same time as their staff are
being trained, and earn revenue for those services which are expected to be no
less than the cost of training and other costs related to providing such
services.



- 22 -
Risks
5.05      The physical risks of the project are negligible since no major
construction of facilities would be involved. Initial major repairs and
furnishing of CFC's rented classroom facilities are not expected to present
unusual risks.
5.06      The appointment of technical assistance staff for RINDRA and CFC
in accordance with the scheduled requirements is vital to the success of the
project. The Government has agreed that it will at all times employ appro-
priately qualified and experienced staff in CFC and RINDRA inluding their
Director and Director-General respectively. Delays in implementing the
project would be minimized since the Government has agreed that a Director-
General for RINDRA with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association would be in post before the effectiveness of the proposed credit,
and that RINDRA's consultants would be appointed after July 1, 1981 (para
6.01), that CFC would be established at suitable premises in Antananarivo
(para 2.10) and that a Director for CFC with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association would be employed before the effectiveness of
the proposed credit (para 6.02). The Director General of RINDRA and the
Director of CFC, would be responsible for the timely selection and appointment
of other technical assistance staff for the two respective organizations
(para 6.01).
5.07      Local currency funds required for CFC's operation would be provided
partly by the proposed credit and partly by the Government out of the recurrent
expenditure budget of the Ministry of Higher Education. However, during the
implementation period the budget allocation would not need to be financed
entirely from the Government general revenues because funds would also be
generated from the receipt by the Government of the local currency equivalent
of the foreign exchange IDA credit disbursements from the proposed credit for
assistance to local consultants (para. 2.12). To reduce the risk of shortage
of funds to meet CFC's cash requirements, suitable arrangements will be made
by the Government to provide funds (paras 4.01 and 6.01).
5.08      As the Government has agreed to a schedule for enactment of legisla-
tion for accounting and audit (para. 2.03), which is essential to the project,
chances of achieving optimal benefits for the project would be enhanced.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations satisfactory agreements and assurances were
obtained from the Government with regard to the following:
(a)  A survey would be completed by December 31, 1983 of the
needs for qualified accountants and auditors projected
for a ten-year period (para. 2.04).
(b)  A Management Committee for CFC would be appointed (para 2.04);
(c)  Target dates have been agreed for the proposed CFC program
(para. 2.10);



- 23 -
(d) The Government would arrange for the timely provision of
suitable premises in Antananarivo for CFC (para. 2.10);
(e) The Government would take all steps necessary to prepare
appropriate legislative measures in consultation with the
Association, and implement them according to an agreed
schedule (para 2.10);
(f)  A maximum of 100 students would be admitted to the CFC for
each of 1982 and 1983 respectively, and divided into two
classes each of no more than 50 students (para. 2.15);
(g) Target dates to be used in monitoring the Project have
been agreed (para. 2.17).
(h) The Director-General of RINDRA and the Director of CFC would
be responsible for the timely selection and appointment of
their respective organization-s staff (paras. 3.08 and 5.06);
(i) CFC's and RINDRA's accounts would be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to IDA and their reports would be avail-
able within five months after the end of each financial year
(para. 3.12).
(j) An allocation of the local currency requirements of CFC would
be established annually by the Government against which CFC
would draw its local currency funds as and when required by
the Project (para. 4.01);
(k) A firm of consultants to assist RINDRA would be appointed
soon after July 1, 1981 (para. 5.06);
(1) RINDRA and CFC would employ at all times appropriately
qualified and experienced staff including the Director of CFC
and Director-General of RINDRA (para. 5.06).
6.02      The following should be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
credit:
(a) Effective appointment of RINDRA's Director-General with quali-
fications and experience acceptable to the Association (para.
3.08).
(b) Execution of an appropriate agreement between the Government
and RINDRA for a loan equivalent to US$3.7 million (para. 4.05).
(c) Establishment of CFC at suitable premises in Antananarivo
(para. 5.06).
(d) Appointment of CFC's Director with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association (para 5.06).
6.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR 9.4 million (equal to US$11.5 million) on standard terms.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Educational Facilities
1.1       The University of Madagascar and secondary technical schools in
the formal education system, and the Chambers of Commerce and private commer-
cial schools outside that system, offer accounting courses.
University of Madagascar
1.2       The University of Madagascar consists of six university regional
centers 1/ (CUR) and has a combined enrollment of about 28,000 students. Each
CUR specializes in a field of education and the CUR at Toamasina provides
courses in business administration and management. It offers four-year
degree programs leading to a Bachelor in Business Administration (with Manage-
ment as a major) and Bachelor of Economics (with an economics major). The
accounting taught in these programs is of a general level as a subject
of secondary importance.
1.3       In general, the CUR-s are inadequately staffed.  For example, the
CUR at Toamasina has only 30 teachers for 1,400 students.   In the larger
classes (which sometimes means 900 students) almost the entire teaching time
is devoted to dictating lengthy notes which are used in lieu of textbooks, as
there is a shortage of books and teaching materials.
Secondary Technical Schools
1.4       Secondary technical schools (lycees techniques commerciaux)
offer business education programs in secretarial and commercial/accounting
subjects. The four-year commercial/accounting graduates receive a diploma and
afterwards attend University or become bookkeepers or assistant accountants.
A secondary school is located in each province and Antananarivo is the
largest with 700 students and 34 teachers, while the country's other five
schools together equal this number of students and teaching staff.
1.5       Until 1978 a post-secondary two-year technical education program
was offered in Antananarivo. That program led to a diploma which was
equivalent to two years of university credit.
1.6       The secondary schools have a good reputation and the program
of studies is sound. Classroom facilities and teaching staff are adequate
considering present enrollment. The program is somewhat weak in financial
1/   Antananarivo, Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliary.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
mathematics and in general business subjects, and course materials need
updating. As at the University (para. 1.13), textbooks are not available
and much of teacher and student time is spent preparing course materials.
1.7       The Malagasy Chamber of Commerce, which has ten locations 1/ through-
out the country offers adult education courses in business and various trades.
Courses are designed for those employed in industry or commerce and consist of
one or two-hour evening classes. General enrollment requlires that a student
has completed seven years of school. To enroll for the third-year business
education course a student must be a general office clerk, and, for the fourth
year course, must be a bookkeeper. Diplomas are awarded at the end of the
third and fourth year of the program.
1.8      The Chambers of Commerce attempt to satisfy a strong need for adult
education, but are impeded by various factors: teachers have two to three
years of university training but no teacher training and thus are not fully
qualified; the teaching program itself lacks a director and is not well
organized; and course selection is limited and there is a shortage of books
and materials. In general, due to a lack of qualified teachers, administrators,
and insufficient funds, the Chamber's classroom facilities are underutilized.
Private Commercial Schools
1.9      A large number of small, private, commercial schools with varying
standards of quality, provide training for general office clerks and typists.
1/   Antananarivo, Toamasina, Antsiranana, Mahajanga, Toliary, Fianarantsoa,
Toalanaro, Antsirabe, Antalaha, and Sambara.



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
MADAGASGAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Existing Company and Accounting Legislation
2.1       Limited liability companies (societes anonymes) are governed by a
law of 1867, and limited liability partnerships (societes 'a responsabilite
limite'e) by a law of 1925. These two laws apply to all the companies in
Madagascar other than the socialist enterprises (Annex 4).
2.2       The law of 1867 governing societes anonymes provides for annual
general meetings of shareholders to elect directors (the Board comprises
between 3 and 12 directors, for a term of six years) and to appoint Commis-
saires aux comptes as auditors. The law also requires that, at the end of
each fiscal year, the Board of Directors submit to the shareholders a profit
and loss statement and balance sheet, together with a report on the company's
operations. These documents are required to be accompanied by the report of
the Commissaires aux comptes on his verification of the company's books, the
consistency of procedures, correctness of inventories and balance sheets, and
the accuracy of the company's accounts.
2.3       The law of 1925 governing Societes a responsabilite limitee provides
for management committees of 3 partners, annual general meetings of partners,
and formal annual reports to the partners only if the number of partners is
more than 20. Few partnerships with limited liability are of that size in
Madagascar.
2.4       Neither of these laws specify any mandatory qualification for Com-
missaires aux comptes (although in the case of a company issuing its shares to
the public, the Commissaire must be chosen from a list established by a Court
of Appeal); or the extent of their audit; or the required content of the
financial statements to be provided. No minimum qualifications are laid down
for Commissaires aux comptes. In practice the audits may well be inadequate
since the procedure established over the years is that the Commissaires aux
comptes, who are generally "Experts Comptables" or "Comptables Agrees", are
paid scale fees according to the size of the company concerned and these fees
are so inadequate that they allow for only a superficial review of the
companies accounts.
2.5       A decree of January 7, 1969 provides an accounting classification
(plan comptable) that, in practice, is enforced by the tax inspectors in the
case of the 500 companies with turnovers exceeding FMG 30 million (US$150,000)
that are required to submit detailed accounts in support of their tax returns.
However, the plan comptable relates to details of accounting heads for book-
keeping and does not regulate annual accounts statements themselves.



- 27 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Major Accounting and Management Services Firms
Fivoarana
3.1       In 1975  Raymond Rabenoro and Denis Rakotomanga established
Fivoarana, an accounting firm. Mr. Rabenoro had been Secretary-General
of Finance in the Ministry of Finance from 1960 to 1972, and Financial Adviser
to the President of the Republic from 1972 to 1975. Mr. Rakotomanga has
a French engineering degree in Telecommunications, a MBA from Fontainbleau-s
European Business School and, prior to 1975, had worked for the French Telecom-
munications Administration.
3.2       Fivoarana provides three types of services:
-- auditing;
-- review, design and implementation of accounting
systems and procedures;
-- computer systems applications.
3.3       Fivoarana's 17 member staff was hired out of European technical
schools and all are Malagasy. Twelve of them are both auditors and management
consultants and the other five are computer-specialists, of which four are
programmers. Staff size is temporarily less than usual due to staff turnover
but will soon return to its normal size of twenty.
3.4       Fivoarana has about 20 clients most of which are public sector
enterprises. Staff time is devoted in about equal proportion to providing
audit, organizational, and computer systems services. Fivoarana does not
wish to expand its audit services beyond its present level of activity of ten
or twelve clients.
3.5       Fivoarana's Port of Toamasina work on accounting procedures was
satisfactory. Fivoarana was also retained to prepare a study for the Malagasy
Railways in connection with an IDA-financed development program. This study
is now proceeding.
Mrs. Madeleine Ramaholimihaso-s Firm
3.6       Mrs. Ramaholimihaso, an Expert Comptable, is head of the largest
accounting firm in the country. Three years ago it began to provide limited
management services to its clients but since RINDRA was established the



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
firm has developed its management and audit capability. The country's most
important enterprises are among this firm-s 65 clients.
This firm offers the following services:
Certification
Auditing (still on a limited basis)
Management services in accounting and finance
Legal advice
Arbitration
Financial advice
3.7       Mrs. Ramaholimihaso estimates that 60 percent of her firm's time
is devoted to providing certification and audit, and 40 percent to other
services. Whenever there are assignments beyond her firm's capability,
Mrs. Ramaholimihaso is aided by the French accounting and audit firm, Bureau
d'Etudes Financieres et de Contr'ole Comptable (BEFEC). At present the firms
are working together to reorganize and computerize JIRAMA's 1/ accounting and
financial procedures.  BEFEC intends to provide Mrs. Ramaholimihaso-s firm
with assistance in auditing techniques and, in the fall 1980, will conduct
auditing seminars for her staff and some other accounting firms associated
with the Order of Accountants.
3.8       Mrs. Ramaholimihaso's staff numbers 22 persons, 16 of whom are
capable of working as accountants as well as providing some management
advisory services in systems and procedures.
Institut National de Promotion Formation (INPF)
3.9       The Institut National de Promotion-Formation (INPF) was set up
in March 1974 as an Industrial and Commercial Public Establishment (EPIC) to
replace the "Institut de Formation Professionelle des Adultes" that had been
formed in 1969.
3.10      The INPF has three departments which provide consultancy and train-
ing services to medium and small sized private as well as Government enter-
prises. These services include:
--   organization and management, i.e., dealing with personnel,
financial and commercial management;
1/   JIRAMA is the Malagasy power and water supply organization.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
--   industrial techniques, i.e., production management, elec-
trical and electronic engineering, mechanical engineering.
3.11      Since its inception the INPF has been funded by UNDP and the
Government. The UNDP provided US$4 million for foreign experts, operating
costs of US$3 million, equipment costs of US$0.5 million and scholarship funds
of US$0.4 million. The Government provided funds for training, a building at
Ivato (FMG 1 billion, equivalent to US$5 million) and for a part of the oper-
ating costs (FMG 1 billion, equivalent to US$5 million). The Government and
UNDP funding is expected to continue until 1981. INPF's revenues from service
sales (in 1979 FMG 50 million and in 1980 FMG 100 million) were equal to about
half of the Government's contribution. This was due to (a) the substantial
cost of the staff training program and (b) INPF-s inefficient operation caused
by ineffective marketing of their services.
3.12      The INPF has obtained three experts through the ILO (one each for
engineering; for medium and small size enterprises, and for finance and
accounting) who help 49 Malagasy consultants trained by those experts. Five
of these Malagasy are finance and accounting consultants.
3.13      In 1979, INPF provided management and training services to 25 large
enterprises and organization, and gave seminars to 615 trainees for a total
of about 1,000 manweeks. These services were also extended to medium and
small size enterprise in 1979. In 1980, Government's contribution to INPF's
operation costs was doubled and INPF plans to ask UNDP to continue its
participation in the program until 1985 and to finance four additional ex-
patriate experts, including one for budgetary control of commercial enter-
prises. INPF hopes that with these experts, it can train 15 additional
Malagasy nationals as financial and accounting consultants within 18 months,
bringing the total of those consultants to 20.
3.14      INPF's services to small enterprises are of acceptable quality.
Other Organizations
3.15      In addition to the above institutions, the "Centre de Formation de
Cadres et d'Animation pour les Collectivites Decentralisees", trains local
Government staff, and the "Centre National de Formation de Cadres Dirigeants"
plans to provide short courses and seminars to management level personnel.



- 30 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Charter of Socialist Enterprises - 1978
4.1       The Government is progressively bringing under its control the
principal firms in each sector through the implementation of the Charter of
Socialist Enterprises. The country has been divided into 16 economic sec-
tors 1/ and there will be a "Conseil d'Orientation" (Council) for each
sector that will oversee all socialist enterprises. Each council will be
responsible for deciding its sector policy in accordance with guidelines
which are established in the national and regional plans. The Councils and
their members will be responsible to the Supreme Council of the Revolution
(CSR). Council members will be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers to five-
year terms and will include: two representatives of the management committees
from the sector's enterprises (see para. 4.2 below); two representatives of
cooperatives (if they exist); three Government representatives; two represen-
tatives of the Popular National Assembly; and two elected delegates from the
sector's workers. The Councils have not yet been established and the CSR's
Commission for Industry and Commerce is presently performing the functions of
the Conseils d'Orientation.
4.2       Each Socialist Enterprise has a Management Committee, which ensures
that the guidelines and programs prepared by the Council are followed by the
enterprise. The Management Committee consists of seven to eleven members
including: the Chairman and three (to five) representatives of the Govern-
ment (including the Director-General), who are appointed by the Prime Minister
at the recommendation of the Council; one (or two) representatives of local
governments (if needed); two (to four) workers' delegates; and one (to three)
representatives of minority (private sector) shareholders of the enterprises,
if any.
4.3       The chief executive of an enterprise is called the Director-
General (or Director) depending on the importance of the enterprise, and is
appointed by the Prime Minister at the recommendation of the Management
Committee. The chief executive automatically becomes a member of the Manage-
ment Committee.
1/   The economic sectors are:  (1) agriculture; (2) fishing; (3) animal hus-
bandry; (4) banking and finance; (5) water and energy; (6) transporta-
tion; (7) mining and extraction industries; (8) public works and housing;
(9) commerce and distribution; (10) textile and leather; (11) wood and
derivatives; (12) food industries; (13) mechanical and electrical indus-
tries; (14) chemical industries; (15) service operations; and (16) con-
trol.



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2of 2
4.4       External auditors for each enterprise will be appointed annually by
the Council after approval by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Justice.
The duties assigned to external auditors are very wide as they are not only
required to report on the fairness, accuracy and correctness of accounts, but
also on operational aspects and the performance of management. The auditors
also report on whether or not the enterprise has met its objectives set by the
Council. The auditor's report is submitted to the Council after the contents
have been discussed with the chief executive of the enterprise.



- 32 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 12
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project Description
Changes in Legislation
5.1       The Government with the help of consultants and CFC's and RINDRA's
technical assistance experts would examine existing legislation and would
implement by mid-1982 such amending or additional legislation as may be
necessary in regard to legal requirements for the preparation, and publishing
of accounts of corporate entities; for the audit of such accounts by profes-
sionally qualified auditors; and for the establishment and enforcement of
appropriate ethical and professional standards for the audit and accounting
profession in Madagascar. Annex 6 describes in outline the essential account-
ing and auditing requirements which should be included in the legislation.
CFC Component
5.2       CFC would be responsible for planning and programming the account-
ancy training as well as publicizing these programs. Its Director will be
assisted by an Advisory Board, who will keep abreast of training requirements
so that CFC can adjust its program accordingly. After the program is in
progress CFC will survey the country-s accounting needs to determine how the
Centre should evolve in the future.
5.3       Costs covered in the six-year project include:
(a) Repairs to the rented facility and procurement of furniture
and equipment for classrooms and offices;
(b) Students' textbooks and other materials;
(c) Program development for daytime and evening classes and
correspondence courses.
(d) Expatriate and local staff remuneration and perquisites.
Enrollment
5.4       It is proposed that daytime classes be limited to 50 students each
while evening school enrollment be determined by demand for the courses. With
an average attrition rate of 20 percent, at the completion of the program
there will be about 40 students with post-graduate qualifications. The
following is an enrollment schedule for full-time degree candidates:



- 33 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 12
TABLE
PLANNED ENROLLMENTS - FULL TIME STUDENTS
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Intake    Intake    Intake    Intake    Intake    Total
Year 1            100                                                    100
Year 2             64        100                                         164
Year 3             50         64        100                              214
Year 4             46         50         64        100                   260
Year 5             40         46         50         64        100        300
Certificates/Honors
5.5       Graduates of the five-year daytime program, or its equivalent in
the evening and correspondence programs, would receive certificates to that
effect. If students fulfill the Order of Accountants training and examination
requirements, they will qualify to become "Expert Comptable" and be admitted
to the Order.
Staff Requirements
5.6       CFC's Director would be a qualified accountant and should be
appointed by June 1, 1981 to enable CFC's operations to start early in 1982.
Two qualified teachers will be employed in the first year and two more quali-
fied teachers will join CFC in the second year. CFC's Director and all the
qualified teachers are expected to have been replaced by local teachers by the
ninth year with replacements in the fifth year (one), sixth year (one),
seventh year (two) and the eighth year (one).
5.7       Teachers will also be recruited on a per course basis from the
IJniversity of Madagascar and local enterprises, and will teach a total of 22
courses in the full-time school. Malagasy teaching assistants would be
employed to work with each qualified teacher and help them in grading papers,
developing course materials and conducting classes. These assistants would
assume the responsibilities of the qualified contract teachers after they have
acquired sufficient experience and knowledge. The requirements for CFC's
teaching staff for the first nine years are presented below:



- 34 -                                           ANNEX 5
page 3 of 12
TABLE
ESTIMATED TEACHING REQUIREMENTS
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9
1/
1.  Number of students                   100       164       214       260       300       300       300      300       300
2.  Total number of daytime
courses                               24        48        58        70       79        79        79        79        79
3.  Number of accounting
courses taught
(a)  Daytime                          12       30        37        48        57        57        57        57        57
(b)  Evening                           4         6        6         6         6         6         6         6         6
(c)  Total                           16        36        4354                63        63        63        63       Z3
- by contract staff             16        36                  t E       43        32        21         o        0
- by regular staff               0         0         0        11        20        31        42       63        63
4.  Number of non-accounting
courses taught by regular
staff
Daytime                             12       18        21        22        22        22        22        22        22
5.  Courses per semester per
contract staff 2/                      4.0       4.5       5.4      5.4       5.4       5.3       5.2       0         0
6.  Total number of staff
required for accounting
courses 3/                             3         5         5        6         7         7         7         7         7
- contract staff                       3         5         5         5        5         4         3         1         0
- regular staff                        0         0         0        1         2         3         4         6         7
1/  See para. 5.4
2/  Total courses taught by contract staff per year (line 3c) divided by the number of contract staff required
(line 6), excluding the director, divided by 2 semesters. Average training is normally 5 courses per semester
each of 3 teaching hours a week at university level.
3/  Includes the Director.



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 12
5.8       Aside from the teaching staff the Centre will locally recruit an
Assistant-Director, Dean of Students, Administrative Assistant, accountant,
and two secretaries. The total permanent staff requirements including
teachers by year 5 are 18 as summarized below:
(a) Director of CFC
(b) Assistant Director
(c) Dean of Students
(d) Accountant
(e) Administrative Assistant
(f) Accounting teaching staff (4)
(g) Teaching assistants (4)
(h) Secretary (2)
(i) Office clerk
(j) Operator for the duplicating machines
(k) Janitor
5.9       CFC will require the following facilities:
(a) 7 classrooms each to accommodate up to 50 students
(b) 6 administrative offices (for the Director, the Assistant Director,
the Dean of Students, the accountant, the Administrative Assistant,
and the secretaries)
(c) Office space for four teaching staff and assistants
(d) Duplicating equipment and an appropriate room to house and operate
such equipment.
(e) Library
(f) A storage room
(g) A staff room



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 12
CFC-s Outline Syllabus
5.10      An outline syllabus prepared for CFC is described in this paragraph
and would be developed into detailed syllabi after CFC has been established.
First Year
(a) Spoken and written Malagasy (as at present)
(b) Spoken and written French (as at present)
(c) Spoken and written English (as at present)
(d) Financial Accounting I
Introduction to accounting-bookkeeping, debits and credits, closing
and other journal entries and preparation of financial statements.
Use of the cash book, accounting for a distribution company, ledgers,
working capital and the accounting cycle.
(e) Financial Accounting II
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting I.
Fixed assets, investments and long-term debts. Introduction to
accounting for different types of organizations (corporations,
State companies, partnerships, sole proprietorships, etc.)
(f) Civil Law (as at present)
(g) Principles of Economics (macro): (as at present)
(h) Principles of Economics (micro) : (as at present)
(i) Business Mathematics I and II
Review of classical algebra. Sets and operations on sets. Relations
and functions, systems of linear equations. Vectors. Matrices. The
inverse of a matrix. Determinants. Linear combinations. Introduction
to linear programming. The simplex method.
(j) Introduction to Business
This introductory course presents a general idea of the business
world and the principal functions of the enterprise: organization
production, marketing, human relations, finance.



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 12
Second Year
(a)  Financial Accounting III
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting II
After a review of accounting procedures and the preparation of
financial statements, the student will learn basic accounting
principles and their use in an in-depth study of balance sheet
items.
(b)  Financial Accounting IV
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting III
Further study of the application of basic accounting principles
to balance sheet items, followed by the study of corrective entries,
single entry bookkeeping, the statement of sources and applications
of funds, and inflation accounting.
(c)  Commercial Law:  (as at present)
(d)  Introduction to Data Processing
In this course the student learns the principles of data processing
and its impact on the enterprise. The course familiarizes the
student with data processing by computer, with special emphasis on
logic, design and process charts. Introduction to a basic language
(using terminals).
(e)  Programming Applied to Business
Prerequisite: Introduction to Data Processing
Study of an advance programming language, including laboratory work.
The course is oriented toward commercial applications, so that the
student will be able to take part in the processing of a computer
data system.
(f)  Business Mathematics - Calculus I
Graphic representations. Functions: rational, exponential, loga-
rithmic. Arithmetic and geometric series. Applications of compound
interest. Continuity and limits. The derivative. Rules for taking
derivatives. Derivatives of simple functions. Differentiation.
Maxima and minima of functions. Rates of change. Derivatives of
orders higher than one. Inflection point. Applications.



- 38 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 12
(g) Introduction to Finance
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting II
The nature of finance and its role in business, as well as its
impact on all economic aspects of the modern world. The importance
of understanding financial mechanisms for those concerned with
management science. The tools of finance: stocks, bonds, borrow-
ings, risks. Financial planning, control, distribution of profits,
self-financing. Malagasy management consulting firms. Financial
organization and reorganization of firms.
(h) Financial Institutions
Description, analysis and role of financial institutions in the
economic context of Madagascar. The following institutions are
discussed: banks, insurance companies, finance companies, govern-
ment.
(i) Principles of Management I
Definition of management. The function of management. Planning
and monitoring of activities, determination of objectives.
Decision-making, strategies and policy, techniques of control.
(j) Financial Mathematics
Simple interest, compound interest, simple annuities, amortization,
depreciation, debentures, general annuities, perpetual annuities.
Third Year
(a) Tax Law and the Tax System (as at present)
(b) Specialized Accounting I
Consolidated accounts
(c) Cost Accounting I
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting II
Concepts and classification of costs. Cycle of cost accounting.
Study of job cost and process cost. Valuation and accounting of
byproducts and main products.



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 12
(d) Cost Accounting II
Prerequisite: Cost Accounting I
Cost accounting and control of each of the three elements
of manufacturing cost: raw material, labor and overhead costs.
Standard costs.
(e) Corporation Finance and Financial Analysis I
Prerequisite: Financial Mathematics
Scope and nature of financial management. Financial analysis,
forecasting and control. Management of working capital. Decision-
making on long-term investments.
(f) Corporation Finance and Financial Analysis II
Prerequisite: Financial Mathematics and Introduction to Finance
Sources of long-term financing. Financial structure and capital
costs.  Internal financing and dividends policy.  External growth:
mergers, management companies, bankruptcy, reorganization and
liquidation.
(g) Principles of Management II
Prerequisite: Principles of Management I
Organization, nature and purpose, charging of activities, hier-
archical relationships, decentralization, delegation of authority.
Business organization. Personnel organization. Management,
motivation and leadership.
(h) Elements of Production
This course is an introduction to the organization of the produc-
tion system, selection of equipment and processes, production
facilities, identification of expenditures, inventory control and
manpower planning.
Fourth Year
(a) Accounting Theory
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting IV
Historical study of accounting, bases of accounting assumptions
and principles regarding various accounts, profits, the impact of
inflation on profit, different types of provision, valuation of
assets, and investments.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 12
(b) Specialized Accounting II
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting IV
This course deals with the specific problems of partnerships,
legal and accounting implications of the liquidation of enter-
prises, estates, fund accounting. Other subjects covered:
deposits, installment sales, foreign currency.
(c) Theory of Auditing
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting IV
The-oretical study of auditing with special emphasis on internal
audits and analyses performed by public auditors. Other subjects
covered are: the role of the auditor, professional ethics,
auditing programs, the auditor's report, statistical sampling and
internal auditing.
(d) Auditing Methods
Prerequisite: Theory of Auditing
Practical application of the theory of auditing. Principles,
procedures and techniques of auditing applicable to each item of the
balance sheet and the income statement; auditing programs and the
preparation of internal control questionnaires; the importance of
working papers that clearly reflect the results of sampling and the
company s books.
(e) Cost Accounting III
Prerequisite: Cost Accounting II
Analysis of sales and cost of sales. Fixed and flexible budgets.
Accounting cycle of standard costs with calculation, interpretation
and accounting of differences between standard and real costs.
(f) Cost Accounting IV
Prerequisite: Cost Accounting II
Relationship between prices, volume and profit. Rational selection
of projects for implementation. Marginal cost. Long-term planning
of disbursements.



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 12
(g) Descriptive Statistics
Analysis of data, frequency distribution, measures of central trend
and measures of dispersion. Quartiles. Histograms and ogives.
Elementary probabilities. Binomial distribution and Poisson dis-
tribution. Normal distribution and applications. Student-s dis-
tribution. Sampling. Estimation theory. Theory of tests: tests
of the mean, proportion, etc. Chi-square test. Regression and
correlation. Other subjects may be covered as necessary.
(h) Accounting Theory II
Prerequisite: Financial Accounting IV
Critical discussion of such balance sheet and expense items as
inventories and cost of goods sold, fixed assets and depreciation,
other assets, etc. Also special items, valuation of assets,
liabilities and capital stock, and accurate and complete
presentation of financial statements.
(i) International Finance and Economic Relations
Prerequisite: Principles of Economics (macro); Principles of
Economics (micro).
General equilibrium and the role of international trade. Balance
of payments and capital movements. Development of international
trade and trade policy. Exchange rates. International financial
institutions (International Monetary Fund, World Bank, etc.) and
mechanisms for the financing of international trade. Eurodollars
and petrodollars.
Multinationals: Direct foreign investment and operations on inter-
national financial markets, their sources of financing, control of
multinationals, etc.
-'     -     (j)  Economic Systems and Structures
Prerequisite: Principles of Economics (macro); Principles of
Economics (micro)
Description of different economic systems and structures. Models
of modern capitalism, socialism, Marxist economies. Structure of
a socialist system, Soviet Russia. Liberal socialism. Economics of
social welfare. The economic system and international trade.
Problems of a market economy with normative planning.



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 12
Fifth Year
(a) Seminar in Accounting Theory
Prerequisite: Accounting Theory
Seminar in accounting theory aimed at developing a critical attitude
in the student and a methodical questioning of the various aspects
of accounting. The following subjects are among those discussed:
accounting of human resources, forecast accounting, etc.
(b) Seminar in Accounting
Content to be determined by the professor. (Numerous case studies.)
(c) Management Accounting
This course is directed toward business planning and control with
the aid of accounting. Results will be evaluated in terms of
budgets and decisions to be taken. Great importance is attached
to the analysis of costs and the use of accounting data in
management decision-making.
(d) Auditing and the Computer (Review)
Prerequisite: Programming Applied to Business
Integrated system of cards, magnetic tape and magnetic disks.
Internal control of mechanized accounting systems and procedure to
be followed for auditing (course intended for students interested
in public auditing).
(e) Data Processing and Programming
Study of data processing and introduction to an advanced programming
language. Work on a computer, oriented toward commercial applica-
tions.
(f) Management of Data Processing Systems
Prerequisite: Programming Applied to Business
This course prepares the student to make a better evaluation of the
use of computers in data processing systems, taking into account
the following aspects: benefits, costs, flexibility and other
factors. Numerous case studies.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 12
(g)  Seminar in Data Processing
Analysis and structure of data. Evaluation of information generated
by the computer. Application, laboratory work, presentation of
projects, etc.
(h)  Research Administration and Techniques
Use of scientific methods in the study of business problems.
Analysis of the advantages and limitations of various research
techniques. Development and administration of research programs.
(i)  Research Project
Research on a specific topic to afford a deeper knowledge of an
academic subject or to explore a new field. All student projects
will be supervised and evaluated by an ad hoc committee.
RINDRA Training Component
5.11      It is necessary to train RINDRA's staff five years beyond the
expiration date (June 30, 1981) of its contract with PMM. A firm of consult-
ants would be employed to continue practical training of RINDRA-s staff. In
addition, the project component would aid RINDRA in expanding its audit
activity into banking and insurance, and in increasing its audit staff to a
minimum of 40.
5.12      For RINDRA's effective management and operation, a professionally
qualified Director-General and a firm of audit consultants would be employed
for six years and five years respectively. The Director-General should have
considerable experience in a comparable capacity in auditing firms and the
firm of consultants would be employed from FY 1982 through FY 1986.
Accounting Systems and Procedures
5.13      The project would make foreign currency available (against equiva-
lent local currency prepayment) to enable foreign consultants to be employed
by local firms which provide consultancy services in accounting systems and
procedures. Each approved consulting assignment would become a sub-project
and the Association would retain the right to monitor all subprojects (on a
spot check basis). Appropriate foreign consultant proposals would be sub-
mitted to the Association for approval before contracts are entered into.



- 44 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Outline of Proposed Legislative Measures
1.        Proposals for legislative measures would be based on a review of
the applicable laws of the Democratic Republic of Madagascar. They would
also require enterprises to provide periodic audited financial statements.
The accounting standards would be set out covering their preparation and
contents and an accounting classification code would take into consideration
the necessary linkage between commercial and national accounting. Auditing
requirements would be scheduled according to auditing capabilities available
in the country. Professional and ethical standards would be established. A
time table (para. 17) indicates how the new legislation would be implemented.
Review of Existing Laws
2.        A complete review of existing laws would be carried out as a first
step.
Contents of the Financial Statements
3.        Every enterprise should be required to keep proper books of account
and prepare, at the end of each financial year, financial statements includ-
ing a balance sheet, an income statement and a funds flow statement. The
balance sheet should give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
enterprise at a specified date, with respect to its assets and liabilities;
the income statement should give a true and fair view of all trading income
and expenditure of the enterprise and of its profit and loss during the
specified period; the funds flow statement should give a true and fair view
of all funds received and expended by the enterprise showing adequate details
of the sources of all sums received and of each category of expenditure.
4.        All assets and equity and liabilities should be classified under
headings appropriate to the companyIs business and summarized in the balance
sheet. Particulars necessary to disclose their general nature may be shown
in notes forming part of the accounts and:
(a) equity:
-   capital should be shown separately;
-   reserves and provisions should be properly classified;
-   grants should be shown separately.



- 45 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
(b) long term debt:
-   loans should be detailed separately showing the
borrowing terms of each major debt;
(c) assets:
-   fixed assets, current assets and other assets should be
separately identified;
-   the method used to arrive at the amount of the fixed
assets under each heading should be stated; the value
of net fixed assets should be the difference between
cost, or valuation, and depreciation;
-   investments and goodwill should be under separate
headings;
-   method of valuation of inventory goods should be
stated;
-   provision for current assets should be estimated,
if their value on realization is not equal to
the stated value;
-   the basis of conversion of foreign currencies
should be set out;
-   the nature and amount of contingent liabilities
should be shown.
5.        All revenues and charges should be classified under headings
appropriate to the company-s business and summarized in the income state-
ments. The following should be specifically shown:
-    the method by which the turnover (sales) stated
is arrived at;
-    the method of depreciation of fixed assets;
-    the basis on which the charges for income tax and
other taxes are computed;
6.        All sources and applications of funds should be properly classified
in the funds flow statement, under the broad categories of internal generation
of funds, external financing, long term construction, long term investments,
debt service and dividends, changes in working capital.



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
Accounting Standards and Classification Code
7.        Accounting standards are essential to assure comparability of
accounting information of different enterprises as well as of the same enter-
prise for different periods. Accounting standards and uniform account classi-
fication codes are essential in Madagascar, where planning is centralized.
Uniformly presented accounting information would be easier to consolidate into
sectoral, regional and national statistics, and these statistics can then be
used for planning at different levels.
8.        For the above reasons, an accounting classification code was pro-
mulgated in Madagascar under a decree No. 69 002 of January 7, 1969. Since
no guidelines were established for use of the code, it could not be effect-
ively implemented, with the result that the Government and other interested
agencies cannot obtain financial information they need for planning.
9.        To correct that situation, it is necessary to devise a system by
which commercial enterprises can provide necessary microeconomic information
required by the Government and other agencies. To achieve this aim it would
be essential to:
(a) prepare a new accounting classification code which
would provide for the different characteristics and
needs of each sector;
(b) prepare procedures and methods to collect information
so compiled by enterprises, analyze and classify it
for each sector and region and consolidate it on a
national basis; and
(c) prepare guidelines for enterprises for presenting
accounts to fulfill the above requirements and
accounting standards and uniform practices to be
employed in doing so.
10.       The aim is that a single set of standardized documents be required
each year from each enterprise by a single Government agency which would then
analyze, classify and consolidate the information and publish it. The enter-
prises as well as the Government would benefit from availability of consoli-
dated accounts and statistics.
Date at which the financial statements should be available
11.       The standardized balance sheet, income statement and funds flow
statement of all enterprises governed by the Charter of Socialist Enterprises
or the Company law for private enterprises, and the auditor-s report when
required, should be available within six months after the end of the finan-
cial year of those enterprises.
Auditing
12.       The accounts of all enterprises should be audited, but this can
only be implemented progressively when the auditing capabilities of the



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
country are adequate to perform the necessary services. The auditors would
submit a written report to the Orientation Council of Socialist enterprises
or to the shareholders of private sector companies. In this report the
auditors should state whether the 3~alance Sheet, the Income Statement and
the Funds Flow Statement of the audited enterprise have been p.operl, prepared
on a consistent basis, and in accordance with specified standards and whether
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the enterprises, of
its profit and loss, of its movement of funds, and whether proper accounting
and internal control procedures are followed. They should also certify
that the enterprise maintains proper books of account and that its financial
statements are in agreement with those books.
13.       The implementation of auditing should start with the largest enter-
prises, which are already subject to the Charter of Socialist enterprises
or are planned to be in the near future. Auditing would then be introduced
where the size of the enterprise justifies it.
Accounting Profession
14.       Laws concerning the "Ordre des Experts - comptables et comptables
agrees" should be reviewed and minimum qualifications of persons authorized
to act as auditors should be prescribed.
15.       Professionally qualified accountants and auditors, as a group (such
as the Ordre above), should be required to keep the accounting and auditing
standards under review and issue recommendations which should be followed by
the auditors and accountants, within the framework of a Committee with
representatives of the Government and of the profession (Conseil superieur de
comptabilite et de gestion).
16.       The professional association, the Ordre, should be authorized to
investigate departures by individual auditors from the minimum standards
recommended by it and penalize, suspend and otherwise discipline its members.
Timetable of Legislative Implementation
17.       October 1, 1981
Establishment of a Committee that would be in charge of drafting
proposals for legislation concerning:
- applicable laws of the Democratic Republic of Madagascar
- accounting and audit organization
- organization of the Accounting Profession
April 30, 1982
Submission of proposals for legislative measures to the
Government and the Association
July 31, 1982 (tentative date)
Enactment of legislation



- 48 -
ANNEX 7
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(thousands of US Dollars)
Cumulative
Disbursements    Undisbursed
IDA Fiscal Year                       Quarterly          at end of         at end of
and Quarter                        Disbursements         quarter           quarter
FY 1982
December 31, 1981                         600                600             10,900
March 31, 1982                            200                800              10,700
June 30, 1982                             400              1,200             10,300
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                        500              1,700               9,800
December 31, 1982                         500              2,200               9,300
March 31, 1983                            500              2,700               8,800
June 30, 1983                             500              3,200               8,300
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                        500             3,700               7,800
December 31, 1983                         600              4,300               7,200
March 31, 1984                            600              4,900               6,600
June 30, 1984                             600              5,500               6,000
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                        600             6,100               5,400
December 31, 1984                         600              6,700              4,800
March 31, 1985                            500              7,200               4,300
June 30, 1985                             500              7,700               3,800
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                        500             8,200               3,300
December 31, 1985                         500              8,700               2,800
March 31, 1986                            500              9,200               2,300
June 30, 1986                             500              9,700               1,800
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                        400            10,100               1,400
December 31, 1986                         400            10,500                1,000
March 31, 1987                            400             10,900                 600
June 30, 1987                             300             11,200                 300
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                        300            11,500



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project Monitoring
7.1  CFC
Appointment of:
1 CFC Director                             September 1, 1981
2 qualified teachers                       March 1, 1982
2 teaching assistants                      March 1, 1982
2 qualified teachers                       March 1, 1983
2 teaching assistants                      March 1, 1983
1 regular technical staff                  March 1, 1984
1 regular technical staff                  March 1, 1985
Start of:
daytime classes for year 1                 May 1, 1982
evening classes for year 1                 May 1, 1983
daytime classes for year 2                 May 1, 1983
daytime classes for year 3                 May 1, 1984
daytime classes for year 4                 May 1, 1985
daytime classes for year 5                 May 1, 1986
7.2 RINDRA
Appointment of:
-    Director-General                            September 1, 1981
-    Consulting firm                            October 1, 1981
Billing hours; year ending June 30:
1982                         40,000
1983                         45,000
1984                         50,000
1985                         50,000
1986                         50,000



- 50 -
ANNEX 9
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
RINDRA - Balance Sheets as of June 30. 1980-1989
(FMG Million)
Audited                               Projected
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
ASSETS
Fixed Assets - Revalued            40.57   48.22   66.06   76.01   87.35  100.21  116.23  135.69  159.90  189.29
Less Depreciation                   4.89    9.77   16.36   24.94   35.35   47.91   63.04   81.31  103.41  130.18
Net Fixed Assets                   35.68   38.45   49.70   51.07   52.00   52.30   53.19   54.38   56.49   59.11
Unamortized Technical
Assistance Cost                     -       -    124.69  251.25  349.16  335.01  233.37  124.68   47.36   12.14
Deposits                            1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37
Current Assets
Cash and Bank                  100.77    5.57    6.96    8.85   11.40   18.09   10.74   16.86   15.80   21.72
Accounts Receivable              89.41  100.00  104.00  100.00  120.00  140.0o  150.00  170.00  190.00  210.00
Other                           85.63   75.00   65.oo   65.oo   65.oo   65.oo   65.00   65.oo   65.oo   65.00
Total Current Assets         275.81  180.57  175.96  173.85  196.40  223.09  225.74  251.86  270.80  296.72
312.86  220.39  351.72  477.54  598.93  611.77  513.67  432.29  376.02  369.34
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                          50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00   50.00
Retained Earnings             -218.62 -499.80 -431.51 -441.05 -452.03 -484.23 -511.72 -485.96 -377.12 -182.88
Revaluation Reserves               -      3.21    6.67   11.14   15.74   20.42   25.13   29.91   34.80   39.88
Total Equity                -168.62 -446.59 -374.84 -379.91 -386.29 -413.81 -436.59 -406.05 -292.32  -93.00
Loan from Government
(IDA Credit Onlent)                -        -    155.86  353.02  563.66  666.88  611.56  499.64  379.64  189.64
Advance from Government           2J2.00  212.00  212.00  212.00  212.00  212.30  212.00  212.00  21a2.00  212.00
Deposits                            0.70    0.70    0.70    0.70    0.70    0.70    0.70    0.70    0.70    0.70
Current Liabilities               268.78  454.28  358.00  291.73  208.86  126.00  126.00  126.00   76.0o   60.00
312.86  220.39  351.72  477.54  598.93  611.77  513.67  432.2 3 76.02   369.34
Current Ratio                      1.0      0.4     0.5     o.6      0.9     1.8     1.8     2.0      3.6     4.9
1/ After 21 months of operations



- 51 -
ANNEX 10
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTINiG AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
RINDRA - Income Statement for the YearsEnding June 30, 1980-1989
Audited -                                        Projected
1980            1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Average nunber of audit staff            17              26        32       36      40       40       40      40       40       40
Billing hours - thousands                31              21        40      45       50       50       50      50       50       50
Average fees-thousand FMG per hour
-       In December 1980 Prices                                       7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00
In Current Prices                  9.29              9.50    7.80    8.70    9.80   11.00   12.30   13.80   15.50   17.30
(FMG Million)
Revenue                             288.01            199.50  312.00  391.50  490.00  550.00  615.00  690.00  775.00  865.00
Operating Expenses
Salaries and allowanceas          66.35            83.20  132.00  210.00  233.00  259.00  300.00  351.00  392.oo  440.oo
Administration and other          52.91             47.48   54.19   64.97   72.33   93.76  109.31  128.06  144.08  161.38
PMM fees and expenses            387.37           350.00           -       -        -        -            -       -        -
Technical aseistance cost3          -                 -     48.17   95.54  140.65  154.41  155.28  118.51   77.32   35.22
506.63           480.68  234.36  370.51  445.98  507.17  564.59  597.57  613.40  636.60
Operating Income                   -218.62           -281.18   77.64   20.99   44.02   42.83   50.41   92.43  161.60  228.40
Interest on Loan                   __-                          9.35   30.53   55.00   75.03   77.90   66.67   52.76   34.16
Net Income                         -218.62          -281.18   68.29   -9.54  -10.98  -32.20  -27.49   25.76  108.84  194.24
1/   After 21 months of operation
2/ Salaries and allowances are in respect of Malagasy staff only
3/  Technical assistance costs from FY1982 are amortized over five years.  These costs before the project implementation
period were not to be amortized by RINDRA.



- 52 -
ANNEX 11
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
RINDRA - Funds Flow Statement for Years Ending June 30, 1981-1989
Projected
1981      1982      1983       1984      1985       1986      1987      1988      1989
Sources of Funds
Internal sources
N1et operating income             -281.18     77.64      20.99     44.02      42.83     50.41     92.43    161.60   228.40
Add Back: Depreciation               4.44      5.71       7.10      8.17       9.38     10.82     12.59      14.78    17.46
Amortized technical
assistance cost             -       31.17     70.60    112.73    137.37    146.32    116.7         77.32    35.22
Total Internal Generation         -276.74    114.52      98.69    164.92    189.58    207.55    221.79    253.70   281.08
IDA Credit Onlent                    _       155.86    197.16    210.64    123.22       44.68      8.08        -        -
Total Sources                   -276.74    270.38    295.85    375.56    312.80    252.23    229.87    253.70   281.08
Application of Funds
Additions to fixed assets              4.co     13.50       4.05      4.50       5?00      7.00       9.00     12.00    15.00
Technical assistance payments
in foreign exchange                     -      155.86    197.16    210.64    123.22       44.68      8.o8        -        -
Repayment of Government Loan            -         -          -         -          -      120.00    120.00    120.00   190.00
Interest                                -        9.35      30.53     55.00     75.03      77.90     66.67      52.76    34.16
Total Application                    4.00    178.71    231.69    270.14    203.25    249.58    203.75    184.76   239.16
Increase in Working Capital
Cash                                 -95.20      1.39       1.89      2.55       6.69    -7.35       6.12      -1.06     5.92
Accounts receivable                   10.59      4.00      -4.oo     20.00      20.00    10.00      20.00      20.00    20.00
Other                               -196.13     86.28      66.27     82.87      82.86      -          -        50.00    16.00
Total Increase                    -280.74     91.67      64.16    105.42    109.55      2.65      26.12      68.94    41.92
Cumulative Cash Balance                  5.57      6.96       8.85     11.40      18.09    10.74      16.86      15.80    21.72
Debt Service Coverage                     -       12.2        3.2       3.0        2.5       1.0       1.2        1.5      1.3



- 53 -
ANNEX 12
MADAGASkCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
RINDRA - Notes and Assujmptions for
the Financial Statements
1.        Fixed Assets
Fixed assets values have been increased 9% to reflect estimated
replacement costs. This weighted average rate is calculated on the assumption
that 60% of the cost of fixed assets is in foreign exchange and 40% in local
currency and price escalation applied at rates of 7% and 12% respectively.
2.        Unamortized Technical Assistance Cost
Technical assistance costs from FY 1982 payable in foreign exchange
have been amortized over five years, one-fifth annually in the year of payment
and in the succeeding four years. This treatment is to reflect the lasting
benefit of such services. PMM costs before the project implementation
period have not been amortized by RINDRA.
3.        Accounts Receivable
After FY1980 RINDRA is assumed to gradually improve its collection
of revenue, so that at the end of FY1981 its amounts receivable will be
equivalent to six months revenue declining to four months in FY1982 and three
months in FY1983 and subsequent years.
4.        Revenue and Operating Expenses
Billing revenue, number of hours billed and operating expenses
have been estimated in consultation with RINDRA and its consultants applying
appropriate price contingencies.
5.        Technical Assistance Costs
PMM's fees and expenses are based on its present contract. Use of
a consulting firm is assumed for future technical assistance to RINDRA at an
average fee equivalent to US$12,000 per man month in December 198o constant
prices plus travel, accommodation and transport charges.



- 54 -
ANNEX 13
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Documents related to RINDRA
A.1 Contract with Peat Marwick Mitchell and Co. (PMM), dated July 17,
1968, and annexed documents.
A.2 Detail of PMM's proposal of July 1978.
A.3 RINDRA's reports of activity for the periods:
-    May 25 to December 31, 1979
-    January to June 30, 1980
-    June 30 to December 31, 1981
A.4 Audit of RINDRA-s accounts as of June 30, 1980.
B.   Texts of Malagasy company laws and laws concerning accounting:
-    Charter of Socialist Enterprises of 1978
-    Company Law of 1867
-    Statutes of Magistrature of 1979   (statuts de la magistrature)
-    Miscellaneous laws, decrees, and ordinances related to
accounting



W2-                           ~~~~~~~4!4                                 4                                        4B'                                       510
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                                   ntteronana
-aPaved roads
All weather roads
Railways
-1-.    Airports                                                                                                                                      ohim-,n
Forests
-300 Contours in meters
14'                        Rivers                                                                                                                                                              14'
Prefecture boundaries                                                                                                                          srmb
Provincial boundaries
AIntaloha
o      so            l~~     ~     ~~~os  ISO
MILES                                             Mohapngq
o       so        so       IF      200      25,0
CtLOMETeERS               
Penarivo Atstnona
Cbanire/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 +Atooe,~ ~ ~~~ooosn
c a  rin c,                                                /                                                                                              q     \%n  -/   D   A} A i
Mr- rond
Ie,ianse  h~  2Y- (                                                                                                                  h.  b0ph,h-dbytAt.
1  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W, _  s/j aopen frdattk' otaff etotoninelyfo
tle q,O s  to h ttth,.thed
Ted--;-o5a,a-  -od-ad th.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oat ,ttAn tepatoftniy)   --'   . r
ro   ~~~~~~~~ <  _  -  Taolunuro * = , !; . J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,s,deae o i,OOitO. n
rbolobe.   t,         tttt h op_
42   44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t- acetac of toolt Itanate
_l  I  I-y  -  Iy          -
20~~~~~~~
10                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADAGASCAR ~
4,2                                     414                                       46                                       48' 



