Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE  COPY                          Report No. P-2903-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION
AND TRAINING PROJECT
May 13, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980                     January 1981
Unit          =    Malagasy Franc (FMG)                Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00       =    FMG 212.72                  =       FMG 209.98
FMG 1,000           US$4.70                    =       US$4.76
FMG 1,000,000 =    US$4,701                    -       US$4,762
(The cost estimates are based on US$1 = FMG 200)
ABBREVIATIONS
CFC     - Centre de Formation en Comptabilite
Charter - Charter of Socialist Enterprises
CSR     - Supreme Council of the Revolution
CUR     - University Regional Center, University of Madagascar
INPF    - Institut National de Promotion - Formation
RINDRA  - Malagasy National Audit Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (Government)
July 1    - June 30      (RINDRA)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:   Centre de Formation en Comptabilite (CFC) (Accounting
Training Center); Malagasy National Audit Company (RINDRA);
and Malagasy Management Consulting Firms.
Amount:           SDR 9.4 million (US$11.5 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Relending Terms: SDR 3.0 million (US$3.7 million equivalent) would be relent
to RINDRA at an interest rate of 12 percent, with repayment
over 10 years including three years of grace.
Project           (i)  Objective:  The project would assist the Government to
Description:          establish an appropriate instructional program to
provide qualified professionals in accounting and
auditing; to provide to industry management consulting
and audit services through existing national companies;
and to create a suitable legislative framework for the
sector.
(ii)  Main Project Components:  The project components are:
(a) Preparation of appropriate legislation, which would
require enterprises to prepare audited accounts in
accordance with specified standards under a national
accounting code (20 man-months);
(b) Establishment and operation of an accounting
training center, to be called Centre de Formation
en Comptabilite (CFC) and the provision of books,
supplies, equipment, etc. (279 man-months);
(c) Training and supervisory services to assist
the Malagasy National Audit Company (RINDRA)
(156 man-months); and
(d) Training and technical assistance for Malagasy
management consulting firms, and a feasibility
study for the establishment of a public management
consulting firm (65 man-months);
(iii)  Benefits:  The project would provide the legal basis
for requiring commercial enterprises to prepare accounts
and financial reports in accordance with specific
accounting and auditing standards, and help redress
the shortage of skilled accountants, auditors and
specialists in financial systems and procedures that
persists due to the lack of adequate teaching and train-
ing facilities for professionally-qualified persons.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iv)  Risks:  The physical risks of the project are negligible,
but enactment of appropriate legislation and timely
appointment of technical assistance and training staff
are important. Delays would be minimized by requiring
that CFC-s Director and RINDRA's Director General
be appointed before the credit be declared effective.
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
…Us US$…000s -----
Components
A:  Legislation Review                          0.1        0.3        0.4
B:  Centre de Formation en Comptabilite (CFC) 2.3          2.2        4.5
C:  National Audit Company (RINDRA)             0.3        2.8        3.1
D:  Malagasy Management Consulting Firms        0.2        1.0        1.2
Baseline Costs                           2.9        6.3       9.2
Physical Contingencies                          0.3        0.6        0.9
Price Contingencies                             1.9        2.2        4.1
Total Contingencies                      2.2        2.8       5.0
Total Project Costs                             5.1        9.1       14.2
(No custom duties or taxes
applicable)
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                      2.4        9.1       11.5
Government, RINDRA and
private Local Enterprises                     2.7          -       2.7
Total                                           5.1        9.1       14.2
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY       FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
---------------------    USs$…000 -   -   -    -   -
Annual                        1.2      2.0     2.3      2.2     2.0      1.5     0.3
Cumulative                    1.2      3.2     5.5      7.7     9.7    11.2    11.5
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3151-MAG, April 30, 1981
Map:                 IBRD 14160



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equiva-
lent of SDR 9.4 million (US$11.5 million) on standard IDA terms to help
finance an Accounting and Audit Organization and Training Project to be
implemented under the direction of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce and
the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research. The Government
would relend SDR 3.0 million (US$3.7 million) of the Credit to the Malagasy
National Audit Company (RINDRA) at an interest rate of 12 percent per anuum,
with repayment over 10 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Madagascar - Recent Economic Developments and
Future Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 24,
1979. Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1 to this report. An eco-
nomic mission visited Madagascar in August 1980 and is currently preparing
its report. Its findings are included in the summary of recent economic
developments below.
3.        With a population of 8.5 million and a per capita GNP about US$290
in 1979, Madagascar is among the poorest countries in the world. It is
estimated that about 50 percent of the population subsists below the absolute
poverty level. Less than 20 percent of the population lives in urban areas
and about 85 percent of the national labor force is engaged in agricultural
activity. Although the country is sparsely populated (about 14 persons per
sq. km) and generally well endowed with natural resources and a variety of
soils, there are considerable regional variations in ecology and climate. The
highlands are more advanced economically than the coastal regions; the south
is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils and the east
coast, which is rich agriculturally, is frequently devastated by cyclones.
Poor road communications are a major impediment to development both in terms
of domestic commerce and the transport of export and import goods to and from
the major seaports.
4.        The long-term trend of sluggish and erratic GDP growth, which failed
to keep pace with population expansion, continued up to 1978. Owing largely to
prolonged drought conditions, real GDP declined by about 3.5 percent in 1976,
increased by about 2 percent in 1977, and declined again by about 2.5 percent
in 1978. In 1978, real per capita GDP was about 20 percent below its 1970
level. With improved weather conditions and stimulated by a sharp increase in
investment, real GDP in 1979 grew by more than 10 percent. The rapid growth



- 2 -
in 1979 reflected a significant shift in the thrust of offical policy to a
more vigorous public investment effort and to a much greater dependence on
external sources for its financing. The share of investment in GDP, which had
been around 14 percent since the early 1970's, rose sharply to about 22 percent
in 1979. The increased investment thrust and its attendant import needs
coincided with sluggish exports and a deterioration in the terms of trade, so
that Madagascar's balance of payments position deteriorated sharply in 1979.
With general government and state enterprises accounting for virtually all of
the investment expenditures, there was a very rapid increase in budgeted
capital expenditures in 1979 and a dramatic increase in the budget deficit.
Preliminary information for 1980 indicates a further rapid growth of govern-
ment investment expenditures, with the consequence that the overall budget
deficit rose to the equivalent of about 19 percent of GDP. Owing mainly to
continued deterioration in the terms of trade, the current deficit on balance
of payments also increased in 1980 to a provisionally estimated level of about
$450 million equivalent to about 18 percent of GDP. Although detailed produc-
tion data is still not available, the level of economic activity appears to
have dropped sharply in 1980.
5.        The serious deterioration in Madagascar's economic and financial
situation which occurred in 1979 and 1980 has created serious strains in
Madagascar's external payments in 1980 and 1981. Furthermore, the Govern-
ment's heavy recourse to Central Bank borrowing to finance the budget deficits
has given rise to increasing inflationary pressures. Hence, the Government
has been confronted with the need to take strong corrective actions to restore
balance of payments and budgetary equilibrium. The undertaking of these
measures will limit the possibilities for rapid economic expansion, but if the
necessary short-term measures are accompanied by efforts to correct a number
of basic weaknesses in the country's production, export and resource use
performance, a more secure base for economic development can be attained.
6.        Agricultural output, which had generally shown little growth in
recent years, increased in 1979 with an overall volume growth of around 7
percent. Production of the main cash and export crops (coffee, cloves and
vanilla) all increased in 1979. Coffee production, which had declined sharply
in 1976 and 1977 mainly due to weather, increased by about 14 percent in 1978
and by about 5 percent in 1979 to just below its pre-1976 level. Production
of cloves increased sharply in 1979, but with falling world prices, export
receipts declined. Vanilla production, which has been seriously affected by
competition from synthetic substitutes, increased by about 75 percent in 1979
but was only about a third of the production level of the mid 1970's. Rice,
Madagascar's main food crop, showed a 6 percent production increase in 1979
to just over 2 million tons but was still below its 1977 level of 2.15 million
tons. Rice production has fallen below domestic demand in recent years and
this, together with serious transport problems impeding the domestic shipment
of rice, has resulted in a growing volume of rice imports. The volume of rice
imports is estimated to have increased by about 30 percent in 1979, reaching a
level of 210,000 tons compared to an import of some 64,000 tons in 1975. In
1979, rice imports accounted for about 9 percent of the value of total
merchandise imports.



- 3 -
7.        Industrial growth has been slow and erratic.  Within the manu-
facturing sector itself performance has, however, varied. The output of
processed foods and textiles followed a stagnant or a declining trend although
these commodities still account for about 70 percent of manufacturing output.
Among other minor industries such as chemicals, tobacco manufactures, rubber
and paper products, a fairly steady growth has been maintained. Development
of the sector has been encouraged by promotional measures such as fiscal
incentives, protection against competition from imports and growing involve-
ment of the state in ownership and control of manufacturing. Industrial
production now accounts for about 19 percent of GDP.
8.        Madagascar's fiscal situation has deteriorated since 1978, due
to sharply rising current expenditures and increased Government spending on
capital investment. The current budget surplus, which used to be substantial,
turned to a deficit as revenues failed to keep pace with the growth of
expenditures. Furthermore, as Government intensified its efforts to raise
investment levels and stimulate the economy, public investment expenditure
rose from 13.1 billion FMG in 1975 to 58 billion FMG (US$273 million) in 1979.
Outlays on the consumer rice subsidy increased from about 4 billion FMG
in 1975 to nearly 10 billion FMG (US$47 million) in 1979 and to about 12
million FMG in 1980. The overall Treasury deficit increased dramatically in
1979 to about 14 percent of GDP. Preliminary information for 1980 indicates
that, although government current expenditures grew at a moderate rate (about
2 percent), there was a further rapid increase in government capital expendi-
tures of around 60 percent. While borrowing from external sources was greatly
expanded in both 1979 and 1980, the budget deficits were financed principally
by borrowing from the Central Bank, which provided about two thirds of the
financing of the 1980 deficit.
9.        Monetary and credit developments over recent years largely reflect
the government's deficit financing needs. Domestic credit increased from
about 102 billion FMG (US$427 million) at end 1976 to about 230 billion FMG
(US$1,080 million) at end 1979. Most of this expansion was accounted for by
Government borrowing from the Central Bank, whose share of domestic credit
rose from about 20 percent in 1976 to about 43 percent in 1979. Despite a
significant reduction in net foreign assets, money supply grew by over 20
percent per annum during the 1976-1979 period i.e. at almost twice the rate of
growth of nominal GDP over the same period, Government borrowing from the
Central Bank increased further in 1980, its share in domestic credit using
to 50 percent, and many supply increased by about 18 percent. Available price
information for Madagascar is fragmentary. There is a wide-ranging system of
controlled prices which appears to have become inoperative with most goods
selling at prices well above control levels. A price index for low income
families shows an acceleration of price increases to about 14 percent in 1979
compared to an annual increase of around 7 percent for the two or three
preceeding years. Preliminary information for 1980 indicates a further
acceleraton in the general price increase to about 20 percent.



-4-
10.       Madagascar s balance of payments position, which has been funda-
mentally weak over recent years, showed a significant deterioration in 1979.
Trade surpluses in 1976 and 1977 were due to a low level of imports and to
higher world export prices, particularly for coffee, since the volume of
exports remained stagnant throughout the period. Falling export prices
and a rising import volume eliminated the trade surplus in 1978 when the
current deficit reached about US$82 million compared to about US$18 million in
1977. The volume of total merchandise imports increased rapidly in 1979, and
with rising import prices (9 percent increase in 1978-79), the import bill
increased by about 55 percent. The volume of exports declined in 1979 and
with sluggish world prices, export receipts declined by about 4 percent. The
current deficit reached about US$440 million in 1979, equivalent to about 18
percent of GDP. Preliminary information for 1980 indicates that the volume of
imports decreased by about 12 percent while the volume of exports fell by
about 7 percent. With a continued deterioration in the terms of trade, the
current account deficit increased to about US$515 million.
11.       The development of the Malagasy economy has been constrained over
many years by a number of basic weaknesses, e.g. low productivity in agricul-
ture, slow growth in major primary exports and inadequate domestic savings.
The sharp deterioration in Madagascar s economic and financial situation in
1979 and 1980 reflects these continuing problems. The significant shifts in
government policy through a greater openness to external finance and, also, in
pushing vigorously for a higher level of investment has been accompanied by
continued sluggish export performance and deterioration in the terms of trade.
The import bill has been swollen not only by imports of capital goods but also
by a growing import of consumer goods, especially rice, for which domestic
production and distribution weaknesses are a serious problem. The country is
well endowed with natural resources and has a relatively efficient administra-
tive structure. A more effective use of these resources will depend, however,
on a lasting correction to the serious imbalances which exist on both balance
of payments and government budget accounts.
12.       In June 1980, the Government concluded a Stand-by agreement with the
IMF which aimed to restore balance of payments and budgetary equilibrium.
Some of the individual policy measures indicated in this program were imple-
mented, e.g., the measures to increase government revenues, but efforts to
contain government expenditures were not successful. Government then revised
its expenditure and budgetary programs for 1981 and resumed negotiations with
the IMF for a new Stand-by agreement. This agreement was signed in April
1981. The program upon which the agreement is based includes a number of
far-reaching policy measures, e.g. phased reduction of external arrears, limit
on the contracting of new external debt, limits on imports and their restruc-
turing to productive uses, and strict limits on government domestic borrowing.
The implementation of such a program should substantially contribute to
correcting imbalances.
13.       These stabilization measures also need to be complemented by measures
to enhance the long-term viability of the economy. A Plan for the period
1981-86 is currently in preparation. The Plan envisages a much more vigorous
effort in export expansion and an action program for greater self sufficiency



in food production. It also envisages much greater decentralization in
economic management and decision-making. Administrative steps have already
been taken to strengthen regional economic planning. Priority is to be
attached to productive investment, and an increased share of investment in
agriculture and transport is contemplated. These efforts will require a
careful appraisal, selection and monitoring of investment projects, since
domestic savings and external resource availabilities are likely to be import-
ant constraints.
14.       With the shift in government policy to a greater reliance on foreign
financing, Madagascar's external public debt has increased substantially over
recent years. According to Central Bank estimates, total external debt at end
1979 amounted to about US$720 million, compared to about US$330 million at end
1976. There has been a greater diversification in sources of external
financing but average terms have hardened significantly. Consequently, the
debt service ratio has risen from around 3 percent in 1976 to over 15 percent
in 1980 and is likely to be around 30 percent in 1981 (not accounting for debt
reschedulings arranged after March 1981). Madagascar now faces a rising debt
servicing burden in the next few years. A meeting of the Paris Club to
consider a rescheduling of Madagascar's external debt took place on April
29-30, 1981.
15.       The World Bank group has provided about 45 percent of the conces-
sionary assistance which Madagascar received between 1975 and 1979. Over
the same period, however, around 40 percent of external public borrowing has
been from non-concessionary sources. Increased external financing on a
concessionary basis will be required to support the government's economic
restructuring and development efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to
service external debt. Given Madagascar's poverty and current resource
constraints, IDA should continue to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
16.       Outstanding IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$263.74 million
and Bank loans total US$31.41 million. About 54 percent of Bank Group lending
has been for transport, 14 percent for electric power, 24 percent for agricul-
ture and 8 percent for education. IFC's first investment was made in March
1977 with an equity investment of US$290,000 and a loan of US$11.0 million for
the expansion of a textile mill. In May 1980, IFC made a US$1.25 million
loan for the Bata shoe manufacturing company in Antananarivo, and other
projects in leather and ferrochrome are under consideration. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments
as of March 31, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.        Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on the
following key areas: infrastructure (including urban and social infrastruc-
ture), agriculture, energy and industry. In infrastructure, four projects
have been for the construction of all-weather highway links between the
island's different regions; a fifth highway project for road maintenance was



- 6 -
signed in July 1979. There has been a project for improving Madagascar's
main port of Toamasina (Tamatave) and one for modernizing the railway line
between Toamasina and Antananarivo; a second project supporting the railway's
modernization efforts was signed in June 1979. Urban infrastructure develop-
ment includes a first water supply and sanitation project for the capital
city of Antananarivo for which a US$20.5 million credit was approved in April
1980.  In the social sector, education has been the major recipient of Bank
assistance with two projects totaling US$18.8 million. In addition, studies
for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency
have started. Support for general industrial promotion is being provided
through a first credit of US$5.0 million for an industrial credit project
(BNI) approved by the Board in January 1980.
18.       Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of two livestock develop-
ment projects, three irrigation projects and a forestry project. The first
IDA-assisted agricultural credit project of US$11.5 million (BTM) was approved
by the Executive Directors in September 1980. A US$2.3 million credit for a
technical assistance project to study the Plain of Antananarivo area was
signed on January 31, 1981. In the future we expect agriculture to continue
to absorb a larger share of Bank Group lending, in line with Government
strategy to expand agricultural production. Negotiations of a proposed Second
Mangoro Forestry project have been substantially completed. A third livestock
project was recently appraised, while an agricultural services project, two
rural development projects, and a small-scale irrigation project are being
prepared.
19.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention:
IDA has provided financing for part of the cost of the large Andekaleka
hydroelectric project for a total of US$43 million. Substantial bilateral
assistance was also secured by the Government to meet the total cost of
the project estimated at about US$150 million. Furthermore, a petroleum
exploration promotion project signed in May 1980 provided a US$12.5 million
credit to the Government to support its efforts to develop a domestic supply
of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector. A second petroleum
exploration project is under preparation for further development of the
sector including financing of a feasibility study for heavy oil exploitation.
20.       In the past, problems have arisen in the course of execution of
several projects. There were delays, cost overruns and deficiencies in
management and institution building, especially in agriculture. The Morondava
irrigation project signed in 1973 had to be substantially reduced, and the
Government has prepared a plan of action to deal with the remaining institu-
tional problems. The Village Livestock project signed in 1974 has improved
substantially, although disbursements remain slow. On the other hand, the
Mangoro Forestry project is ahead of schedule, and cost estimates are in line
with forecasts. The first three highway projects have been completed. The
fourth project is still being implemented. The road construction component
of this project is nearly completed and the maintenance studies have been
completed; however, there has been a delay in the start of the recommended
highway maintenance training program for the Ministry of Public Works per-
sonnel. Since training of local staff is essential, the Government has agreed



- 7 -
that training consultants be employed and that construction of training
facilities would begin in the first half of 1981. Preparations for the start
of the fifth highway project are underway.
21.        Since the start of our program in Madagascar four projects, all of
which included technical assistance, have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. The audit report No. 1622 of December 17,
1976 on the Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally quite
successful. However, the performance of Somalac, the project implementation
agency, has deteriorated considerably since the completion of the project.
The audit report No. 1559 of April 11, 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development
Project concluded that the Project had contributed little to Madagascar. The
audit report No. 2143 of July 27, 1978 concluded that the Madagascar Third
Highway Project was well justified and had a good rate of return despite the
substantial cost overrun experienced by the project. The audit confirmed
that training of local staff and adequate provision of Government funds were
essential factors for a successful road maintenance program. Report No. 2299
of December 22, 1978 concluded that the physical objectives of the Tamatave
Port Project were satisfactorily achieved, but pointed out that the insti-
tutional objective was not accomplished during project implementation because
of inadequacies in the staffing of the port authority. With the exception of
the Port Project, the technical assistance components of all four projects were
executed satisfactorily.
PART III - THE ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT SECTOR IN MADAGASCAR
22.       Preparation by commercial enterprises of accurate, timely and
comprehensive accounts is essential for management control and planning.
Furthermore, reliable financial reports are essential for managers, investors,
creditors, and government agencies. Audit of those accounts and statements
by independent auditors is necessary to determine the reliability of the
accounting information supplied.
23.       Following independence in 1960, management positions in Malagasy
enterprises continued to be staffed mainly by French nationals, but in 1972 a
change in Government resulted in major policy changes and many French managers
and technicians started to leave the country. Most of those remaining left in
1975, following the nationalization of major foreign-owned enterprises, and
many enterprises thereby lost their senior managers and accountants. Although
the accounting departments of those enterprises continued to be staffed by
well-trained junior and middle level Malagasy staff, the senior and top
managerial accounting positions were filled in most cases by civil servants
without knowledge of commercial accounting and by inadequately qualified
accountants from the private sector.
24.       Since the early 1970s the accounting profession has stagnated in
Madagascar. A professional association, the "Ordre des Experts Comptables et
des Comptables Agrees" (Order of Accountants), created in October, 1962, still
has only 36 members. No additional accountants have qualified for membership



- 8 -
since 1971, largely because the educational and training facilities for the
academic achievement required are not available in Madagascar. Apart from
this group there are 40 other Malagasy accountants with overseas accounting
qualifications, the majority of whom are employed in commercial organizations.
Degrees in accounting are not offered at the University of Madagascar or by
any other school. The elementary level accounting courses offered by the
University, the Chamber of Commerce, and private commercial schools are a part
of economics or management degree or diploma programs. Other constraints in
the education and training of senior-level accountants and auditors are the
lack of qualified teachers and advanced level textbooks on accountancy and
related subjects.
25.       In addition, development of the accounting profession has stalled
in Madagascar because existing legislative and other provisions governing
audit and financial reporting are outdated, and do not specify accounting
and auditing standards to be met by commercial enterprises and auditors.
The 1867 law relating to limited liability companies only requires that
financial statements be submitted to shareholders after they are reviewed by a
government auditor whose qualifications are specified by the Board of Directors.
Neither the content of the financial statements, nor the extent to which the
investigation should be carried out is specified by law, and so the review of
companies' accounts is often superficial. The 1925 law relating to limited
liability partnerships is similarly undemanding. At present, the only effec-
tive government requirement for financial statements comes from the income tax
department, which demands accounts in support of tax returns from companies
with annual sales of more than about US$150,000.
26.       Similarly, in the field of consulting services for financial systems
and procedures, Malagasy firms lack an adequate number of professionals with
accounting and auditing skills. Most of these firms have limited capacity,
and are generally linked with or rely on assistance of expatriate personnel or
foreign management consulting and audit firms, whose availability, however, is
increasingly restricted by Madagascar's growing foreign exchange constraints.
Although the quality of Malagasy consultancy services is generally satis-
factory, their continued dependence on outside assistance indicates a need for
training and technical assistance in financial systems and procedures.
27.       To exercise effective control over and ensure coordinated planning
for nationalized companies, the Government enacted in May 1978 a Charter of
Socialist Enterprises. This Charter will, in principle, be applied to all
enterprises in which the state owns directly or indirectly 51 percent or more
of the equity capital. Each economic sector will eventually have its own
"Orientation Council" which will oversee and coordinate planning of all
socialist enterprises in that sector. Auditors will be appointed by the
"Orientation Council" and commercial enterprises will be required to submit an
annual report. The duties assigned to auditors are broad in scope, and
include a report on management's performance and whether the enterprise has
met its objectives. These measures, particularly those relating to auditing,
will necessitate a rapid improvement in the quantity and quality of accounting
and audit information.



- 9 -
28.       The Government recognizes the importance of timely reporting
of comprehensive and reliable accounts by commercial enterprises for effec-
tive financial control and has clearly expressed in the Charter its inten-
tion to improve quality and reliability of financial reporting. Such
improvement would help ensure efficient planning and greater management and
operational control which are particularly essential in the socialist environ-
ment of Madagascar where major commercial enterprises are in the public
sector, and operations, planning and control functions are to be performed
on a professional and centralized basis. To help achieve these aims, the
Government established in April 1979 the first national accounting and audit
company, called RINDRA.
29.       As a Socialist Enterprise, RINDRA would be responsible to one
of the "Orientation Councils", but RINDRA's corporate statute provides that
RINDRA solely is responsible for the contents of its reports which are to be
prepared "freely and independently" in accordance with the rules governing
the profession. While the Government does not intend that RINDRA have a
monopoly, RINDRA's charter provides that it has preference over other Malagasy
and foreign audit firms with respect to "socialist enterprises", i.e. those
formed under the provisions of the Charter. It is expected that once the
Charter is fully applied and audit of enterprises both in the public and
private sectors becomes a statutory requirement (at present only a limited
number of companies are being audited), up to 150 government-controlled
enterprises and about 350 private sector enterprises with sales over US$150,000
per year will be subject to having their accounts audited by RINDRA or its
competitors. This compares with a present capacity of existing auditors with
acceptable levels of competence to audit about 45 to 50 enterprises.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       In mid-1978 the Government requested IDA assistance in developing
the commercial accounting and auditing sector in Madagascar. The proposed
project, which was appraised in June 1980, would be IDA-s first accounting and
audit sector operation in Madagascar. A Staff Appraisal Report, No. 3151-MAG,
dated May 11, 1981, is being circulated separately. Credit negotiations
were held in Washington from April 6 - 14, 1981. The Malagasy Delegation was
headed by Mr. Rabearivelo, Technical Advisor to the President, and included
Mr. Razafindrakoto, Director at the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. A
credit and project summary appears at the beginning of this Report, and a
supplementary project data sheet is given in Annex III. A map of Madagascar
(IBRD 14160) is attached.
Objectives
31.       The primary objectives of the project are to develop a suitable
legislative framework for the sector and upgrade the current level of expertise
of the accounting and auditing profession to help develop efficient management,
planning, and financial control of Malagasy commercial enterprises. The pro-
posed project provides for the development and strengthening of related educa-
tional, training and professional institutions.



- 10 -
Project Description
32.       Specifically, the project would consist of the following four
components:
A -  Preparation of appropriate legislation, which would require
enterprises to prepare audited accounts in accordance with
specified standards under a national accounting code
(20 man-months);
B -  Establishment and operation of an accounting training
center called Centre de Formation en Comptabilite (CFC)
in Antananarivo and the provision of books, course materials,
supplies, services and equipment, required for CFC's opera-
tions for six years;
C -  Training and supervisory services for the development of
the national audit company, RINDRA;
D -  Training and technical assistance to upgrade the expertise
of local management consulting firms in accounting systems
and procedures, and a feasibility study for the establish-
ment of a public management consulting firm.
Project Costs
33.       Total project costs are estimated at US$14.2 million including a
foreign exchange component of US$9.1 million or about 64 percent of total
project costs. A detailed cost table is given in the credit and project
summary. Consultant man-month costs (excluding local travel and transport)
for the legislation review and assistance to RINDRA has been estimated at
US$15,200. The cost figures are consistent with actual costs for consultants
currently employed in Madagascar.
Financing Plan
34.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 9.4 million (US$11.5 million equiva-
lent), would finance 100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange component
and US$2.4 million in local costs, or together 81 percent of total project
costs. The balance of US$2.7 million, or 19 percent of total project costs,
would be provided by the Government, RINDRA and local consulting firms. The
Government would relend to RINDRA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement the
equivalent in Malagasy Francs of SDR 3.0 million (US$3.7 million) necessary
to meet RINDRA's expenditures for consultancy services (Section 3.01(b) draft
Development Credit Agreement). Signing of such an agreement satisfactory to
IDA is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 6.01 (c), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The rate of interest on these funds would
be 12 percent, which is comparable to rates charged on other projects in
Madagascar. The repayment period would be ten years, including three years
of grace. Foreign Exchange funds from the project for the local Malagasy
management consulting firms would be provided to them in exchange for local



- 11 -
currency, since these firms are profitably operating enterprises, which only
need assured access to foreign exchange to meet the costs of the foreign
consultant services that they utilize. They would purchase the foreign
exchange with local currency from the government, which in turn would obtain
the foreign exchange under the proposed credit, thus reducing the govern-
ment-s net contribution to the project by that amount (Section 2.02(b), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Implementation
35.       The implementing agencies would be the Ministry of Economy and
Commerce, the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, and RINDRA
(Section 3.01, draft Development Credit Agreement). The proposed project would
be implemented over a six-year period 1982-87, which is the estimated time
needed to establish the Malagasy accounting and audit sector. Legislative
changes would be enacted within one year after effectiveness of the proposed
credit. A director for CFC is expected to be appointed, and a director
general for RINDRA is expected to be in post before the date of effectiveness
of this credit. CFC's teaching staff would be appointed by March 1, 1982 and
CFC would commence classes in May 1982. New consultants for RINDRA would be
appointed by July 1, 1981.
PART A: Legislation for Accounting and Audit
36.       As mentioned in paragraph 23 of this report, existing legislative
and other regulations governing audit and financial reporting in Madagascar
are inadequate. Therefore, provision has been made for drafting new legi-
slative proposals covering accounting requirements and other regulations
for various types of enterprises. For this purpose, experts and consultants
would be employed by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce to assist the
Government in drafting suitable legislation to give effect to measures des-
cribed in paragraph 36. All experts and consultants are to have qualifica-
tions, experience, and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association. (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       Proposals for new legislation would require (a) commercial enter-
prises, particularly those in the public sector, and those in the private
sector with publicly held stock, to keep proper books of account and prepare
and publish annual financial statements within a specified period in accor-
dance with specified standards of minimum disclosure; (b) financial statements
to be audited by qualified independent auditors who would certify whether,
they give a true and fair presentation of the state of affairs of the enter-
prise on a consistent basis; (c) persons authorized to act as auditors to have
specified minimum qualifications; and (d) professional auditors and accountants,
as a group or society, to promulgate accounting and auditing standards, and
issue recommendations to revise them, as well as to investigate departures
from those standards by their individual members. The audit requirement would
be enforced gradually, starting with the largest enterprises in the public
sector.
38.        The legislative measures are essential to the project.  Firstly,
they would help meet the overall objective of providing timely, informative



- 12 -
and reliable financial reports for effective management control and planning.
Secondly, they would provide incentives for accountants and auditors to
acquire expertise, by creating a demand for the level of competence needed to
produce, analyze, interpret and verify financial reports of legally prescribed
professional standard. The project includes twenty man-months of consulting
services to assist the Government to complete a review of existing accounting
requirements to prepare appropriate legislation under a national accounting
code by April 30, 1982. The Government would exchange views with the Associa-
tion on the results of such review and thereafter take appropriate legislative
and regulatory measures. (Section 3.07(a) and (b), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
PART B: Centre de Formation en Comptabilite (CFC)
39.       There are two agencies in Madagascar responsible for the education
sector, namely the Ministry of Basic Education covering primary and secondary
education, and the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, which
has under its direction the University of Madagascar, all technical schools,
and the institutions engaged in scientific research. The proposed CFC, to be
established in Antananarivo, would be classified as a technical school, and
its Director would report to a Management Committee, of which he is a member
in addition to representatives from Government, the accounting profession, and
the business community. The establishment of CFC in suitable, rented premises
in Antananarivo, and the appointment of CFC's internationally recruited
Director are conditions of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Director would be responsible for the
administration and implementation of CFC's program of studies, and ensure that
CFC meet the requirements of Madagascar's accounting and audit profession and
commercial enterprises.
40.       CFC would plan and develop a full-time five-year accountancy educa-
tion program comprising intermediate and final levels in day-time classes
for students with appropriate high school or equivalent qualifications.
Its educational and training facilities would provide instruction for future
professional level accountants and teachers. CFC would train local teachers
whom it will employ as teaching assistants during their training period.
Evening classes and correspondence courses would be provided for working
accountants as determined by course demand. An outline syllabus for the
studies program has already been drafted, but will have to be detailed in
course syllabi, in consultation with representatives of the Malagasy account-
ing profession and commercial organizations, to ensure that the CFC programs
meet the requirements and standards of these organizations.
41.       To help plan for its future level of activities, CFC would carry
out a survey of projected future demand for trained accountants in the coun-
try. The demand would be materially affected when the standards for account-
ing and auditing, and for qualification of auditors, are established through
the proposed legislation. The Government has agreed that by December 31, 1983
it will complete a survey of the future demand for accountants and auditors in
Madagascar for the ensuing ten year period. (Section 4.04, draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
42.       Demand by high school graduates for courses in accounting subjects
is considerable as is evidenced by the enrollment of up to 900 students in the
existing first year elementary accounting courses presently offered in the
university. Because CFC will be a new institution and the magnitude of demand
for training as professional accountants and auditors is not yet well defined,
CFC would begin its daytime operations initially with a small student enroll-
ment. In view of the expected interest in this new career possibility, the
Association has agreed that at the start two parallel classes of 50 students
each be established with eight teachers and teaching assistants. It is
generally accepted that a class size of this nature should not exceed 50
students, and this is the maximum class size for the project. The Government
has agreed that there would be not more than two classes for students admitted
in each of the first two years and that class size would not exceed 50 students
(Schedule 3, draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       The operating and equipment costs of CFC including contingencies
are estimated to be US$7.4 million over the project period of which US$3.6
million is in foreign exchange. During the four year period 1983-86 when
CFC would not have full enrollment while much of the initial preparatory work
would be carried out, the education cost per student year, in December 1980
constant prices, is expected to be US$4,900 decreasing to US$2,000 per student
year in 1989 when CFC would be staffed entirely by Malagasy teachers. Local
currency funds required for CFC's operations would be provided out of the
recurrent expenditures budget of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scien-
tific Research. To meet these requirements, the Government would at the
beginning of each fiscal year provide a budgetary allocation against which CFC
would draw funds as and when required by the project. At the start of the
project in 1982, about US$0.5 million would be provided for CFC through a
reallocation from the existing budget of the Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific Research, which has sufficient funds available for this purpose.
The Government has agreed to provide annually local currency funds as needed
by CFC (Section 4.03(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART C: National Audit Company - RINDRA
44.       An efficient and credible audit organization needs to provide
considerable on-the-job training to its staff, in addition to theoretical
instruction. Realizing this necessity, particularly in the context of the
situation in Madagascar, the Government signed on October 1, 1978, a six-month
contract with the firm Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. (PMM) to help establish
RINDRA. After incorporation in April 1979, RINDRA signed a further contract
with PMM for 27 months which is due to expire on June 30, 1981.  Under these
contracts, PMM undertook to assist RINDRA in recruiting accounting and audit
staff; to implement basic as well as advanced training programs in auditing,
accounting and management systems and procedures; to supervise work performed
by RINDRA staff on audit assignments; and to assist in managing RINDRA's
overall operations. PMM's training of local staff has been satisfactory.
45,       Progress has been achieved by RINDRA-s consultants in (a) impressing
upon managements of major commercial enterprises the need for and importance
of proper accounting and impartial independent audit for their organizations;
(b) instituting selection and recruitment procedures for employment of RINDRA's



- 14 -
audit staff; (c) training the staff in generally accepted accounting, auditing
and related professional standards, and application of those standards in
practice; and (d) instituting basic time recording and audit planning proce-
dures in RINDRA. RINDRA-s ongoing efforts to develop into a viable audit
organization would be supported under the proposed project by a five-year
program for on-the-job training of RINDRA staff with the help of accounting
and audit consultants (Section 3.03 (iii), draft Development Credit Agreement).
46.        The program for on-the-job training would include various phases and
functions of professional accounting and external audit services to clients
such as review of internal audit procedures and internal control, detailed
examination of documents and records, special investigations, taxation,
preparation and certification of accounts statements, and report writing. To
establish and implement the internal procedures for RINDRA, the program would
include staff recruitment and training, business promotion and client relations,
as well as planning, organizing, staffing, supervising, controlling and
carrying out of audit and other professional assignments, and negotiation of
fees with clients, and billing and collection of fees.
47.       During the 21 months to June 30, 1980, the end of RINDRA's fiscal
year, RINDRA carried out auditing and related assignments for about 40 enter-
prises which are among the larger companies in Madagascar. About two-thirds
of these assignments were for audit and the others were partial reviews of
specific problems. All of RINDRA's operations include a substantial element
of training, both classroom and on-the-job. Although the audit and other
assignments were carried out satisfactorily, RINDRA did not reach its planned
level of audit activity during the first two years of its operations. This
lower level of audit activity was mainly due to the high fees demanded for
RINDRA-s services and lack of awareness of potential clients of the avail-
ability and value of RINDRA's services.
48.       RINDRA's first audited books of account for the period to June 30,
1980 were received on April 10, 1981. RINDRA will have its accounts and
financial statements audited each fiscal year (Section 4.02, (b), draft
Development Credit Agreement.)
49,       RINDRA's Director-General is responsible for the level of activity,
quality of professional services, day-to-day management, and for signing all
audit reports. The present Director-General has been appointed to this
position with a background and experience restricted to government accounting
methods rather than the required experience of a professional auditing firm.
In order to operate effectively RINDRA will therefore need the technical and
managerial support of an experienced and competent Director-General who must
be a professionally qualified accountant. The Government has agreed that a
Director-General with powers and qualifications acceptable to the Association
would be in post before effectiveness of the proposed credit (Sections 4.03(a)
and 6.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). The Director General would
be responsible to take all necessary decisions for the day-to-day management
and technical auditing activities of RINDRA, including supervision of audit or
other professional work; signing or countersigning of all audit reports;
selection, employment and development of audit staff; relations with RINDRA's
clients; and supervision of any consultants working for RINDRA.



I                           ~~~~~~~~~IBRD 14160
I    -~~~kq
I  t~~~~~~~It
I  I'                                                        B  
ISD  P-~~~~~~~~~                                                                                               N1
us   a. a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI17



