CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1099 UNI
Project Agreement
(Gusau Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NORTH-WESTERN STATE OF NIGERIA
DATED APRIL 4, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1099 UNI
Project Agreement
(Gusau Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NORTH-WESTERN STATE OF NIGERiA
DATED APRIL 4, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and NORTH-WESTERN STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called NWS).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million dollars ($ 19,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NWS agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NWS, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to NWS on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS NWS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditio-o (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NWS shall carry out Parts A through H of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement through GPMU, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) NWS shall establish and maintain the Gusau Project
Management Unit to be responsible for the execution of Parts A through H of
the Project, in a form and with powers, functions, responsibilities, organization,
resources, financial structure and policies as shall be satisfactory to the Bank and
NWS.
(b)   NWS shall, cause GPMU to be adequately staffed at all times. Without
limitation or restriction upon the generality of the foregoing:
(i)        NWS shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, make
available to GPMU by secondment or otherwise, during two years
from the Effectiveness Date, the services on permanent basis of
at least 2 agricultural officers, 12 agricultural superintendents
and 41 agricultural assistants or experienced field overseers; and
(ii)       NWS shall employ, within GPMU, duly qualified and competent
persons to the positions of Project Manager, Chief Accountant,
Credit Manager, Chief Engineer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief
Technical Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, Farm Manager,
Seeds Officer, Animal Husbandry Officer, Farm Management
Advisor, Land Use Planner, Road Engineer, Mechanical Engineer,
Senior Evaluation Officer and Water and Soil Conservation
Engineer, with qualifications and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and NWS.
(c)   NWS shall, until the completion of the Project, transfer senior staff
of GPMU only after consultation with GPEC.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NWS undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by NWS
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, NWS shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.05. NWS shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.06. NWS: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, enable the Bank's representatives
to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concei,iing the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. NWS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NWS shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. As soon as possible but not later than June 30, 1981, NWS
shall cause Gusau Development Board and Kaura-Namoda Development Board or
any other agency or agencies, as the case may be, designated for this purpose
to maintain the roads and water supplies included in Parts A, B and C of the
Project and falling within their iespective jurisdiction in accordance with appropriate
administrative and engineering, and, wherever applicable, agricultural practices.
Section 2.09. NWS shall establish and maintain the Gusau Project Executive
Committee in a form and with membership, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank. Without any limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing, GPEC shall be empowered to approve GPMU's annual budgets
and monthly cash flow statements.
Section 2.10. Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, NWS shall establish or cause to be established, a bank
account to be used exclusively to make payments for the cost of goods and services
required on the part of GPMU to carry out Parts A through H of the Project.
NWS shall, when necessary, make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the
relevant bank, to enable GPMU to make withdrawals from time to time from said
bank account up to amounts the withdrawal of which shall have been guaranteed
by NWS. Such amounts shall be determined by NWS on the basis of amounts
allocated to the Project in its annual budget prepared after taking into account


﻿6
GPMU's budget, and estimated coniribution of NWS toward the cost of the Project
in the light of GPMU's budget and working capital requirements. The Project
Account shall show, under a separate head, all revolving funds comprising amounts
disbursed to farmers and outstanding, amounts of sub-loan repaid and interest and
other charges paid or payable.
Section 2.11. NWS shall continue its present subsidies to farmers on
fertilizers.
Section 2.12. NWS shall: (i) cause Northern States Marketing Board to pay
particular attention to efficient produce buying within the Project area; and (ii)
where necessary, encourage groups of farmers to operate as Licensed Buying Agents
within the Project area.
Section 2.13. NWS shall cause GPMU to prepare GPMU's annual budgets,
in form satisfactory to NWS and the Bank, and its monthly cash flow statements
and shall authorize GPMU to operate, unless otherwise instructed in writing by
the Chairman of GPEC, on the basis of such statements.
Section 2.14. NWS shall ensure that any future ginning arrangement shall
not adversely affect present arrangements as to the production, marketing or ginning
of cotton within the Project area.
Section 2.15. NWS shall, not later than one month from the Effective Date,
place the management and control of the seed farm at Gusau under the care of
GPMU.
Section 2.16. NWS shall take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire
as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out Part E of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to Part E of the Project.
Section 2.17. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the lending policies and procedures for carrying out Part H of the Project shall
be as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.0 1. NWS shall cause GPMU to maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.


﻿7
Section 3.02. NWS shall cause GPMU to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and NWS; (ii) furnish to the Borrower, the Bank and NWS as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Borrower, the
Bank or NWS such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of GPMU- and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Bank and NWS shall cooperate fully to assure that the
purposes of the Loan will be accomplished To that end, the Bank and NWS shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance of their respective obligations under
this Agreement, the performance by NWS of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and, in respect of the Project, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the departments or agencies of NWS responsible for carrying
out Parts A through H of the Project or any portion thereof, and other matters
relating to the purpose of the Loan.
Section 4.02. The Bank and NWS shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which. interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the performance by either of them of its obligations
under this Agreement and the performance by the Borrower and NWS of their
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. NWS shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties and the equipment, records and
documents relevant to the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿8
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
NWS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify NWS of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
For NWS:
Commissioner for Agriculture
Ministry of Agriculture
North Western State
Sokoto, Nigeria
Cable address:
SECAG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of NWS may be taken or executed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance,
or such other person or persons as the said Permanent Secretary shall designate
in writing.
Section 6.03. NWS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of NWS, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by NWS pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Sec .ion 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
NORTH-WESTERN STATE OF NIGERIA
By /s/ A.I.T. Galadima
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
PART I
Procedures
1.   Except as provided in this Part I, procedures for procurement shall be
consistent with those of international competition described in "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines).
2.    International competition will not be required for works included in Parts
A, B and C of the Project and the same shall be carried out by the Construction
Unit under GPMU or through negotiated contracts with small contractors. Goods
not included in Part II of this Schedule shall be procured through normal
commercial channels.
PART H
Bidding Procedures and Approvals by the Bank
With respect to all rnntracts for vehicles, plant, equipment, fertilizers,
insecticides and farm tractors and implements estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be


﻿11
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of any
such contract.
PART III
Procurement of Goods referred to in Part II; Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation
and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Nigeria may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manLUfactured in Nigeria if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Nigeria equal to at least 20o of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.


﻿12
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Nigeria.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lqwest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or, if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of the c.i.f. price of such goods and (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C
shall be selected.
PART IV
Bidding Procedure, Approval by the Bank and Preference for Domestic Civil Works
Contractors
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works incluaed in Parts D and E of
the Project, invitations to bid need not be advertised in publications outside
Borrower's territory and the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, as determined by the Borrower, in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Applicants applying for preference shall be asked to provide
such information, including details of ownership, as the Borrower shall require to
determine whether according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic


﻿13
preference. A list of prequalified bidders identifying those eligible for preference,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification or eligibility for preference, shall be furnished
by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request
before the applicants are invited to bid.
(b)   Before bids are invited the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(c)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
(d)   After bids have been evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to
whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two confornied copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of any
such contract.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.    Sub-loans to farmers shall take the form of disbursements in kind by the
GMPU to farmers participating in the Project of insecticides, sprayers, fertilizers,
farm tractors and implements and other agricultural inputs, such disbursements
being financed for the respective farmer under a sub-loan agreement or agreements,
as appropriate, between the farmer and the GPMU. If the GPMU shall determine
that it is necessary so to do, GPMU may lend to farmers in cash for hired labor
from the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category. II of. Schedule I to the
Loan Agreement, or from funds available locally, or partly from one and partly
from the other.
2.    All applications for seasonal sub-loans and sprayers for amounts not exceeding
N* 100 shall be approved by credit assistants at the village level after clearing the
credit worthiness of the farmer with the farmers group or association so authorized
to do. Where the beneficiary is a farmer's group or association such clearance shall
be obtained from the village authorities.
3.    Except as provided in Paragraph 4 hereof, all applications for sub-loans for
amounts in excess of N100 shall be approved by the relevant credit officer.
4.    All applications for sub-loans for amounts in excess of N500 shall be
approved by the Credit Manager of GPMU.
5.    All sub-loans, except sub-loans for amounts not exceeding N500, shall be
made (i) on the basis of an approved farm development plan and (ii) in an amount
which together with any amount or amounts under any prior sub-loan to the
beneficiary, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
N5,000.
6.    Interest rates on sub-loans shall be between 5 per cent and 9-1/2 per cent
per annum. Prior to the beginning of each planting season, a schedule of proposed
lending terms shall be furnished by GPMU to GPEC which shall, in consultation
with appropriate Nigerian authorities and the Bank, apply the lending terms for
the said season.


