                               Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/07/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: ARMENIA                                               Project ID: P060786
Project: Public Sector Modernization                           Task Team Leader: Tony Verheijen
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 8, 2004                   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 6, 2004                                     IDA Amount ($m): 10.00
Managing Unit: ECSPE                                           Sector: General public administration sector (50%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)             Sub-national government administration (25%);
Status: Lending                                                Central government administration (25%)
                                                               Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                               procurement (P); Administrative and civil service
                                                               reform (P); Other accountability/anti-corruption (P)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The project development objective is to improve transparency, accountability, effectiveness and efficiency
of the public sector in civil service management, procurement, financial management, policy formulation
and service delivery.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The project would have six components. It would provide consulting services, equipment and training to
assist the government in implementing the activities indicated below:

Component 1: Reforming the Civil Service: Develop/ improve civil service law, regulations, procedures
and methodological guidelines; implement new systems for competitive recruitment, performance
management, attestation, discipline, appeals, personnel reserve etc.; enhance the capacity of Civil Service
Council and personnel management units in line ministries and agencies, through improvements in
organizational structure, staffing levels, training, record keeping, and provision of essential IT and office
equipment; develop and implement a Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS);
implement a strategy for improving pay and incentive structure of the civil service and rationalizing its size;
implement a National Strategy for Civil Service Training; and strengthen the capacity of the Academy of
Public Administration to conduct/ organize civil service training.

Component 2: Improving Public Procurement: Improve legal and regulatory framework of public
procurement; streamline roles and responsibilities of the Authorized Body (AB), the State Procurement
Agency (SPA) and Purchasing Entities (PEs); strengthen capacity of AB, SPA and PEs; rationalize internal
and external controls over procurement; improve dissemination of information to bidders and other
stakeholders; improve the system for dealing with complaints and grievances; streamline institutional
arrangements for procurement under Bank-financed projects; and introduce of e-Procurement.

Component 3: Strengthening External and Internal Control: Improve the law and regulations of the
Chamber of Control to increase its independence and introduce modern audit methodologies; develop and
implement law and regulations on internal audit; develop external and internal audit manuals, guidelines
and a code of ethics; establish Internal Audit Units in selected ministries and agencies; clarify roles and
responsibilities of different Control Services to reduce overlap and duplication; train staff of the COC,
Control Services and Internal Audit Units; provide essential IT and Office equipment to the COC, Control

                                                       2
                                                                                                        ISDS


Services and Internal Audit Units and implement a network linking the COC, Control Agencies and Internal
Audit Units to facilitate exchange of information and coordination of work programs; and create
arrangements for regular dissemination of reports of the COC to the public.

Component 4: Modernizing Pilot Ministries: For each of the pilot ministries implement a comprehensive
Modernization Plan that would establish clear mission, vision and strategic objectives of the Ministry;
strengthen governance arrangements, including autonomy and accountability for results; improve the
applicable legal and regulatory framework; adjust the organizational structure; re-engineer and automate
key business processes; strengthen policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation capacity; improve
reporting, supervision and performance appraisal systems; improve planning, budgeting and financial
management systems; strengthen human resource management; develop and implement Management
Information Systems (MIS); improve coordination with the center of the government, other ministries and
agencies; establish systems for timely dissemination of information to and regular consultations with civil
society, private sector and the public in areas of public interest; strengthen grievance mechanisms; and
improve physical infrastructure.

Component 5: Modernizing Pilot Agencies: For each pilot agency implement a comprehensive
Modernization Plan broadly similar to that of the pilot ministries mentioned above, but focusing on
improving policy implementation and client service.

Component 6: Project Management, Surveys and Communication Campaign: Finance key Project
Management Group (PMG) staff; provide essential office equipment to PMG; train PMG staff in Bank
procedures and change management; carry out periodic surveys of households, firms, NGOs and public
officials to collect data on key performance indicators and obtain stakeholder feedback on the reform
process; design and carry out a communication campaign to explain project objectives and activities to
managers, staff and other stakeholders in order to build and maintain support and ownership for the
reforms; and undertake other change management activities.


Components:


Reforming the Civil Service
Improving Public Procurement
Streangthening External and Internal Control
Modernizing Pilot Ministries
Modernizing Pilot Agencies
Project Management Survey and Communication Campaign




I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social

                                                        3
                                                                                                          ISDS


characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
NA


B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments:


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                      Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes     No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes     No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes     No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes     No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
NA

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
NA

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
NA

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
NA

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
NA




II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

                                                      4
                                                                                                           ISDS


TBD

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                             Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                      Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                                Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                                  Date
Task Team Leader:                     Tony Verheijen                                        11/6/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Mark C. Woodward                                      11/7/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

                                                5
                                                               ISDS




Approved by:                    Name                 Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Gerhard Dieterle    11/7/2003
Sector Manager                   Helga W. Muller     11/7/2003

