Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3891 AM 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Public Sector Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 30, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3891 AM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 2004, between the Republic of Armenia (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;   
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United States Agency 
for International Development (USAID), a grant in an amount of approximately two 
hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) to assist in financing part of Part B of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and the USAID (the USAID MOU); and, 
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Deutsche Gesellschaft 
für Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), a grant in an amount of approximately four 
hundred and thirty thousand dollars ($430,000) to assist in financing part of Part C of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an MOU to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the GTZ (the GTZ MOU); 
WHEREAS (D) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
“APA” means the Armenian Academy of Public Administration, a non-
commercial organization established and operating in Armenia in accordance with the 
Decree of Government No. 338 of April 8, 2002, or any legal successor thereto; 
 
“COC” means the Chamber of Control of the National Assembly, 
established pursuant to the Law on Chamber of Control of the National Assembly of the 
Republic of Armenia dated May 29, 1996, or any legal successor thereto; 
 
“CSC” means the Civil Service Council, duly established and operating 
pursuant to the requirements of the Civil Service Law of December 4, 2001; 
 
"Co-financing Arrangements” means collectively the USAID and the 
GTZ MOUs; 
 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
“Foreign Financial Projects Management Center” or “FFPMC” means 
the projects management unit within the Ministry of Finance and Economy established 
and operating pursuant to the Minister of Finance and Economy’s Decree No. 37 dated 
March 29, 2000, or any legal successor thereto; 
 
“Inter-community Unions” or “ICUs” means a voluntary association of 
local authorities established and operating pursuant to the principles and requirements of 
the Law on Local Self-Government dated May 7, 2002; 
 
“MTAIC” means the Borrower’s Office of the Minister of Territorial 
Administration and Infrastructure Coordination;  
 
“MTED” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Trade and Economic 
Development; 
 
“Ministries” means collectively the Borrower’s Ministry of Trade and 
Economic Development, Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Office of 
Government; 
 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” or “ME&I” means the agreed 
performance indicators set forth in a supplemental letter to be utilized by the Borrower 
under the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the 
degree to which the objectives therefore are being achieved; 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
“OG” means the Borrower’s Office of the Government, established 
pursuant to the Government Decree No. 726 of May 2, 2002; 
 
“OPA” means the Borrower’s Office of the President’s Administration 
established pursuant to the President’s Resolution No. NH-1159-N of August 20, 2002; 
 
“Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Association 
to be adopted by the PSRC (as hereinafter defined) by August 31, 2004, setting forth the 
operational and administrative procedures for the implementation of the Project as such 
manual may be amended from time to time with prior agreement of the Association; 
 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the document dated 
November 
30, 
2004, satisfactory to the Association, describing the criteria and 
procedures for the implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the PSRC and the Association; 
 
“Public Sector Reform Commission” or “PSRC” means the commission 
consisting of representatives from various government ministries and agencies as well as 
the Non-Governmental Organization community established pursuant to the Prime 
Minister’s Decree No. 544 dated September 3, 1999, or any legal successor thereto;  
 
“Special Account” means the account  referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
“Specialized Agencies” means the National Institute of Standardization 
and Quality, the National Institute of Metrology, the Quality Inspectorate and the 
Accreditation Agency responsible for the implementation of standardization, metrology 
and certification policy under the Ministry of Trade and Economic Development; 
 
“State Procurement Agency” means a non-commercial state organization 
established and operating in accordance with the Government Decree No. 914-N dated 
June 27, 2002; 
 
“Training Center” means a non-commercial organization within the 
Ministry of Finance and Economy, duly established and operating in Armenia in 
accordance with Government Decree No. 1404-A of August 15, 2002, or any legal 
successor thereto; and 
(u) 
“Working Groups” means the working groups, referred to in Part A.1 (c) 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 (b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2014, and ending May 1, 2044.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2024, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  The Borrower shall open, pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this 
Agreement and, thereafter, maintain in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, 
an account (the Project Account), wherein it shall deposit an amount from its own 
resources sufficient to cover the portion of counterpart financing requirements for local 
expenditures for which the Borrower is responsible under the Project financing plan and 
which are projected to be made under the Project in the three months succeeding.  The 
balance in the Project Account on effectiveness shall not be less than $60,000, and 
thereafter, the Borrower agrees to include appropriate budgetary allocations satisfactory 
to the Association for its local counterpart financing requirements for each fiscal year for 
the duration of the Project. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project;
 
and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower through the FFPMC, shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and report on the audit by said 
auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower through the 
FFPMC shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;  
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
ensure that the records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and the report 
on the audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the financial monitoring reports or statements of 
expenditures submitted during the fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and  
(iv) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part B.2 (b) of Schedule 4 to the Agreement, the Borrower, through 
the FFPMC, shall prepare and furnish to the Association the FMR, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report;   
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(iii) 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iv) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Co-financing Arrangements shall have failed to become effective by 
April 30, 2005, or such later date as the Association may agree provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes, to the 
satisfaction of the Association, that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any of the grant made to 
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the Association, that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has opened a Project Account with a deposit of an initial 
amount of $60,000 equivalent; and 
(b) 
the Borrower has set up the office of the Project Manager with staff 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
Section 6.02.
 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
 
1
Government House 
 
Republic Square 
 
Yerevan 375010 
 
Republic of Armenia 
 
Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
243331
LADA SU 
 
(3741) 151-069  
 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
 
By: /s/ Manuk Topuzyan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Roger Robinson 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
4,780,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 100% 
 
(ex-factory cost) of 
 
local expenditures and 
 
90%
for other items  
 
procured locally   
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services 
1,550,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures and 
 
92%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3)  
Training & Study Tours 
105,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
365,000 
90% 
 
________
TOTAL 6,800,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
(c)  
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred for 
financing the costs of providing utilities, office equipment, supplies, meetings, surveys, 
publicity and country travel costs related to Project, communication costs, reasonable 
banking charges, the PIU/FFPMC and other professional staff salaries (excluding 
government civil servant). 
3.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to enhance efficiency in public sector management 
through: (a) piloting innovations in selected institutions; and (b) improving transparency 
in government decision-making and policy implementation. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Strengthening Civil Service Management
1. 
Developing a civil service development strategy, including a long-term vision for 
the development of the civil service system and possible rationalization of the whole 
public service. 
2. 
 Completing the framework for civil service management. 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of the CSC through: (a) developing and implementing 
a
civil service training strategy and providing targeted training to the CSC staff on 
improving testing and attestation instruments; (b) providing equipment including 
hardware and software to better manage the CSC internal administrative processes; (c) 
developing a public communication and public relations strategy; (d) establishing a 
public information center; and (e)  improving the CSC website. 
4. 
Provision of technical and advisory services to the CSC to establish a human 
resource management system and link the CSC with the government ministries and 
agencies as defined under the Civil Service Law. 
5. 
Strengthening the training capacity of the APA through: (a) improving its 
capacity to develop and implement training programs; (b) upgrading and refurbishing its 
training facilities; (c) providing equipment and training materials to the two regional 
branches in Vanadzor and Goris; and (d) providing other relevant advisory services to the 
APA. 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
Part B:
Introducing E-procurement
Provision of technical assistance and advisory services to the Ministry of Finance 
and Economy and the State Procurement Agency to:  
1. 
establish and equip an information technology infrastructure for e-procurement; 
and 
2. 
develop an e-procurement system including supplying and installing e-
procurement software, developing e-procurement manuals, conducting public awareness 
and outreach programs and training on the e-procurement system. 
Part C:
Strengthening the COC
1. 
Providing advisory services to the COC on drafting auditing standards, 
developing audit manuals and providing related training. 
2. 
Supplying information technology and office equipment. 
3. 
Upgrading the COC’s website. 
Part D:
Improving Policy Formulation and Implementation
1.  
Provision of technical assistance and advisory services on conducting a 
diagnostic assessment of the functions, organization, policy formulation and 
implementation processes in the Ministries. 
2. 
Establishing an integrated document management system including developing 
an application to track and promote exchange of documents both within and outside the 
Ministries. 
3. 
 Training the Ministries’ staff on the process of document flows in each of the 
Ministries, information technology and technical support.  
4. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Finance and Economy through: (a) 
training its staff on internal auditing, revenue policy and the coordination systems with 
the tax and customs services; (b) strengthening the capacity of the Training Center on 
curriculum development and effective training; and (c) providing training equipment and 
furnishings to the Training Center. 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
5. 
Strengthening the capacity of the MTED through: (a) training and providing 
advisory services on regulatory policy-making, standardization and certification; (b) 
providing technology and communication services to improve the MTED’s access to the 
Internet; and  (c) upgrading its website. 
6. 
Providing technical and advisory services to the OG to establish a public 
information center and develop a website. 
7. 
Provision of information technology and office equipment to the OG and the 
OPA to strengthen their supervision services. 
8. 
Provision of technical assistance and advisory services to the Specialized 
Agencies in charge of standardization, metrology and certification to: (a) improve each 
Agency’s regulatory and technical standards; (b) develop and implement a database of 
the relevant international technical standards; (c) prepare detailed technical requirements 
for essential laboratory equipment for the Specialized Agencies; and (d) supply the 
essential laboratory equipment. 
Part E:
Developing Capacity in Local Government
1. 
 Developing the conceptual and legal frameworks for the establishment and 
operation of the ICU. 
2. 
Training local administrations officials on service delivery including 
implementation of their mandatory and delegated functions as defined in the Law of 
Local Self-Government of May, 2002. 
3. 
Providing technical and advisory services to the MTAIC on the implementation 
of local tax administration and building the capacity of the main local municipalities on 
budget management and local tax administration.   
4. 
Promoting the effective implementation of the law on municipal services through 
training local government officials on its effective implementation and developing its 
implementation procedures and secondary legislation. 
5. 
Establishing and equipping an electronic municipal services and management 
information system. 
6. 
Upgrading the Information Systems Development Center in Charenstsavan 
Municipality and training its staff on the use of information technology to enhance the 
quality of municipal service delivery. 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
Part F
:
Project Management
1. 
Providing administrative support services to the Project Manager as well as the 
FFPMC in carrying out procurement, financial management and auditing. 
2. 
Conducting periodic surveys on the reform process and publicity to explain 
project objectives and activities to managers, staff and other stakeholders. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999  (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.  
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods procured in accordance with 
international competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) the first two contracts procured in 
accordance with national competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts procured in accordance with 
international shopping procedures; and (ii) the first two contracts procured in accordance 
with national shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
international shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
 Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Consultant Guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
 Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing the project under Part F of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for surveys and communication campaigns under Part F.2 of the Project, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
3. Selection 
Based 
on
Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the design and development of software, manuals, training materials 
and conducting of training workshops, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) 
months during the execution of the Project and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidate’s terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
Part A:
Institutional Arrangements
1.
 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
designate the inter-ministerial PSRC as the project management board 
with the responsibility for project management; 
(b) 
establish, not later than October 1, 2004, a project implementation group 
consisting of a Project Manager, a lawyer, an Information Technology Specialist and the 
FFMPC with the responsibility for developing and updating the Project Implementation 
Plan, providing advice and support to the agencies participating in the Project and 
reporting to the PSRC on project implementation; and  
(c) 
require each Ministry involved in the project, the MTAIC, the COC and 
the CSC to establish not later than August 31, 2004, working groups with composition 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association. 
Part B:
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the M&EI, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof as the same M&EI may be amended 
from time to time with the approval of the Association; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter; and 
(d) 
prepare and adopt by November 30 of each year, commencing from year 
2004, Annual Project Implementation Plans including a plan for each project component 
and working group. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories 1-4 set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.  
 
