Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  51276 
Project Name 
Public Sector Modernization 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);Sub-national 
government administration (25%);Central government 
administration (25%) 
Project ID 
P060786 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economy of Armenia 
Melik Adamian 1 
Armenia 
375010 
Tel: (3741) 595304 
Fax: (3741) 524282 
mfe@mfe.am press@mfe.am 
Public Sector Reform Commission 
Office of the Government 
Armenia 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 9, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 8, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
May 6, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Armenian economy has faced significant shocks in the recent past, including the 
1988 earthquake; the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict; the 1998 Russia financial crisis; the 
severe drought in 2000 and the harsh frost in the spring of 2002. Furthermore, the 1999 
assassination of the Prime Minister, some key government officials and members of 
Parliament posed a severe political shock. Notwithstanding these events, the economy 
has been remarkably resilient, as can be seen from the key macro-economic indicators in 
Table 1 below. Economic growth accelerated from 6 percent in 2000 to 9.6 percent in 
2001, 12.9 percent in 2002 and 13.9 percent in 2003. The economy continued its strong 
performance during 2003. Real GDP increased by 15.7 percent in the first 10 months of 
2003, driven mainly by industrial and construction growth. 
 
Despite considerable progress, the sustainability of the broad based economic growth is 
one of the key challenges.  Growth, especially from 1995-99, has been concentrated 
mainly in sectors with limited employment opportunities.  Since then, the entrepreneurial 
Page  2
climate has improved resulting in a better functioning of the real sector. More than 70 
percent of GDP was generated by the private sector. During the past two years the 
economic growth was driven by high rate of export expansion. Manufacturing exports 
grew by more than 50 percent in two years, with a positive impact on employment and 
household incomes.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
A
key goal of the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of April, 2001, is 
improving governance and public services. This is in line with broader country goals, as 
articulated in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The new four year CAS, 
which is currently in its final stage of preparation, also highlights the need for 
improvement of public sector management, and establishes a linkage between the PSMP 
and the planned PRSC.  
 
The project will contribute to one of the key goals of the current CAS by increasing 
transparency, accountability, effectiveness and efficiency in public sector management.  
This will be achieved by supporting the Government’s efforts to create a politically 
impartial and qualified civil service with effective horizontal management systems. The 
project also aims to improve value for money and competitiveness in public procurement 
through introduction of the e-procurement system and strengthen external and internal 
control within the public sector.  It will aim to improve the policy formulation, 
monitoring and evaluation capacity of pilot ministries (Economic Development and 
Trade (MEDT), Finance and Economy (MOFE) and the Office of the Government) and 
improve the policy implementation capacity of the agencies responsible for providing 
services in the Standardization, Metrology and Certification systems.  Furthermore, the 
project will support the Government’s efforts in building capacities in local governments, 
particularly in provision of better services, budget formulation, tax collection, staff 
management and establishment of intercommunity unions.  
 
Since the policies of the MOFE and MTED have a significant impact on the investment 
climate and the selected pilot agencies play an important role in facilitating or regulating 
business activities, the modernization of these entities will also contribute to the other 
CAS goal of promoting private sector development. All these activities also contribute to 
the achievement of the objectives of the recently approved Anti-Corruption Strategy 
program of the government. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Over the past years the Bank has pursued an active dialogue with the government on 
public sector reform issues, mostly through the provision of analytical and advisory 
services, which included a Civil Service Assessment (1998), the Institutional and 
Governance Review (2000), the Public Expenditure Review (2003), the Country 
Procurement Assessment Report (2003) and the Country Financial Accountability 
Assessment (2003). In addition, reforms of the governance system were supported by 
various adjustment operations. This project builds on previous Bank work and will 
Page  3
support to the implementation of reforms adopted under previous operations. It has been 
prepared in close cooperation and partnership with civil society and with all major donor 
organizations and countries. The activities planned under the PSMP are of high priority 
for the government and contribute to the achievement of PRSP goals. There is strong 
ownership and commitment from all government ministries and agencies involved in the 
project, which is an important prerequisite for successful implementation. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project will consist of six components, which in combination will fund key 
innovations both in horizontal management processes and capacity building in specific 
institutions in the Armenian Public Administration. The ministry and agency-specific 
interventions aim to have a demonstration effect and are expected to generate further 
reforms in other ministries.  
 
The components related to horizontal management processes focus on Civil Service 
Management, Procurement, Financial Oversight, Policy Management and local level 
policy implementation. Ministry and Agency specific components focus on the Office of 
the Government, the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Economic 
Development and Trade and four selected agencies working in the area of 
standardization, certification and metrology. The selection of Ministries and Agencies 
favored those agencies that fulfill key functions in defining the business and investment 
climate. 
 
Component 1: Strengthening Civil Service Management  
 
Component 1 aims to: (a) improve the legislative and regulatory framework for civil 
service management; (b) strengthen the capacity of the Civil Service Council to 
effectively manage the implementation of the civil service reform program; (c) introduce 
inter-agency systems for Human Resource Management and Assessment/Attestation; and 
(d) strengthen the capacity of the Public Administration Academy to effectively provide 
training. 
 
Subcomponent 1A: Civil Service Development Strategy and Regulatory Framework  
 
The implementation of the 2002 Civil Service Law has been followed by the adoption of 
a
complex set of secondary legislative acts.  The adoption of a new legal framework is, 
however, only the starting point for the development of a modern civil service system and 
a
large Civil Service Development Agenda remains. Subcomponent 1A will:  (i) help 
improve and complete the legislative and regulatory framework for civil service 
management; and (ii) develop a long term vision for the civil service system, including 
the rationalization of the whole public service.   
 
Subcomponent 1B: Strengthening the Civil Service Council  
 
The Civil Service Council oversees recruitment to the senior levels of the state 
administration.  It also coordinates the implementation of the Civil Service Law and 
Page  4
manages the overall civil service system.  In order to further enhance the capacity of the 
Council to effectively manage the Civil Service System, subcomponent 1B will:  (i) help 
develop the Council staff’s capacity to improve the testing and attestation instruments;  
(ii) equip the Council’s offices to better carry out the Council’s internal procedures; (iii) 
help the Council staff develop and implement a Civil Service Training Strategy; 
(iv) familiarize high level civil servants with international best practices; (v) help develop 
a
Communications and Public Relations Strategy; and (vi) establish a Public Information 
Center and enhance the Council’s web site.      
 
Subcomponent 1C:  Introducing Systems for Human Resource Management and 
Assessment/Attestation for the Civil Service Council   
 
The introduction of a merit-based civil service is a major priority for the Government.  To 
help realize this goal, Subcomponent 1C will introduce civil service wide IT systems for:  
(i) Human Resource Management; and (ii) Assessment and Attestation.  The systems will 
link the Civil Service Council with the forty-one ministries and public agencies currently 
under the Civil Service Law.  Both systems will be computer-based and networked.   
 
Subcomponent 1D: Strengthening training capacity of the Academy of Public 
Administration   
 
Targeted and integrated training – at the central as well as regional levels – is a pressing 
need of the Armenian civil service.  In order to strengthen the capacity of the Armenian 
Academy of Public Administration (AAPA), the main provider of training, 
subcomponent 1D will:  (i) help strengthen the Academy’s capacity to develop and 
implement training programs, and to integrate training with career planning; (ii) upgrade 
the Academy’s training facilities in Yerevan and equip the to-be-created regional 
branches in Vanadzor and Goris; and (iii) provide advisory support.   
 
Project Component 2: Introducing E-Procurement   
 
Component 2 will help address some of the systemic weaknesses in the Procurement 
system identified in the CPAR (May 2003), in particular the prevalence of non-
competitive practices and over-reliance on single source methods. To this end, the 
component will support:  (a) the establishment of information technology infrastructure 
for e-Procurement; and (b) establish an e-Procurement System.  
 
Subcomponent 2A: Establish Information Technology Infrastructure for e-
Procurement   
 
Subcomponent 2A will finance key equipment for the development of the e-procurement 
system for the central Authorized Body and the State Procurement Agency as well as in 
each of sixty state agencies and forty-four local Treasury units and in the information 
centers in ten 
marz
 administrations and Yerevan region.   
 
Subcomponent 2B: Establish the e-Procurement System   
Page  5
Subcomponent 2B will finance the acquisition, adaptation, installation, configuration and 
testing of e-procurement application software, including (i) An automated internal 
procurement administration system, covering planning, budgeting and recording of 
contract awards; (ii) A contract management system for the generation and management 
of contractual documentation and the procurement process, (iii) system-controlled 
requisitions, purchase orders, and receipt and payment document, including e-catalogues 
for framework contracts.  Finally, Subcomponent 2B will finance a public 
awareness/outreach program to maximize the awareness and utilization of the e-
Procurement System.  
 
Parallel financing for this component is expected at 0.25 Million US$ through USAID, 
which will be providing additional advisory services and training to set up the E-
procurement system in the context of the Commercial Law and Economic Regulation 
(CLERP) project. 
 
Project Component 3:  Strengthening the Chamber of Control  
 
Component 3 will provide limited and focused support to the Chamber of Control (COC), 
which 
 
is the supreme audit institution in Armenia: (a) to help draft auditing standards 
and develop an Audit Manual and provide related training; (b) to provide some essential 
IT and office equipment; and (c) to 
enhance the COC’s web site.   
 
Parallel financing up to the amount of US$ 0.62 million is expected through GTZ, which 
will provide additional advisory services and training to the CoC for the design and 
implementation of audit standards. 
 
Project Component 4: Improving Policy Formulation and Implementation through 
Capacity Building   
 
Component 4 aims to strengthen policy formulation and implementation capacities in the 
central state administration, with a particular focus on three core institutions (i.e., the 
Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, 
and the Office of the Government).  Component 4 will:  (a) improve process and 
document flow in the core state administration; (b) support the Ministry of Finance and 
Economy in the areas of revenue policy, internal audit, and the Budget and Financial 
Management Training Center; (c) support the Ministry of Economic Development and 
Trade in the areas of regulatory policy-making and external communications; (d) support 
the Office of the Government in the area of external communications; and (e) and support 
specialized agencies responsible for the implementation of standardization, metrology 
and certification policy. 
 
Subcomponent 4A: Improving Process and Document Flow    
 
The Government has identified timely and effective implementation of Government 
Directives and decisions by the ministries and public agencies as a major weakness in 
Page  6
public sector management in Armenia.  Subcomponent 4A seeks to address these 
concerns through:  (i) a diagnostic of the policy process; (ii) training on the rationalized 
processes and document flows; and (iii) the introduction of an Integrated Document 
Management System.  
 
Subcomponent 4B:  Support to the Ministry of Finance and Economy in the areas of 
revenue policy, internal audit, and the Budget and Financial Management Training 
Center   
 
The structure of the Ministry of Finance and Economy has recently been redefined.  
However, a number of structural issues remain, including the clarification of the division 
of labor between the Ministry and the Tax and Customs Services and weaknesses in 
cross-ministerial management of the budget process.  A further key issue is the 
rationalization of the internal audit and financial control functions of the Ministry to 
bring these in line with international standards.   
 
To address the identified weaknesses, Subcomponent 4B will:  (i) provide training to 
strengthen policy development in the revenue policy area, including coordination systems 
with the Tax and Customs Services; (ii) strengthen the Ministry
’s internal audit 
mechanisms; and (iii) enhance the capacity of the Budget and Financial Management 
Training Center to effectively train staff members of budget departments across the 
public sector.   
 
Subcomponent 4C: Support to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade in 
the areas of regulatory policy-making and external communications   
 
The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade underwent a comprehensive 
restructuring process.  The size and the functions of the core ministry were reduced and 
specialized agencies were created to manage policy implementation.  However, a 
substantial capacity-building agenda remains, in particular in the areas of standardization, 
certification and metrology (WTO). 
 
Subcomponent 4C will:  (i) strengthen policy-making capacity in the area of 
standardization and certification; and (ii) strengthen the Ministry’s capacity to 
communicate and coordinate with external interlocutors – domestic and international, 
public and non-governmental.   
 
Subcomponent 4D: Support to the Office of the Government
 
in the area of external 
communications   
 
The Office of the Government was re-organized under the DFID-funded functional 
review.  As a result, the Office is better positioned to focus on its core task, namely to 
support the Prime Minister and the Government in the management of the government 
decision-making process.  Notwithstanding the improved focus, a substantial capacity-
building agenda remains for the Office. Subcomponent 4D will focus on strengthening 
Page  7
the Office of the Gove
rnment’s capacity to implement the Government’s program in a 
more open and publicly-engaged manner.   
 
Subcomponent 4E: Support to Standardization, Metrology and Certification Agencies   
 
In the context of WTO accession, the administration of standardization, metrological and 
certification functions takes on special significance. The Government plans to enhance 
the legislative and institutional framework in this area as well as to invest in capacity 
building of key agencies. Subcomponent 4E will therefore:  (i) help improve the 
regulatory framework and related technical standards; (ii) help improve access to 
international technical standards and standards procedures; and (iii) address essential 
needs in the testing laboratories.  
 
Project Component 5:  Developing Capacity in Local Governments   
 
Component 5 aims to improve local service delivery capacity by:  (a) building inter-
community cooperation frameworks to enhance service delivery capacity; (b) supporting 
the development of capacities to effectively raise revenues at the local level; 
(c) supporting the implementing the Law on Municipal Civil Service; and (d) introducing 
an electronic municipal services and management information system. 
 
Subcomponent 5A: Building Inter-Community Cooperation Frameworks to enhance 
service delivery capacity   
 
Armenia adopted a new Law on Local Self-Government in 2002.  The Law assigned 
significant responsibilities to the local governments.  The implementation of the Law has 
been difficult, since local capacities to provide quality public services to the citizens are 
uneven and, even in the best of circumstances, limited.  The Government sees the 
voluntary formation of Inter-Community Unions as the best way to avoid administrative 
fragmentation and mitigate the problems of uneven capacity and resource base between 
municipalities. Subcomponent 5A will:  (a) support the development of the conceptual 
and legal framework for the formation and operation of Inter-Community Unions; and (b) 
build capacity in local administrations for exercising mandatory and delegated functions.   
 
Subcomponent 5B: Supporting the Development of Capacities to Effectively Raise 
Revenues at Local Level   
 
The new Law on Local Self-Government has given local governments significant 
revenue raising powers, including the right to assess and collect property and land taxes.  
The assessment and collection of property and land tax at local level is highly 
problematic, in particular in rural areas.   
Subcomponent 5B will finance international and local technical assistance and trainers. 
These will advise The Ministry of Territorial Administration on the implementation of 
local tax administration and to build local capacity on budget management and local tax 
administration.   
 
Page  8
Subcomponent 5C:  Effectively implementing the Law on Municipal Civil Service   
 
The draft Law on Municipal Civil Service provides the legal framework for the creation 
of a permanent and professional cadre of local government staff.  Proper organization and 
development of these human resources is an essential precondition to efficient delivery of 
quality public services at the local level.  The Law, once adopted, will require significant 
implementation support.  Subcomponent 5C will therefore help design and implement a 
human resource management system for the municipal level civil service.   
 
Subcomponent 5D:  Introducing an Electronic Municipal Services and Management 
Information System   
 
Municipal administration and governance in Armenia suffers from numerous 
organizational as well as capacity constraints.  Whereas some of the organizational 
constraints are addressed by the subcomponents above, Subcomponent 5D focuses on 
capacity building in municipal management and governance:  (a) support the 
development and deployment of an integrated and networked, computer-based Municipal 
Services and Management Information System; and (b) strengthen a national center for 
technical support and system development in Charenstsavan.   
 
Project Component 6 Project Management, Surveys and Communication   
 
Components 1-5 above represent a set of complementary, but distinct, public sector 
management initiatives.  Each needs to be managed as a specific undertaking; yet, each 
must be orchestrated in the overall country context and within the unified project 
governance and administrative arrangements.  Monitoring of the overall project outcomes 
and impact is essential to proper management of the IDA Credit. In order to achieve this, 
Component 6 will support:  (a) project management; and (b) surveys and outreach. 
 
Subcomponent 6A: Project Management   
 
Project Management arrangements are detailed in Annex 5. The funds provided under 
this component will provide funding for the salaries and operational cost of the Project 
Manager and essential support staff, as well as for incremental cost incurred by the 
Foreign Financial Projects Management Center (FFPMC) of the Ministry of Finance, 
which will perform the project's financial management and procurement functions.  
 
Subcomponent 6B: Surveys and Outreach   
 
Subcomponent 6B will finance periodic surveys of households, firms, NGOs and public 
officials to collect data on key performance indicators and obtain stakeholders' feedback 
on the reform process.  Subcomponent 6B will also finance a communication campaign 
to explain project objectives and activities to managers, staff and other stakeholders.  
This will be important to build and maintain support and ownership for the reforms.  
 
5. Financing 
Page  9
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT .45 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10.15 
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) 
.87 
 Total 
11.47 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Public Sector Reform Commission would serve as the Project Management Board. 
Together with selected pilot ministries and agencies, it would be the responsible agency 
for implementation of project activities. 
 
Project management would be the responsibility of a Project Manager who would report 
to the inter-ministerial Public Sector Reform Commission. The Project Manager would 
be support by an IT expert and a lawyer. The Project Manager and her/his team would 
oversee project implementation, provide advice and support to the agencies participating 
in the project and report to the Public Sector Reform Commission on project 
implementation. The implementation of the different project components is the 
responsibility of the different government agencies involved in the project. Each agency 
will create an internal working-group that would coordinate the implementation of  its 
project activities. Financial management and procurement for the project would be 
carried out by the Foreign Financial Projects Management Center (FFPMC) at the 
Ministry of Finance and Economy. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The critical factors for the sustainability of the project include: continuing demand 
pressures for improvements in governance and quality of public services; sustained 
commitment of the Government at the political, managerial and technical levels to project 
objectives and activities; observance of the institutional rules promoted by the project; 
regular updating of information systems as designed in the project; and ability of the 
public sector to attract and retain skilled staff. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The proposed project design has drawn upon the lessons learned from previous projects 
in this sector, as set out in Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and Quality 
Assessment Group (QAG) evaluation documents. Some important lessons incorporated 
into the project design are the following: 
 
·
To build political commitment and ownership for reforms, it is essential that 
project activities correspond to the strategic priorities of the country and the 
government.  For this reason, the project has been designed to support the goals 
articulated in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. 
·
It is important to understand the specific context of the country in designing 
reform activities because a one-size-fits-all approach does not work.  For this 
Page  10
purpose extensive diagnostic studies and surveys have been undertaken and their 
findings have been used to identify project activities.  
·
Projects providing technical assistance and investments in capacity building often 
require policy reforms in order to make these interventions successful.  Therefore, 
it is necessary to link such projects to policy conditionality in adjustment 
operations.  The current project will be linked to the PRSC, which is currently 
under development.     
·
Donor coordination is essential to ensure that reforms pursued by different 
development agencies are mutually complementary.  For this purpose, extensive 
discussions have been held with other donor agencies and project activities have 
been chosen after taking into account their ongoing and planned initiatives, and 
where possible an integrated approach to the delivery of TA has been agreed.   
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
The project is rated as ‘C’, no environmental impact assessment required.  
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Enterprise Questionnaire 
Public Expenditure Review (PER) - - April 28, 2003 
Armenia Institutional and Governance Review (IGR).   
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (2004) 
Country Procurement Assessment Report (2003) 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Tony Verheijen 
Title: Sr Public Sector Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-2264 
Fax:  
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' 
claims on the disputed areas
 
Page  11
Email: averheijen@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
