Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16818
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1854-GH)
June 30, 1997
County Department 10
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Cedi per US$1.00
1987      1988      1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
160       278       341  1 343        368     437      649      957     1200    1596
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                 African Development Bank
AgSAC                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BADEA                Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
COCOBOD              Ghana Cocoa Board
CRETEC               Cocoa Research and Extension Technical Committee
CRIG                 Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana
CRP                  Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
CSD                  Cocoa Services Division
CSSVD                Cocoa Swollen Shot Virus Disease
DCA                  Development Credit Agreement
DFR                  Department of Feeder Roads in the Ministry of Roads and Highways
EFA                  Extension Field Assistant
ERP                  Economic Recovery Program
FY                   Fiscal Year
GOG                  Government of Ghana
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
LBC                  Licensed Buying Company
MOFA                 Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MRH                  Ministry of Roads and Highways
MUV                  Manufacturing Unit Value Index
ODA                  Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
PA                   Project Agreement
PBC                  Produce Buying Company Ltd.
PD                   Procurement Division
PPMRD                Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Research Department
PY                   Project Year
SAC                  Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President            Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director          Serge Michailof
Technical Manager         Jean Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader          Gotz Schreiber



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1854-GH)
Table of Contents
P reface     ......................................................................................................................................................... iii
Evaluation Summary .....................................................................v
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................................................... 1
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTlVES ...................................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMEN T OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .....................................................................3
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...........8
Implementation Record .....................................................................8
Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................................9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILYTY ....................................................................                     10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ....................................................................                           10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................................................... 11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................................... 11
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ....................................................................                          12
I. LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................                            13
Part I: STATISTICAL TABLES
1.       Summary of Assessments
2.       Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits
3.       Project Timetable
4.       Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5.       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
6.       Key Indicators for Project Operation
7.       Studies Included in Project
8A.      Project Costs
8B.      Project Financing
9.       Economic Costs and Benefits
10.      Status of Legal Covenants
11.      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12.      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13.      Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices         1.  ICR Mission's Aide Memoire
2.  Map                                                     i
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






lMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COCOA REHABILrTATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1854-OH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project in Ghana for
which IDA Credit 1854-GH in the amount of SDR 31.3 million (US$40.0 million equivalent at appraisal) was
approved on December 1, 1987, and made effective on November 15, 1988. Cofinancing was provided by the
African Development Bank/African Development Fund (ADB/ADF), the Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa (BADEA), the European Union (EU), and the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the
United Kingdom.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1996, two years after the original closing date of June 30, 1994. Final
disbursenent took place on September 25, 1996, at which time a balance of SDR 13.1 million (US$18.2 million
equivalent at closing) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by a joint FAO/CP World Bank mission' which visited Ghana in Febnruy 1997,
revised by G. Schreiber (AFTA3), and reviewed at a meeting chaired by S. Michailof, Country Director for
Ghana. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings, providing
data as well as comments on the mission's aide-memoire. Advance copies of this document were provided to the
borrower and the cofinanciers for review and comments. The Departnent for international Development
(formerly ODA) of the United Kingdom has endorsed this report. To date, no formal comments have been
received from the borrower or the other cofinanciers.
' H. Trupke (Mission Leader, FAO/CP), L. Campbell (Bio-Resources Engineer, World Bank, consultant), and C. Carlier (Tree Crops
Specialist, World Bank, consultant).
. . 



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1854-GH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.     The Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (CRP) was the third IDA-financed cocoa project in Ghana. Based on
a cocoa sector study carried out by the Bank in 1980, the project was first identified in 1981, and a prefeasibility
study was undertaken in the same year. Further preparatory work was suspended due mnainly to an unfavorable
economic environment. The project was re-identified in 1985, prepared in 1986, and appraised in 1987. Credit
1854-GH in the amount of SDR 31.3 milion (US$40.0 million equivalent at appraisal) was approved on
December 1, 1987, and became effective on November 15, 1988. Total project costs were estimated at
US$128.0 million, with co-financing to be provided by the African Development Bank (US$33.0 million) and
other co-financiers (US$18 million) and counterpart contributions of US$16.1 million by the Government of
Ghana (GOG) and US$20.9 million by the Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD).
Project Objectives and Components
ii.    The project objectives were clear, realistic and very relevant to the country and the sector. They were to:
(a) support the sectoral policy reforms agreed under the first Structural Adjustment Credit, and (b) increase cocoa
yields and production to stabilize output at about 300,000 tons per year, mainly through the rehabilitation of
300,000 ha of existing cocoa and the replanting of about 57,000 ha. This was to be achieved by: (i) maintaining
producer price incentives; (ii) improving the institutional efficiency of COCOBOD; (iii) improving cocoa
evacuation and quality control; (iv) implementing a road rehabilitation program; and (v) strengthening cocoa
research. The project comprised nine components: technical services for cocoa production; farm extension
services; seed production and distribution; Cocoa Swollen Shoot Virus Disease control (CSSVDC); research;
*nn input supply; internal cocoa marketing; monitoring and evaluation; and road program.
iii.    Project conditions focused on the gradual privatization of farm input marketing, streamhlng of
COCOBOD's cocoa buying and handling operations as well as improved organization of extension and demand
orientation of research. Implementation of the project's policy and institutional reform agenda received a strong
boost with the coming into effect in June 1992 of the Agricultural Sector Adjustnent Credit (AgSAC) which
strongly underpinned, and in some cases went beyond, the CPR's objectives.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    Performance in implementing the various project components was mixed. The components aiming at
improving the technical services for cocoa production and enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the cocoa
extension services were implemented broadly as designed, but the pilot program for the unification of cocoa
extension services with those ofthe Mnisatry of Food and Agriculture was not implernented. Seed production and
distribution were improved. Seed pod production was scaled to match actual demnand of about 2.2 million pods
per year. The arrangements agreed to for distribution of seed pods were followed, but pods are still sold at a
highly subsidized price.
v



v.     Under the CSSVD progam 17,930 ha of diseased cocoa trees were to be cut out and 17,330 ha
replaned. Due to repeated changes in financing arrangements for the comnponent, only about 5,000 ha were cut
out from 1988/89 to 1993/94. From July 1994 onwards, a "Cordon Sanitaire" program was initiated, separaing
the areas of mass infection from those of scattered outbreaks. The European Union provided STABEX funds
(about US$4.2 million) for incentive payments, and IDA financed vehicles and eqtipment. During the two years
until project closing another 8,056 ha were cut out, bringing the total to 13,050 ha (about 73% of the SAR
estimate); to date, only 3,810 ha have been replanted under the program.
vi.    The main thnist of the research component was to strengthen the capacity of the Cocoa Research
Institute of Ghana (CRIG) to deliver the necessary scietific and technical support to the cocoa industry, which
was broadly achieved. Research/extension linkages have been strengthened, but there still is much need for
improvement as regards translating research findings into appropriate extension messages.
vii.    Under the frm input supply component COCOBOD began, as planned, to phase out subsidies in
1988/89, but no action was taken to privatize the marketing channel. To comply with policy reforms supported
by AgSAC after 1992, COCOBOD initiated a process of identifying private companies to take over the
markting of inputs, but eventually aborted this process and instead sold all its input stocks to the Coffee, Cocoa
and Sheanut Farmers Association (CCSFA), effectively making CCSFA the sole distributor for cocoa production
inputs in the country. COCOBOD continued to import and distribute inputs on behalf of the CCSFA unil June
1995. Funding was provided by CCSFA from sales receipts, and shortfalls due to the continuation of below-cost
sales have been covered from the compensation fund which is administered by CCSFA. CCSFA still subsidizes
inputs at between 40 and 85 percent, thus not only depleting the compensation fund, which was designed for price
sabilization, but also effectively preventing the emergence of a competitive private input marketing system while
sustainin an active black market and cross-border trade in essential agro-chemicals.
viii.   At appraisal it was considered premature to attempt the immediate privatization of domestic cocoa
rnma~lin and emphasis was placed instead on enhancing the efficiency of COCOBOD's purchasing,
evacuation, storage, inspection and infestation control activities. A marketing strategy was to be formulated and
agreed upon at the mid-term review. Following the appraisal recommendations, purchasing operations were
stamlined, vehicles and eqLuipment procured and 16 new transit sheds built. In March 1992, COCOBOD was
required under AgSAC to introduce competition into the internal marketing of cocoa beans. By 1995/96, 11
private Licensed Buying Companies (LBCs) were operating; procuring about 101,000 tons of beans, equivalent
to about 25 percent of total deliveries. Enhanced private involvement is constrained by LBC difficulties in
aessg working capital and by lack of vehicles, equipment and facilities. The purchase of jute sacks for an
esfimated US$4.7 million did not materialize due to unusually protracted procurement difficulties.
ix.    To strengthen COCOBOD's policy analysis capacity, its Policy Planning, Monitoring and Research
Department (PPMRD) was reorganized as planned, a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was established and a
Management Information Service and data bank were set up. Only two of the four major studies planned have
been completed, however, leaving the infonmation base for sectoral monitoring and policy formulation very weak.
x      The roads program was not carried out as planned. When the project was prepared, COCOBOD had its
own budget for mantenance and rehabilitation of roads in cocoa producing areas and for the construction and
maitenance of low-standard feeder roads to cocoa producing villages ("cocoa roads'). Bythe time of appraisal,
GOG had instructed the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) of the Ministry of Roads and Highways to take over
full responsibility for cocoa feeder roads, and implementation of the roads component was assigned to it. DFR
subsequendy raised major objections concening the technical standards of the cocoa roads and the proposed
emphasis on spot improvement and mainteance. When these issues were resolved after about three years, the
roads wgeted for spot improvement and maintnance had deteriorated so much that most required complete
vi



rehabilitation. Even then, DFR failed to act expeditiously in preparing work programs for tendering and approval
by IDA. At credit closing, only 275 km of roads and three bridges were completed under the IDA credit. ADF
financed the rehabilitation of 404 km of roads, and COCOBOD funded the rehabilitation of 450 km of the 750
km of roads targeted for using labor-based contractors. None of the planned 60 km of new feeder roads and 80
km of new tracks had been constructed, but 22 (of the 25 planned) steel bridges supplied by ODA were installed.
With an aggregate of 1,129 kni, the roads component achieved only 38 percent of the 3,000 km planned.
xi.    The project suffered implementation difficulties throughout its history. Co-financing arrangements were
only finalized in October 1989, resulting in a start-up delay of several components. Major problems included
frequent changes in the senior staff of COCOBOD and the generally low staff morale throughout the
organization, because of the ongoing restructuring and retrenchment associated with the privatization and/or
discontinuation of many of COCOBOD's traditional activities. In the absence of clearly defined responsibilities
for project management, coordination and execution, the decision making process was extremely cumbersome.
Performance improved following a change in COCOBOD management in early 1994, causing IDA to agree to
two successive one-year extensions of the credit closing date to June 1996 to complete various civil works, order
outstanding equipment and provide continued support to the CSSVDC program. Nevertheless, US$18.2 million
remained undisbursed when the credit closed and were canceled. GOG's and COCOBOD's combined
contributions of US$14.9 million fell substantially short of the US$37 million expected at appraisal, and total
project cost have been re-est d at US$87.1 million.
xu. The Bank failed to ensure sufficient political support and project ownership within the implementing
agencies. Project management and implementation arrangements were not sufficiently well defined, and the
technical specification for the roads component were established without taking into account the views of the
technical staff of the implementing agency. Arrangements for project supervision changed during implementation
and were not always fully effective.
xiu.   The failure of COCOBOD to put in place effective arrangements for project management, establish a
workable system for the procurement of goods and services and adhere consistently to the Bank's procurement
guidelines substantially impeded implementation and in particular procurement. Another major problem was the
persistent failure to achieve agreement among concemed agencies on implementing agreed project components,
notably the roads component and the unification of agricultural extension services. COCOBOD also made
inadequate efforts to foster the privatization process, especially for input supplies. The transfer of responsibility
for input supply from COCOBOD to CCSFA must be considered more a circumvention, rather than
implementation, of the agreement to privatize input marketing. DFR's failure to act in a timely manner resulted
in substantial further deterioration of the road system in the cocoa areas and a drastic shortfall of implementation
and disbursements under the roads component. The Borrower did well, however, in implementing the agreements
regarding COCOBOD's restructuring and, after 1992, opening domestic cocoa marketing to the private sector.
xiv.   The outcome of the project has to be assessed against the background of world price developments for
cocoa, changes in the macro-economic environment, as well as preceding and contenporaly operations in support
of economic recovery and/or specifically of the cocoa subsector in Ghana. The central project objective,
stabilizing cocoa production at about 300,000 tons per annum, was already within reach in 1988/89, the year the
credit became effective, when production (or purchases by COCOBOD) totaled just over 300,000 tons.
Substantial increases in the administratively fixed producer prices (113 percent in real terns) implemented during
1984/85-1987/88 had already revived fanner interest and induced considerable new plantings of cocoa trees,
resulting in the surge of production in the late 1980s. Thereafter, sharply faling interational prices and failure to
adjust producer prices adequately for domestic inflation caused a substantial decline in real producer prices, and
cocoa production remained essentially stagnant from 1988/89 through 1994/95 at around 300,000 tons per year.
World market prices began to rise again in 1993/94, and as the producers' share of the fob price was also
vii



increased from 25 percent 1993/94 to almost 45 percent in 1995/96, growers again responded to the improved
production incentives, and the 1995/96 crop, also favored by excellent weather, totaled 403,850 tons.
xv.    The project's production objective was to be achieved through the rehabilitation of existing cocoa
plantings, new plantings, and replantings under the CSSVDC program. By project closing, about 250,000 ha
had been placed under improved management, and 39,000 ha had been replanted. In the absence of reliable
stabstics on cocoa acreage, age of trees and yields, esimates of incremental production due to measures taken
under the project are necessarily very crude. Moreover, the output response to these measures has also been
significantly affected by the sharp variations in faimers' price incentives prior to and throughout the project
period. Nevertheless, the incremental cocoa production attributable to the combined effect of project measures
and to improved producer incentives alter 1993/94 is estimated at about 100,000 tons p.a. at present and might
rise to about 115,000 tons per year by the year 2002 (at full maturity of the newly planted trees). In this respect,
the outcome of the combined measures taken under the project and the subsequent AgSAC has, thus, been
satisfactory. This is reflected by a re-estimated ERR of 24% against an appraisal estimate of 23%.
xvi.   Many, but not all, of the institutional objectives have been achieved. COCOBOD has been significantly
stramlned, research and extension activities have been strengthened and focused, and extension-research
linkages have been strengthened. Progress towards promoting the emergence of an effective private input
marketing systemn has not been satisfactory. As a result of actions taken in the context of AgSAC, private sector
involvement in domestic cocoa marketing, on the other hand, has progressed significantly beyond what was
expected at appraisal. And a feeder road maintenance management system has been established, aimed at
ensurig adequate and timely funding of maitenance of the roads rehabilitated under the project.
xvii. The poor implementation experience does not allow a satisfactory rating for this project. While
measures taken and investments implemented under the project have strengthened institutional capacity, physical
fcilities and service performance in the subsector, the production effect was muted until significant policy reform
neasures to improve farmers' production incentives were implemented in the context of AgSAC.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xviii. The most important findings are that: (a) for projects which envisage a multiplicity of policy and
institutional changes, from the beginning local commitment and project ownership has to be ensured from both
policy makers and implementing agencies; (b) project management, implementation and prurment
arrangements must be clearly defined and agreed upon by all parties; (c) extraneous factors, such as major
changes in international commodity prices, exchange rates, inflation rates, climatic conditions, etc., can be crucial
for the success or failure of have paramount effects and supersede the impact of the project per se; and (d)
complex multi-component projects require periodic multi-disciplinary supervision missions.
xix. While the investments in staff development, physical facilities and rural roads appear sustainable, overall
sustainability of the project is not certain. The opportunities created by the partial liberalization of domestic
cocoa marketing and COCOBOD's withdrawal from input marketing have not yet been fully taken up by private
entrepreneurs. GOG remains commied to liberalization, but further action will be needed to ensure that the
progress made on the institutional front and in marketing and pricing policy is sustined. This concerns, for
example, the arragements between COCOBOD and CCSFA for financing, importing and marketing agro-
chemicals and the regulatory constraints on fertilizer imports, but also the institutional and policy environment for
private involvement in cocoa marketing. GOG has indicated its intent to merge COCOBOD's extension service
with that of MOFA, to take action in support of more private sector involvement in domestic cocoa marketing,
and to increase the faners' share in the fob price to at least 60 percent within two or three years.
viti



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1854-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.    The project was the third IDA-financed cocoa project in the country. The first two, the Eastern Cocoa
Project (Cr. 205-GH) and the Ashanti Cocoa Project (Cr. 1181-GH), were implemented during 1970-1979 and
1975-1982, respectively, with the main aim to replant and rehabilitate about 50,000 ha of cocoa. Both suffered
from low farmer participation owing to inadequate returns at prevailing producer prices. In 1983 the
Government of Ghana (GOG) initiated a series of policy reforms, including in the cocoa subsector, aimed at
removing constraints and promoting the export earning industries. IDA supported these reforms through three
projects: (i) First Reconstruction Inport Credit, (ii) Export Rehabiltation Project, and (ii) First Structural
Adjustnent Credit (SAC-I). The subsequent Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (CRP) was not only to help implement
key policy agreemes already reached under the earlier credits, but also to address major investment and
institutional constraints in the sector.
2.     Based on a cocoa sector study carried out by the Bank in 1980, the project was first identified in 1981,
and a prefeasibility study was carried out in the same year. Further preparatory work was suspended due nainly
tD an unfavorable economic environment and unresolved policy issues. The project was re-identified by the Bank
in 1985, prepared in 1986 and appraised in 1987.
Project Objectives and Components
3.     The main project objectives were to: (a) support the policy reforms in the cocoa sector agreed under the
first Structural Adjustment Credit, and (b) increase cocoa production and yields to stabilize output at an annual
level of about 300,000 tons, mainly through the rehabilitation of 300,000 ha of existing cocoa and the replanting
of about 57,000 ha. This was to be achieved by: (i) maintaining producer price incentives; (ii) improving the
institutional efficiency of COCOBOD, notably in extension, seed production, disease control, and by gradually
privatzing input distribution; (iii) improving cocoa evacuation and quality control; (iv) implementing a road
rehabilitation program; and (v) strengthening cocoa research. The project comprised nine main components:
(i) Technical Services for Cocoa Production, including the reorganization, decentralization and
training of staff of the Cocoa Services Division (CSD) of the Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD);
(ii) Extension Services for Improved Technologv, through reorganization, training, technical
assistance as well as provision of vehicles, equipment and buildings, including the renovation of
the Bunso Cocoa College, 17 farner training centers and 150 staff houses;
(iii) Seed Production and Distribution, by improving existing and establishing new seed gardens, staff
training, and reorganizing seed distribution on commercial principles;



(iv) Cocoa Swollen Shoot Virus Disease Control (CSSVDC), mainly through the cutting out and
replanting of about 17,000 ha with CSSVD-resistant varieties against incentive payments to
finners, and including training, technical assistance, vehicles and equipment;
(v)            i mainly by providing assistance to the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana (CRIG)
through staff development, rehabilitation and up-keep of facilities, and the establishment of an 'on-
farm' fanming systems research unit;
(vi) Farm Input Supply, to gradually introduce a subsidy removal and pnvatization program for cocoa
inputs and including the import of agro-chemicals;
(vii) Internal Marketing to enhance efficiency of the marketing system by introducing a commercial
approach and encouraging competition, including rationalization of buying system and stations,
provision of vehicles, equipment, training and technical expertise;
(viii) Monitoring and Evaluation by establishing an M&E Unit within the PPMR Department of
COCOBOD and additional units in the Cocoa Services Division (CSD) and the Produce Buying
Company Ltd. (PBC), including the provision of training, equipment, expertise, equipping a
library, and funding for several studies; and
(ix)  Road Pro    consisting mainly of 3,000 km of spot improvement pardy by labor-intensive
methods, a recurrent maintenance program increasing from 600 km in Project Year 1 to 2,100 km
in Project Year 5, as well as the construction of 60 km of new roads, 80 km of tracks and two
major bridges.
4.     The project objectives were clear, realistic and at the time most relevant to the country and the sector. A
mrajor underlying assumption, however, proved to be incorrect. At appraisal it was forecast that international
cocoa prices would gradually increase from about US$2,000/ton in 1986/87 to US$2,360 at credit closing.
These forecasts proved to be flawed, as incremental production in Indonesia, Malaysia and Ivory Coast; resulting
from new planings made in the late 1970s and early 1980s, substantially exceeded growth in world demand
during the second half of the 1980s, with a depressing effect on world prices. At the time of appraisal,
COCOBOD's and GOG's share in the fob export price was about 70 percent, implying the availability of ample
fimds for project countrpart financing and other cocoa sector support measures by government. The low
firmers' share ofthe fob price, on the other hand, was considered a major obstacle to further production increases
and to be addressed under the project. The official famngate price at that time stood at 0 85/kg - about
US$550/ton equivalent or about 28 percent of the world market price.
5.     Designed to achieve a rapid rehabilitation of the cocoa sector, the project was quite demanding for the
Borrower. It attempted to address a wide range of institutional reforms, including reorganization of COCOBOD
and retrenchment of stafE and policy issues (e.g., divestiture, elimination of input subsidies, privafization of input
marketing) simultaneously with a number of geographically dispersed physical action programs. For the five-
year project, Credit 1854-GH in the amount of SDR 31.3 million (US$40.0 million equivalent at appraisal) was
approved on December 1, 1987, and became effective on November 15, 1988. Total project costs were estimated
at US$128.0 million, with co-financing to be provided by ADB/ADF (US$33.0 million) and other co-financiers
(US$18 nillion) and counterpart contributions of US$16.1 million and US$20.9 million, respectively, by GOG
and COCOBOD.
6.    Implementation of the policy and institutional reform agenda supported by the project received a strong
boost with the coming into effect, in June 1992, of the Agriculural Sector Adjustmt Credit (AgSAC). AgSAC
2



supported, inter aba, a program of actions to: (a) rationalize the operations and reduce operating cost of
COCOBOD, (b) abolish the monopsony of the Produce Buying Company Ltd. (PBC), a COCOBOD subsidiary,
in the purchase of cocoa from farmers and implement a program for private sector entry into domestic cocoa
marketing, (c) improve the transparency of determination of prices, fees and taxes applicable in the cocoa sector,
and gradually increase the share of the export price received by cocoa growers, and (d) eliminate govemment
control of fertilizer marketing margins and phase out public commercial participation in farm input marketing.2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.     Overall Achievement. The central project objective, increasing   Cocoa Production, 1985/861996/97
cocoa yields and production so as to stabilize output at an annual level   Cca ru on,c185/6(t96/9
of about 300,000 tons, was already within reach in 1988/89, the year  1984/85      174,813
the credit became effective, when production (or sales to COCOBOD)  1985/86        219,937
totaled 300,155 tons - almost 50 percent more than the average     1986/87         227,765
recorded for the preceding four years. Indeed, despite temporary set-    1987/88   187,360
backs in 1991/92 and 1993/94, cocoa production averaged slightly over  1988/89     300,155
1989(90         308,178
300,000 tons per annum for the entire period from 1988/89 through  1990/91         293,352
1996/97. Although some of this increase may be attributable to the  1991/92        242,817
major publicity drive by COCOBOD rekindling farmers' interest as   1992193         312,123
well as to enhanced contacts of CSD and CRIG staff with fanmers, the  1993/94      254,654
major impetus for the rise in output came from the improvement of the  1995/96     403,850
macro-economic and sectoral policy framework, including substantial  1996/97    335,000 prelim.
increases in growers' prices from 1985/86 onward (see paras. 43ff).
Moreover, producer prices in neighboring Togo and Cote d'Ivoire were sharply reduced in 1988/89 and 1989/90,
respectively, largely eliminating the price incentives for cross-border sales of cocoa.3
8.     It is not clear, therefore, what portion of the increased production    Raio of
(over 403,000 tons in 1995/96, some 335,000 tons in 1996/97) can be   Cocoa Producer Prices in US$,
attibuted directly to the project.4 Nevertheless, with renewed farmer interest,  Ghana;te d'Ivoire
by project closing about 250,000 ha - or about one quarter of Ghana's entire
cocoa area - had been placed under improved mmagement (SAR target for   1984/85           0.75
"rehabilitation": 300,000 ha), and replanting (including 3,810 ha under the  198586       0.6520
CSSVDC program) has reached 38,867 ha against an appraisal estimate of  1987/88           0.58
57,000 ha.                                                              1988/89           0.52
1989/90          0.79
9.     In contrast, performance in implementing the various components  1991/92           0.863
(see para. 4(i)-ix)) designed to support the achievement of the overall  1992J93          0.61
objectives has been mixed, as described in more detail below, bearing in mind  1993/94    0.72
that start-up of all activities was affected by the late finalization of the  1994/95     1.02
financing plan (see pam. 29).
2All three AgSAC rnches were released and the credit was fully disbursed on January 23, 1996.
31In Togo, the fanmgate pnce was reduced from CFAF 300/kg in 1987/88 to CFAF 225/kg for the 1988/89 season; in CMte d'Ivoire, it
was halved fiom CFAF 400/kg in 1988/89 to CFAF 200/g for 1989/90.
4Nei1her the cocoa survey, hich is to provide an updated inventory of the country's cocoa acreage and tree stDck, nor the study of socio-
economic aspects of cocoa fanning, which would pemit a proper assessment of farmers' response to vanous support msures, have
been completed as yet (see para. 24 and Table 7).
3



10.    Technical Services for Cocoa Production. At the time of appraisal, the Cocoa Services Division (CSD)
of COCOBOD was responsible for exension, seed production, disease control and input supply. The aim of this
project component was to reorganze CSD to enhance its efficiency, ensure effective supervision, allow better use
of limited numbers of slklled staff, prmote specializion, and reduce costs. The reorganization was carried out
fully in line with the SAR proposal, and CSD with its headquarters in Accra now operates 6 regional offices and
39 district offices (reduced from 101). lIn 1993, further efforts were made to reduce staff, mostly at district level,
and additional cuts took place in 1994 with the divestment of input marketing. During the project period, overall
CSD staffing was reduced from 16,128 to 3,432. Although a consultant employed for 18 months to identify
training needs of extension staff and develop training curricula did not produce satisfctory assessments and
recommendatons, CSD formulated a staff development program and identified essental staff trainng needs.
However, due mainly to problems in the decision making process, only 13 senior staff benefited from training
abroad (in management M&E, plant protection, seed production, etc.) for a total of 124 person/weeks. As
proposed, a small M&E unit was established in CSD and is functioning as a useful management tool; the absence
of reliable up-to-date baseline information on essental physical and socio-economic parameters of the country's
cocoa sector constitutes a significant impedient to sector analysis and policy formulation (see also para. 8, fn. 4,
and para. 24).
11.    Extension Services for Lmproved Technology. CSD's cocoa extension service was reorganized, placing
emphasis on direct contact wi farmers. The CSD districts were divided into 1,465 units of approximnately 1,200
ha of cocoa each.5 Each unit was further divided into 16 sub-units individually visited by an Extension Field
Assistant (EFA) on one unchanging day in four-week working cycles. The T&V method of extension has been
adopted, fanmer contacts are made by utilizing target or contact finners, and the extension/research linkages have
been substantially improved (see para. 20). Farmers are represented on the management committee of CSD and
CRIG.
12.    702 EFA's were trained at Bunso Cocoa College for a total of 2,937 staff-months. To ensure adequate
staff mobilty, a total of 110 4WD vehicles and 1,900 motorcycles were procured under the project; the latter
were given out on a loan/purchase basis to field staff In addition, 18 trucks and 4 buses were received by CSD.
13.    The program for rehabilitating and renovating the classrooms, dining and donmitory buildings, providing
improved teaching equipment and upgrading of roads at Bunso Cocoa College was satisfactorily implemented.
The college now can accommodate up to 400 students for each of its 4-months training sessions. The building
contractors generally performed well. One contractor experienced cash flow problems towards the end of his
contract and was able to complete only about 90 percent of his obligations; the college authorities expect to finish
the work (two classrooms and two dormitories) with COCOBOD resources. Only six of the 17 farmer trainng
centers were improved, and none of the staff houses were renovated, as this was no longer perceived as an urgent
need. Reallocating funds not needed for this subcomponent and for storage facilities which were no longer
required due to the liberalization of internal cocoa marketing, IDA agreed to finance the completion of
COCOBOD's regional office in Kumasi, but delays in awarding contracts and poor contractor performance
prevented completion ofthis work by project closing.
14.    The component also envisaged a pilot program for the unification of cocoa extension services with the
general agricultural extension service of the Ministry of Agriculture (now Ministry of Food and Agriculture -
MOFA), whereby MOFA was to be made responsible for cocoa extension in half of the CSD districts of Volta
Region and CSD for non-cocoa crops in half of Brong-Ahafo Region, beginning in 1989. The main reasons for
the non-implementation of this sub-component are the continuing insistence of COCOBOD on the need for a
5 As much as 40 percent of this overall total "cocoa area" is, however, no longer planted to cocoa, as a result of past neglectk CSSVD,
and the devastaing fies of 1983.
4



separate extension service to address sector specific issues and CSD staff resistance fearing a downward
adjustnent of their wages to those of MOFA which are, at present, about 35 percent lower. Despite repeated
public announcements by GOG of its intention to unify agncultural extension services, this issue remains
unresolved and the extension services of MOFA and CSD continue to operate in parallel.
15.    Seed Production and Distribution. Anticipating rising demand for seed under the replanting and new
planting program, CSD's seed production potential was to be increased from about 1.9 million pods annually to
about 3.2 million pods per year. Adjusting to lower than appraised demand, CSD has increased the production of
the existng seed garden (mainly by expanding the area of the garden by 60 ha) to about 2.2 million pods per year
and has established a new seed garden in 1990 with 24 ha (against an SAR estimate of 80 ha) in the Western
Region. Total 1995/96 output amounted to 2.2 million pods, of which 1.9 million were distributed. The
proposed pilot imgated seed garden to determine the feasibility of increased pod production throughout the year
was not established because of disagreement with IDA over the scope and cost of major elements of this facility
and, hence, the economic justification of the proposed investments. The training program was implemented as
planned, including that of the newly appointed seed garden coordinator. The arrangements suggested in the SAR
for distribution of seed pods were followed, but pods are still sold at a highly subsidized price of 010 against a
corresponding dry weight market price of 046 and actual estimated production cost of 0260.
16.    Cocoa Swollen Shoot Virus Disease Control (CSSVDC). A total of 17,930 ha of diseased cocoa trees
were to be cut out and 17,330 ha to be replanted. Affected farmers were to receive a cutfing-out and replanting
grant, m three tranches, equivalent to four years' loss of production; the rates were to be adjusted each year in line
with changing producer prices. The financing arrangements for this component were changed several times
during the project period. The original DCA specified an amount of US$5.0 to be provided for incentive
payments. At a donors' meeting in October 1989 it was decided to reallocate these funds to the roads component,
with the funding for CSSVD control to be fully provided by COCOBOD. The mid-term review mission in
March 1992 recommended to transfer these funds back to the CSSVDC program since they were not being
disbursed under the roads component, while the falling international cocoa prices made it difficult for
COCOBOD to fince the program from its own resources. In a subsequent revision, however, funding for
incentive payments was again eliminated from the IDA credit.
17.    From 1988/89 to 1993/94, COCOBOD cut out about 3.6 million aflhcted trees (on about 5,000 ha).
From July 1994 onwards a "cordon sanitire" program was initiated, separatng the areas of mass infection in the
Eastern Region from areas with only scattered outbreaks of the disease. Given the urgent need to accelerate the
CSSVDC program in this belt, the European Union (EU) agreed to provide STABEX fiuds for incentive
payments, 6 while IDA financed vehicles and equipment. During the remaining two years until credit closing,
another 8,056 ha (some 12.1 million trees) were cut out, bringing the total to 13,050 ha or about 73 percent of the
SAR estimate. At the same time 3,810 ha have been replanted under the program. The surge in activities frorn
1994 onwards can be pardy attributed to better management, but mosdy to the provision of adequate funding for
incentive payments to farmers and the restoration of the real value of these payments from 1994/95 onward.7
6 A total of ECU 3.4 million was to be provided and to be released in two tranches of ECU 1.7 million each. The first tranche was
released in 1994, and the second is expected to be released dwing 1997.
7 The incentive payment for the initial yea of cutting out remained unchanged at %120,000nha from 1991/92 through 1993/94, thus
declning from 48% of the produces' cocoa price in 1991/92 to 390/o of the producers' price in 1993/94 (and firm 27%e of the world
market price for cocoa in 1991/92 to less than 100/o of the world market price in 1993/94), but was restored to 48% ofthe producers'
pnce and about 24% ofthe world market pnce for cocoa in 1994/95, 1995/96 and 1996/97 (0336,000/ha in 1994/95, 0403,000/ha in
1995/96, 0576,000/ha in 1996/97).
5



18.    Research. The main objecive of this component was to stengte CRIG's capaity to deliver the
necessary scientific and technical support to the cocoa industry, mainly by (a) reoranizing its work prram, (b)
sti~gthening staff capacity, (c) rehabilitating and upgrding of facilites, and (d) establishing an "on-i.rm"
finning systems research unit (FSU). Whereas training, technical assistance, consultancies, vehicles and
equipment were mosdy funded by ODA, IDA financed infiastructu  rehabilitation. The work of the institute
was reorgazed into research thmsts, considerably improving the problem-orientation and multi-disciplinarity of
researci, and the new FSU has added the required farming systems perspective.
19.    Satisfctory progress was made in rehabilitatng physical plant and equipment, including the
laboratories, a plant quarantine house, electricity supply, a new print shop, and library acquisitions. Occasional
delays occurred in the rehabilitation program and the acquisition of equipment, but by credit closing most of the
appraisal tage  were achieved. The procurement process for establishing the quarantine facility was unduly
protrated, and the resulting delays prevented the contracted works to be completed before the credit closing date.
COCOBOD is now financing its completion. The technical assistance program supported by ODA was
particularly successful, and CRIG now has a well trained (in-house and overseas) and highly motivated
complemt of senior professional, technical and administrative staff.
20.    Eflbctive research/etension linkages have been established. These are coordinated by the Cocoa
Research and Extension Technical Committee (CRETEC), comprising appropriate staff from both CRIG and
CSD, which meets three to four times a year. The joint CSD/CRIG trials and outreach programs also foster
close collaboration. Nevertheless, there is still much room for improvement as regards translating research
ndins into extension messages appropriate for prevailing on-farm  socio-economic conditions as well as
assessing the relevance and impact of research on the farming community.
21.    FarTn Iput Supply. Over a five-year period, from 1988 to 1992, COCOBOD was to gradually remove
input subsidies and privatize first retailing then wholesaling and finally importation, allowing the private sector
sufficient time to develop a wide retail network with a minimum disruption in the supply system. COCOBOD
initiated, as planned, the subsidy removal process, but no action was iniated to privaize the marketing chanel.
Under pressure to comply with policy reforms being supported by AgSAC, COCOBOD initiated a prooess of
identfyig a substantial number of private companies to take over the markeng of inputs, but eventually (in
1993/94) aborted this process and instead sold all its input stocks to the Coffee, Cocoa and Sheanut Farmers
Association (CCSFA),8 effectively making CCSFA the sole distributor for cocoa production inputs in the
cuntry. CSD continued to import and distribute inputs on behalf of the CCSFA until June 1995. Funding was
provided by CCSFA from sales receipts, and shortfalls due to the coninuation of below-cost sales have been
covered from the compensation fund which is administered by CCSFA.9 Since July 1995, CCSFA has been
solely responsible for the entire procurement and distribution process, but CSD continues to assist with demand
forecasting and the leasing of some of its storage facilities. In 1996, it also assisted with arranging the
prourement of imported inputs. CCSFA continues to subsidize inputs at levels estimated to range between 40
and 85 percent thus not only depleting the campsation fund, which was originally designed for price
stabilization, but also effectively preventing the emergence of a competitive private input marketing system while
sustaining an active black market and cross-border trade in essential agro-chemicals.
sAll cocoa farmers are registered as members of so-called "societies" for the purpose of selling thei cocoa at the cocoa buying centers
established troughout the country, and CCSFA is the natonal umbrella ogazation of all these societies.
9'This fund is peinodically replenished by COCOBOD through payments intended to compensate cocoa growers for increases in export
prices beyond tose anticipated at the tme the producer prices are established prior to the annual cocoa purchasing season. It is meant
to provide additional revenue to cocoa growers.
6



22.    Intenal Cocoa Marketing. At appraisal it was considered premature, in view of the very poor state of
the road system and the weakness of the private sector, to attempt the immediate privatization of the cocoa
marketing system. Therefore, in designing this project component, emphasis was placed on enhancing the
efficiency of the Produce Buying Company (PBC - a wholly owned subsidiary of COCOBOD) in cocoa buying,
storng and handling, and of the inspection, grading and infestation control activities. The domestic cocoa
markeg arrangements would be reviewed and a marketing strategy formulated and agreed upon at the time of
the mid-ern review. Following the appraisal recommendation, the capacity threshold for autonomous societies
(cocoa buying centers, see para. 21, fnu. 7) was raised from 50 tons to 70 tons of cocoa bought, 656 societies were
closed, and 830 were converted into sub-societies. To facilitate efficient produce evacuation from the producing
areas, 40 tractors as well as tarpaulins were procured and 16 new transit sheds were built. The purchase of jute
sacks for an estimated US$4.7 million did not materialize due to unusually protracted procurment difficulties.
The M&E unit has been established and is functioning as planned, the haulage/logistics manager has been
employed locally instead of internationally, the cost accountant has been hired, and five officers of PBC were
trained.
23.   In March 1992, COCOBOD was required under AgSAC to introduce competition into the intemal
marketing of cocoa beans. By January 1993 two private companies had been licensed to commence purchasing
cocoa from farmers alongside PBC, and four others had been granted provisional licenses. By credit closing, 11
such Licensed Buying Companies (LBCs) were operating. In 1995/96, they procured about 101,000 tons of
beans, equivalent to about 25 percent of total deliveries. Enhanced private competition to PBC is constaied by
LBC difficulties in accessing sufficient working capital and by lack of vehicles, equipment tarpaulins, bags,
scales and storage facilities.10
24.    Monitorng and Evaluation. To strengthen COCOBOD's policy analysis capacity, its Policy Planning,
Monitoring and Research Department (PPMRD) was reorganized as planned, and within it a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit was established and a Management Information Service and data bank were set up. Three
officers were trained abroad in commodity pricing and two in MIS, monitoring and evaluation. The PPMRD and
its M&E Unit are considered by COCOBOD management to perfomr satisfactorily, but suffer from equipment
and mobility constraints. The post of manager of the M&E Unit is currently vacant Of the four major studies to
be undertaken, only two were completed by the time of credit closing (see Table 7), leaving the information base
for sectoral monitoring and policy formulation very weak.
25.    Road Program. This component was not carried out as planned. When the project was prepared,
COCOBOD had its own budget for maintenance and rehabilitation of roads in the main cocoa production areas
and for the construction and maintenance of low-standard feeder roads to cocoa producing villages ("cocoa
roads'). By the time of appraisal, GOG had instructed the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) of the Mnistry of
Roads and Highways to take over full responsibility for cocoa feeder roads, and implementation of the roads
component was assigned to it, using conractors under LCB/ICB procedures. Not having been involved in the
design of the project, DFR subsequently raised major objections, arguing that the technical standards of the cocoa
roads were inadequate and that the proposed emphasis on spot improvement and maitenance was inappropriate
for the existing condition of these roads and the climatic condition in the project areas. DFR also disagreed with
COCOBOD and IDA on various operational proposals, including those conceming technical assistance. When
the contentious issues were finally resolved after about three years, the roads targeted for spot improvement and
for mantenance had deteriorated so much that most required complete rehabilitation at substaially higher cost
than appraised.
' The ICR for the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Report No. 16502, dated May 2, 1997) provides details.
7



26.    By the time of credit closing, 275 km of roads and three bridges (instead of the two bridges originally
planned) were completed under the IDA credit at a combined cost of US$13.5 million. The cost of the iree
bridges constitutes 54 percent of the cost of the civil works funded by IDA. Under the same program 22 (out of
25 planned) steel bridges supplied by ODA were installed. The ADF financed the rehabilitation of 404 Ian of
roads at a cost of US$12.5 million. All contracts were awarded through ICB, with COCOBOD contributing the
equivalent of US$3.55 milion as counterpart funding. COCOBOD also financed with US$6.0 million equivalent
the rehabilitation of 450 km out of the 750 km of roads targeted for using labor-based contractors. Budgetary
constaints prevented work on the remaining 300 km. The contrts for the labor-based contractors were let
through reserved procurement procedures which IDA did not support, but which COCOBOD considered
necessary to sustain this technology. With an aggregate of 1,129 kn, the roads component achieved only 38
percent ofthe 3,000 km planned.
27.   None of the expected 60 km of new feeder roads and 80 km of new tracks were constructed. Although
bids were received for contracts under this sub-component, no construction was ntiated due to concers over
high unit costs and the environmental impact of some of the proposed roads.
28.    At appraisal GOG had agreed that routine and recurrent maintenance would be locally financed and
included in the approved annual operatng programs of DFR. The extent to which this was achieved could not be
judged because of the inability of DFR to distinguish those roads under routine and recurrent maintenance for the
specific purpose of evacuating cocoa. In 1997, DFR is expecting sufficient funding to undertake the routine and
recurrent maintenance of about 9,000 km of feeder roads, but could not specify the priority anes in the cocoa
areas.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
29.    Although the IDA credit became effective in November 1988, co-financing arrangements were only
finalized in October 1989, resulting in a substantial reallocation of IDA resources from agriculural components
to the roads component, with other cofinanciers funding more of the agriculturl activities. This shift was
partially reversed, followmg the mid-tenn review, with a DCA revision in 1993 which reallocated funds from the
roads component to the CSSVDC program and for the procurement of essential equipment needed to support the
liberalization of domestic cocoa marketing. A further reallocation was effected in 1994, when the EU agreed to
finance the incentive payments under the CSSVDC program with STABEX funds, with IDA resources shifted to
the fumding of vehicles, equipment and civil works.
30.    The project suffered implementation difficulties from the start and throughout its history. Among the
problems were frequent changes in the senior staff of COCOBOD (three different Project Coordinators and three
different Chief Executives during the project period). This was compounded by the generally low staff morale
troughout the organization, because of the ongoing restructuring and retrenchment associated with the
privaiztion and/or discontinuation of many of COCOBOD's traditional activities (conditioned in part by the first
Struul Adjustment Credit, effective in FY87, and subsequently the AgSAC, effective FY92).
31.   In the absence of clearly defined responsibilities for project management, coordination and execution, the
decision making process leading to implementation was extremely cumbersome. This afficted in particular the
procurement of goods and services, as roles and responsibilities for procurement were not properly delineated.
This, together with fiequent non-adherence to Bank procurement guidelines, repeatedly slowed project
inplementation to a virtual stand-stiDl. By March 1992 (mid-term review), only about US$3.0 milion were
disbursed, against an appraisal esfimate of US$27.0 million. Performance improved following the installation of
8



new COCOBOD management in early 1994, causing IDA to agree to a one-year extension of the credit closing
date to June 1995. IDA subsequently agreed to a second one-year extension to June 1996 to complete various
civil works and order outstanding equipment and to provide continued support to the CSSVDC program.
Nevertheless, US$18.2 million (SDR 13.1 milion equivalent), most of it allocated for civil works, equipment and
materials, remained undisbursed when the credit closed in June 1996 and was eventually canceled. Although
1DA had recommended canceling part of the unused credit earlier, GOG did not agree, expecting improvements in
COCOBOD's procurement administration in the final project years which, however, did not materialize.
32.    As indicated by COCOBOD, the ODA alocation of US$11.9 million mostly for TA, training, vehicles,
equipment and civil works was fully utilized. ADB/ADF funds amounting to US$19.5 million were mostly used
for procuring cocoa inputs (US$12.5 milion), for extension, training and consultancies (US$4.9 million) and for
the improvement of internal marketing (US$2.5 milion). A BADEA contribution of US$4.1 million was used
mainly in support of cocoa extension. GOG's and COCOBOD's contributions, a combined US$14.9 miDlion, fell
substantially short of the US$16.1 milion and US$20.9 milion, respectively, expected at appraisal - due largely
to the significant depreciation of the Cedi over the project period, and partly to the fact that the incentive
payments under the CSSVDC program were mostly financed by the EU with STABEX funds and the substantial
shortfall in the road program.
33.   Including the estimated counterpart contributions of US$14.9 milion from GOG and COCOBOD
combined, total project cost have been re-estimated at US$87.1 million, about 68 percent of the SAR estimate
(see Tables 8A and 8B).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
34.    Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control. Project appraisal and the first few years of
implementation took place during a period of continuous and substantial decine in real world cocoa prices.
International cocoa prices stood at about US$2,000 per ton in 1986/87, but by 1992/93 they had fallen to about
US$1,120/ton, sharply reducing the profitability of cocoa production and dampening the interest of all
stakeholders to invest in the industry. Although GOG attempted to stabilize its fiscal revenues from cocoa
exports by sharply reducing the growers' share in the fob export price in 1992/93 and 1993/94 (see Table at
para. 43), declining revenues from cocoa exports accruing to GOG and COCOBOD in turn contributed to the
poor disbursement histoxy of the project.
35.    Factors Subject to Government Control. As a result of GOG's decision to abolish exchange rate
controls, the Cedi depreciated steeply from 160 per US$ at appraisal to nearly , 1,600 per US$ at credit closing,
thus considerably improving incentives for producers of export commodities. However, the very high rate of
domestic inflation from 1992 until the present, largely caused by lack of fiscal discipline, has considerably eroded
the incentives provided by the liberalized exchange rate regime. Moreover, the export monopoly of CMC,
COCOBOD's marketing subsidiary, and the substantial decline both in the farmers' share of the fob price and in
real producer prices from 1991/92 through 1993/94 (attributable to the failure of the administratively determined
producer price to keep pace with changes in domestic inflation and the exchange rate and to GOG's attempt to
protect fiscal revenues from cocoa exports in an environment of declining world cocoa prices) combined to cause
a severe erosion of producer incentives during critical years of project implementation. Since 1994/95, the
Borrower has, however, taken steps to raise famngate prices and to effect a significant improvement in the
profitability of cocoa production.
36.    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. The failure of COCOBOD to establish
appropriate project management and implementation mechanisms substantially slowed down project
implementation and in particular the procurement of goods and services. The fact that, at the time the credit was
9



closed and the grace penod for disbursements had expired, disbursement requests amounting to over US$7
million could not be processed by IDA due to late or improper procurement or late submission of reimbursement
claims is teing evidence of this failure. COCOBOD also made very inadequate efforts to foster the pnvatization
process, especially for input supplies. Although it adhered to the agreed program of phasing out input subsidies,
the manner in which it complied with the agreement to withdraw from input marketing (i.e., handing over of all
of its cocoa inputs to CCSFA, and providing continued assistance to CCSFA in input procurement) has
effectively created a new monopolistic input supply system and is crowding out private importers and
distributors. With CCSFA marketing its supplies far below costs, this also continues to fuel an active ilicit
domestic and cross-border trade in cocoa production inputs (see para. 21).
37.    Subsequent to the protracted discussions on road improvement and rehabilitation specifications, DFR -
as implementing agency for the road component - should have taken decisive action by preparing work programs
on an annual priority basis, for tendering and approval by MDA. Failure to act in a timely fashion resulted in
substantial further deterioration of the road system in the cocoa areas, much higher costs for eventual
rehabilitation, and a drastic shortfll of implementation and disbursements under the roads component.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38.    The program of public sector withdrawal from commercial activities has not progressed to the expected
stage. The opportunities created by the partial liberalization of domestic cocoa marketing and the withdrawal of
COCOBOD from input marketing have not yet been fully taken up by private entrepreneurs. This is due to a
combination of reasons, including the manner in which responsibility for input marketing was shifted from
COCOBOD to CCSFA (see paras. 21 and 36), lack of capital, facilities, logistics and training/experience in the
private sector (see para. 23), remaining regulatory constraints,'" and slow growth of effective demand and poor
rural transport infrastructure in most parts of the country. While GOG remains committed to its liberalization
policy, further action will be needed to ensure that the progress made on the institutional front and in marketing
and pricing policy is sustained. This concerns, for example, the arrangements between COCOBOD and CCSFA
for financing, importing and marketing agro-chemicals and the regulatory constraints on ferilizer imports.
39.    The investments in physical facilities and staff development appear sustainable.  There is some
uncertainty about the future of the CSSVDC program once the allocated STABEX funds have been fully drawn,
but the program will be considerably smaller in future since most of the backlog has been cleared and the sanitary
belt established. The proposed transfer of CRIG to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR),
recommended by consultants in a recent study of Ghana's cocoa sector, would likely imply changes in the manner
of its funding, and care will need to be taken to ensure continued adequate financing of this important institute and
its activities. The rural roads component appears sustainable now that due priority for maintenance is accorded
by DFR in its strategic maintenance plan to roads in the main cocoa production areas.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
40.    The perfonrance of the Bank was not of uniform quality throughout the project cycle. Up to the time of
appraisal, it failed to ensure sufficient political support and project ownership within the implementing agencies.
Project management and implementation arrangements were not sufficiently well defined, and the technical
specification for the roads component were established without taking into account the views of the technical staff
of DFR, the implementing agency for this component.
"  The major impediment concems regulations on "approved fertilizers" that can be imported and marketed in Ghana; this has
constrained the development of a private network of agricultural input providers. Mhis issue has been reviewed and is now being
addressed by GOG.
10



41.    Arrangements for project supervision changed during the course of implementation and were not always
fully effective. From credit effectiveness through the mid-term review (M%arch 1992), four full supervision
missions were fielded from Headquarters. Thereafter, responsibility for day-to-day supervision was assigned to
the Resident Mission in Accra, while visiting HQ-based staff focused on specific project aspects, particularly the
roads component and agricultural aspects. No comprehensive supervision mission from HQ took place between
March 1992 and March 1995 (see Table 13), and supervision visits from other cofinanciers rarely coincided with
those by IDA. This may have contributed to IDA's failure to press more forcefully for effective remedial action
to redress the serious deficiencies in project management. IDA responded well to the Borrower's needs by
extending the credit closing date twice by one year and reallocating funds among components to respond to
changing priorities and other financiers' program preferences during the project life. Attempts to secure
Borrower agreement to partial cancellation of credit funds that were evidently not going to be utilized were
unsuccessful (see para. 31).
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42.    The main weakness of the Borrower - specifically of COCOBOD, the main implementing agency - was
its failure, until the very end of the project, to put in place effective arrangements for project management. This
was coupled with the persistent failure to establish a workable system for the procurement of goods and services
and to adhere consistently to the Bank's procurement guidelines. Some improvement took place starting in 1994,
but was insufficient to overcome the huge accumulated disbursement gap and prevent a sizable portion of the
credit from having to be canceled at credit closing. Another major problem was the persistent failure to achieve
agreement among concemed agencies on implementing agreed project components, notably the roads component
and the unification of agricultural extension services. And the transfer of responsibility for input supply from
COCOBOD to CCSFA must be considered more a circumvention, rather than implementation, of the agreement
concerning the privatization of input marketing. The Borrower did well, however, in implementing the
agreements regarding COCOBOD's restructuring and downsizing and, once the requisite support was
forthcoming in the context of the AgSAC program, opening domestic cocoa marketing to the private sector.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
43.    The outcome of the project has to be assessed against  Cocoa Producer Prices in Ghana
the background of world market price developments for cocoa,            const           % of
changes in the macro-economic environment (including the       current 1989/90  current  ICCO
sharp depreciation of the Cedi), as well as preceding and      Cedi/ka  Cedi/ka   US$/t  price/a
contemporary operations in support of economic recovery  1984/85    30.0   114    601    26.7
and/or specifically of the cocoa subsector in Ghana.  As  1985/86    56.6   177    693    33.5
1986/87    85.0   192    641    32.2
indicated, production (or rather sales to COCOBOD) had  1987/88   150.0   254    796    50.1
already reached the project "target" of 300,000 tons in  1988/89   165.0   223    649    52 3
1988/89, the year the project became effective.   The  1989/90   174.4   174    556    43.8
substantial increases in producer prices implemented each year  1990/91   224 0    181    626    52.2
1991/92   251.2   185    616    56.0
during the period 1984/85-1987/88 as part of  iOG's  1992/93   258.0   156    440    39.3
Economic Recovery Program (and following the devastating  1993/94   308.0   151    346    24.8
bush fires of 1983/84) had already revived farmer interest and  1994/95   700.0   229    630    43.8
induced considerable new plantings of cocoa trees, resulting m  1995/96   840.0   205    62  37 3
the revival of production in the late 1980s. Adjusted for
domestic inflation, the increase in the producer price frnm Cedi  a rdkative world market price as reported by the Intemational
from CedI Cocoa Organization ICCO.
30,000/t in 1984/85 to Cedi 150,000/t in 1987/88 represented
an increase of 113 percent in real temis. Thereafter, sharply falling international prices and failure to adjust
producer prices adequately for domestic inflation caused a substantial decline in real producer prices (in Cedi
11



terms), and by 1993/94 they had fallen to 68 percent of their 1988/89 level. In the face of detenorating pnce
incentives, cocoa production remained essentially stagnant for the six years from 1988/89 through 1994/95 at
around 300,000 tons per year. World market prices began to rise again in 1993/94 and have fluctuated around
US$1,400/ton for the past two years. As the producers' share of the fob price was also increased in several steps
from 25 percent 1993/94 to almost 45 percent in 1995/96, growers have again responded to the improved
production incentives, and the 1995/96 crop, also favored by excellent weather, totaled 403,850 tons.2
44.    The project's production objective was to be achieved through the rehabilitation of existing cocoa
planings, new plantings and replantings under the CSSVDC program. Reliable statistics on cocoa acreage, age
of trees and yields are not available (see also para. 8, fn. 4), and estimates of incremental production due to
measures taken under the project are therefore very crude. Moreover, the output response to these measures has
also been significantly affected by the sharp variations in farmers' price icentives prior to and throughout the
project period. Nevertheless, the incremental cocoa production attributable to the combined effect of project
measures and to improved producer incentives and increased use of agro-chemicals after 1993/94 is estimated at
about 100,000 tons p.a. at present and might rise to about 115,000 tons per year by the year 2002 (at fill
matunty of the newly planted trees). The outcome of the combined measures taken under the project and the
subsequent AgSAC has, thus, been satisfactory. This is reflected by a re-estimated ERR of 24% against an
appraisal estimate of 23% (see Table 9).
45.    Many, but not all, of the institutional objectives have been achieved. COCOBOD has been significantly
streamlined, research and extension activities have been strengthened and focused, and extension-research
linkages have been strengthened. Progress towards promoting the emergence of an effective private input
marketing system has not been satisfactory (see para. 21). As a result of actions taken in the context of AgSAC,
the involvement of the private sector in domestic cocoa marketing, on the other hand, has progressed significantly
beyond what was expected at the time of appraisal. The inpact of the project on rural transport infiastructure
has been far less than anticipated (see paras. 25-28), and poor road conditions in the areas left uncovered will
have a negative effect on cocoa production/marketing.
46.    Although aggregate cocoa production has exceeded the level identified as the central objective of the
project, the poor implementation experience does not allow a satisfactory rating for this project. While measures
taken and investrnents implemented under the project have strengthened institutional capacity, physical facilities
and service perfornance in the subsector, the production effect was muted until significant policy reform
measures to inprove farmers' production incentives were implemented in the context of AgSAC.
.L FUTURE OPERATIONS
47.    The Government remains comnmitted to enhancing the incentive framework for cocoa production. In-
depth assessments of remaining regulatory impediments to the growth of private input marketing (seeds,
fertilizers, agro-chemicals, livestock pharmaceuticals, etc.) have been carried out, and recommendations to
address these issues, developed at a recent national workshop, are now under review by MOFA and other
concerned ministries. COCOBOD has been placed under the supervision of the Minister of Finance and
Economic Planning, and its farm extension service is about to be merged with that of MOFA (see para. 14).
GOG is endeavoring to decrease the share of PBC in domestic cocoa marketing to 50 percent by the year 2000
and to increase the farmers' share in the fob price to at least 60 percent within two or three years (which would
bring the growers' share closer to the levels of 80 percent and more currently obtained by growers in Nigeria,
Cameroon, Indonesia and Malaysia).
12 Preliminary estimates are for a 1996/97 crop of about 335,000 tons.
12



48.    COCOBOD intends to apply a stringent staff policy with the main aim to further reduce operational
costs. The need to improve CRIG's capacity to translate research findings into readily acceptable extension
messages has been recognized and is being followed up. A feeder road maintenance management system has
been established under the ongoing National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr. 2319-
GH), aimed at ensuring the adequate and timely funding of maintenance of the roads rehabilitated under the
project
49.    Key indicators by which the project can be monitored and evaluated in the future are: (i) area under
cultivation, area planted with genetically superior hybrids, and yields; (ii) incidence of disease; (iii) quantities of
cocoa exported; (iv) producer's share in the fob export price; (v) share of LBCs in internal cocoa marketing; (vi)
number of private retailers of cocoa inputs; (vii) COCOBOD's staffing and operating cost; and (viii) revenues
generated for GOG and COCOBOD. The impact of the planned merger of CSD extension services with those of
MOFA needs to be carefully monitored.
50.    The M&E system now in place is considered adequate for the purposes of the project but would benefit
from a closer interaction between the M&E unit at PPMRD and the smaller but technically more specific units in
PBC and CSD. Within the framework of GOG's Economic Recovery Programn and the Medium-Term
Agricultural Development Strategy, the project was only one of many, and its impact cannot be measured in
isolation. A possible OED evaluation would therefore have to be broad-based and could possibly take place in
about five years, i.e., when most of the other IDA credits extended in support of agricultural and private sector
development will have closed.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
51.    Project Objectives. For the multiplicity of policy and institutional changes envisaged, the project had
insufficient leverage and support at the political and executive levels. For an agency with an annual turnover on
the order of US$300-400 million, efficient and speedy implementation of a project which was viewed by many of
the agency's staff as threatening their jobs and which entailed a comparatively small amount of financial
assistance was not high on the list of priorities. It was only with the advent of AgSAC, which had the required
support at highest level within Government, that the situation started to improve -- four years after project
effectiveness. At appraisal and during negotiation more emphasis should have been given to participation and
consensus building - key to local commitment and project ownership.
52.    The substantial devaluation of the Cedi during the project period, the gradual recovery of cocoa prices on
the world market and the increase in the farmers' share of the fob price triggered a significant production response
in the last two years of the project. This demonstrates that extraneous factors can be crucial for the success or
failure of a project. In this particular case, it also highlights the need for greater care in the use and interpretation
of commodity price projections (see para. 4).
53.    Project Financing. The lack of clear financing arrangements at the time the credit became effective
seriously affected project start-up (see para. 29). Especially for projects which involve a multiplicity of donors,
the financing plan has to be firmed up prior to effectiveness and a mechanism put in place to coordinate the
activities of the various donors.
54.    Project Management. The absence of clear lines of authority and responsibility and of an effective
mechanism to coordinate project activities was a major hindrance to timely and adequate project implementation,
and particularly to efficient procurement of goods and services. From the begiming, firm organizational
arrangements have to be in place. In this case, the situation called for a Project Coordinator with adequate
authority and a Project Coordinating Committee comprising the Chief Executive of COCOBOD and the heads of
13



the various Divisions/Departments and subsidiaries responsible for the respective project components, their
financing as well as procurement. While successive supervision missions may have recognized and identified this
lacuna as a major obstacle to effective implementation, corrective action was not taken.
55.    Supervision.  Complex multi-component projects cannot be effectively supervised by a lone staff
member at the Resident Mission, but require periodic multi-disciplinary supervision missions. And supervision of
operations supported by multiple cofinanciers would be more effective if carned out jointly by teams from the
cofinancing agencies.
14



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(E9))(                                 (6 I
Macro policies                      f IiC?                                   L/
Sector policies                     El          ED            FZ            El
Financial objectives                FI]          [i7          LI]           [I]
Institutional development           L]           F-]          F-            FI]
Physical objectives                 El            --         E             El
Poverty reduction                   El           [I]          F'            E]
Gender issues                       EJ           [] O         O             El
Other social objectives             E-           EI]            I ]         El
Environmental objectives            En           E-o           oF] E-
Public sector management            LI]          E1           E]            E
Private sector development          |l           E           El            E
Other (specify)                     El           E]            El           LEI
B. Project sustainability           Likely      Unlikelv    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance              satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                    F]
Preparation assistance               l         EE 
Appraisal                         F            E l
Supervision                       El           II]          El
15



BiglvIy
D. Borrower Derformance          satisfactorv   Satisfactorv  Deficient
Preparation
Implementation
- Borrower
- Implemeting Agencies           L            .         "R
Covenant compliance             EI                      liEC
Operation (if applicable)       E]          E]          Em
Highl                                     i
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactov   Satisfactor    Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactorv
N.B.       Project implementation suffered from numerous deficiencies and some key physical objectives were
only partially achieved. Hence, the overall outcome is considered unsatisfactory. However, as indicated in the text,
the macro-economic and sectoral policy framework has, during the project period, substantially improved. In
particular, supporting institutional and policy measures taken in the context of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (Cr. 2345-GH) have considerably strengthened the incentive framework for cocoa producers and the
instituional arrangements in the cocoa sub-sector, strongly underpinned the program objectives of the CRP. It is
therefore, almost impossible to assess the outcome of the project, if production growth is taken as the overall
objective, in isolation.
16



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose                 Year of approval     Status
Preceding operations
1. 1777-GH           Structural Adjustment 1              1987              Completed
2. 1801-GH            Agriculturl Services Rehabilitation  1987             Completed
3. 1976-GH           Forest Resource Management           1989              Ongoing
4. 1996-GH            Private SME Development             1989               Completed
5. 2005-GH            Structural Adjustment II            1989              Completed
6. 2040-GH            Rural Finance                       1989               Completed
7. 2180-GH            Agricultural Diversification        1991               Ongoing
8. 2236-GH           Private Investment Promotion         1991              Completed
9. 2247-GH           National Agricultural Research       1991              Ongoing
10. 2319-GH          National Feeder Roads                1991              Ongoing
Following operations
1. 2345-GH           Agricultural Sector Adjustment       1992              Completed
2. 2346-GH           National Agricultural Extension      1992              Ongoing
3. 2426-GH           Environmental Resource Management    1993              Ongoing
4. 2441-GH            National Livestock Services         1993              Ongoing
5. 2502-GH           Enterprise Development               1993              Ongoing
6. 2555-GH            Agricultural Sector Investment      1994              Ongoing
7. 2665-GH           Private Sector Development           1995              Ongoing
8. 2713-GH           Fisheries Subsector Capacity Building  1995            Ongoing
9. 2718-GH           Private Sector Adjustment            1995              Ongoing
17



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                             December 1985
Preparation                                                            May 1986
Appraisal                                                              AprillMay 1987
Negotiations                                     October 1987          October 1987
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                               November 1987         December 1, 1987
Signing                                          December 1987         February 18, 1988
Effectiveness                                    March 1988            November 15, 1988
Midterm review (if applicable)                   November 1990         March 1992
Project completion                               June 30, 1993         June 30, 1996
Loan closing                                     June 30, 1994         June 30, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95'  FY96  FY972
Appraisal estimate           9.9   15.0   21.9   29.8   37.1   40.0   40.0    40.0   44.9
Actual                       0.7    2.7    3.1    5.0    6.5   16.1   21.7    24.7   25.8
Actual as % estimate         7      18     14      17      18     40      54      62      57
Date of final disbursement                          September 25, 1996
I The credit closing date was extended twice by one year from June 30, 1994, to June 30, 1996.
2' For reasons of comparison the US$ equivalent of the Credit were kept constant throughout the implementation period. At
Credit closing, however, the actual US$ equivalent for the originally allocated SDR 31.3 million was used to match the
indicated undisbursed balance. The change in value is due to the depreciation of the US$ against the SDR.
18



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR/President's Report    Estimated       Actual
I. Physical
1. Target cocoa production                       300,000 t/year        403,850 t/yearl
2. Cutting out (CSSVDC)                            17,930 ha            13,050 ha
3. Replanting (CSSVDC)                             17,300 ha             3,810 ha
4. Planting                                        40,000 ha            35,059 ha
5. Road Program                                     3,000 km               780 km
a) Spot Improvement                               750 km               450 km
b) Routine maintenance up to PY 5 (peak)         2,100 km                ? 2/
c) New Roads                                       60 km
d) New Tracks                                      80 km
e) Bridges                                          2 units               3 units
5. Renovation of Bunso Cocoa College                   1 unit                1 unit
6. Renovation of FTCs                                 17 units               6 units
7. Staff housing                                     150 units
8. Seed garden expansion                              80 ha                 24 ha
9. Pilot irrigated seed garden                         1 unit
II. Organizational
1. Reduce CSD district offices from 191 units to      39                    39
2. Reorganize CSD extension services                   -        1,465 extension units established
3. Reduce PBC buying stations from 3218 to          1,730                1,730
4. Establish M&E units in PPMRD, CSD and PBC           3 units               3 units
In 1995/96.
2' Cannot be singled out from overall national program.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
19



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined      Status          Impact of study
1. Cocoa Survey       To update information on tree  Ongoing
stock
2. Socio-economic     To ascertaip farm level dynamics  Ongoing
aspects of cocoa farming  and assess response to support
measures
3. Streamlining of    To define appropriate         Completed    Internal reorganizations and
COCOBOD               organizational structure,                  reduction of staff
management system manpower
requirements and office facilities
4. Cocoa pricing      To develop incentive oriented  Completed    Development of new pricing
producer pricing system                    methodology and upward
adjustment of producer's
share in f.o.b. price
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)1'   Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign     Total       Local    Foreign   Total'
Item                          costs      costs                  costs     costs
1. Research                     2.0      4.5         6.5                            6.7
2. Extension & Training         5.2       5.7       10.9                           13.4
3. Seed Production              0.9       0.4        1.3                            0.3
4. Input Supply                 3.4      21.6       25.0                           15.2
5. Internal Marketing           7.6      13.1       20.7                           12.2
6. CSSVD Control               10.6       0.6       11.2                            4.3
7. Head Office & Management     2.5       2.0        4.5                            0.1
8. Road Program                19.0      28.9       47.9                           34.9
TOTAL                         51.2      76.8      128.0                           87.1
Data provided tby the Borrower were insufficiently detailed to allow a breakdown into local and foreign cost.
20



Table 8B: Project Financing
I________________        Appraisal estimate (US $M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source                 Local      Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign      Total1
costs      costs                   costs        costs
IDA                      14.2       25.8        40.0                                 25.8
ADB/ADF                   -         33.0        33.0                                 28.4
ODA                                 12.9        12.9                                 11.9
BADEA                                 5.1        5.1                                  4.1
EU                        -           -          -                                     2.12
Government               16.1                   16.1                                 14.93
COCOBOD                  20.9         -         20.9
TOTAL                    51.2       76.8       128.0
Data provided by the Borrower were insufficiently detailed to allow a breakdown into local and foreign cost.
2 At appraisal no participation by the EU was foreseen. The figure reflects only the first tranche on an EU
contribution of ECU 1.7 mnillion towards the control of the CSSVD. The second tranche of ECU 1.7 million
which has already been approved but was not released during the project period.
3 No separate accounts were kept for GOG and COCOBOD cofinancing, and it is not entirely clear whether all
taxes and duties have been accounted for.
21



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
_~-    i~                                                          -   ;   -|                          ri- ,_ 
1988W9119S9/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93  1993/94  1199495  1995/96  1996197   PY10    pY15   ___
Proects         ml f       2,5191   5,921   6,4391  26591   1977   32,67    15,347   12,3391   6,7001   6,70            6,700
otalarca        ha     1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000
undercocoa
Areaundertad.   ha      1,091,739 1,072,408 1,056,109 1,042,251 1,026,387 1,013,319  912,882  811,137  809,137  207,137  797,137  777,137
nment___ _
Ara rebabilitated, ha          - 10,000   20,000   30,000   40,000   50,000  150,000  250,000  250,000  250,000  250,000  250,000
cumulative                I_I_I
Area replanted,   ha       8,261    9,331    6,299    3,258    6,464    3,068        437    1,745    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
annmual                         I                                                                          I
Area replanted,    ha      8,261   17,592   23,891   27,149   33,613   36,681   37,118   38,863   40,863   42,863   52,863   72,863
cumulative
Incremental Cost  mill. 4            4,022    7,921   11,732   11,547   11,400   23,963   30,418   30,343   30,268   29,893   29,143
Traditional MgmL                 _I                                           I          _                           __
incremental Costs Imiln. 4           3,439    6,878   10,317   13,756   17,195   51,585   85,975   85,975   85,975   85,975   85,975
Rebabilitation    _                 _                                                  .1
IncrementalCosts Imill. c    12,247   15,567   13,031    9,950   16,548   14,340   12,158   14,844   16,526   17,504   20,997   28,485
ReplarAing                                                                              I        {        {         |       1
Total Cos       mill. 4    14,765   28,919   34,268   58,597   61,638   75,802  103,0541 143,576, 139,5441 140,4471 143,564, 150,303
Average Yied    kglha        250      255      260       265      265      265       285      300      300       300      300      300
tionaltrea   I          __                                   _                 __
verage Yield,    kgha          -      450       450      450      450      450       450      450      450       450      450      450
rebabiitat  area  |    |       |                              _        _        _               I         I
IncementalYield, kgha                    -        -        -      150      220       312      402      435       495      598      608
Ielanted area  I                I             IIII
Incremenal output looot        -       5.4     10.6     15.6      15.41    15.2     32.01    40.6      40.5     40.4     39.9      38.9
Tradin                     _                          _
Incremental OutputilOOOt       -       2.0      4.0      6.0      8.0      10.0     30.0     50.0      50.0     50.0     50.0    50.0
Rehabilitation                                      _        _         ______
Incremental Outputr  OOt                          -        -       1.2      3.9      7.5     10.9      14.6     18.1     26.8     39.4
Reptantig                                                              
Total ncremetal  lOOOt         -      7.41    14.61    21.6      24.6      29.1     69.4    101.5    105.11   108.51   116.7    128.3
Oulp                                                                                             I      
bn"metal        miu.l               9,384   18,482   27,375   26,943   26,600   55,914   70,974   70,799   70,624   69,749   67,999
Benefits - Trad    |   |        |
Inremental      mill.          -    3,500    7,000   10,500   14,000   17,500   52,500   87,500   87,500   87,500   87,500   87,500
Benefits - Rehab. |              _                                   I                                                       I
hIremental      mill           -         -        -        -    2,169    6,786   13,058   19,100   25,615   31,746   46,937   69,494
Benefits - Replant .  |___|
Total Benefits   |mitL  |      -   12,8841  25,4821  37,S751  43,111|  50,8861  121,472| 177,575  183,914| 189,871| 204,1861 224,994
Net Stream      -M. 0 |(14,765)1 (16,036)1 (8,786)1 (20,723)1 (18,526)| (24,916)1  18,4181  33,9991  44,370|  49,4241  60,622|  74,691
Economic Rate of Retum (ERR)      24.3%
Underlying assumptions for ERR calculation:
*   Project life 25 years.
*   All costs and benefits are in constant end-1996 prices.
*   Project cost were adjusted to 1996 constant prices by using the GDP deflator.
* A fanngate export parity price for cocoa of 4 1,750/kg (US$1,096.5/ton equivalent in actual end-1996 Cedis) was used.
*   A SCF of 0.8 was used, duties wern neted out
* Intihe absence ofan opational plan, 5% oftotal projectocsts are used as basis forprojed operating costs aftertbe compldion ofthe investment phase
*   Thetotal area tnier cocoa is amimed to have renained unlanged at 1.1 million ha t boajgot
*   lis stinatd1hatby 1996 about 250,000 hahad been putd er improved fann mangnent (rehabiliaton). This aage is am d to have ineased gmalWlydeiing
the iniil project yeas but veryrapidl;y in 1994/95 and 1995/96 in re eto sultaially inproved producer prioes and availability offann iqumt
*   Nodailed anailonproductesponesis available. Forpthe pupseoft1he economic analysis, avaage yidds on rehabdates aare esimated at 450 kha, y4ekk
onreplitedareas are eslimatedtorisefiom 150 kg/hainyear 5 aferplatingto 300 kgha inyear 6,450 kg/ha in yea 7,525 kgha in yearyS, 600 kgha inyear9, and
650 kghainyear 10 andtberafe. Theavmgeyiddontsadimonallymanaged areas is esimnatedat250 kghainyear 1 ofheprjed andtomreagrdualy, as shomn
hb due to nrovingpiceinaiisveaand ftmmnanagan.i,to300 kghabeinyr 8 andihereafler.
*   Replatingisestimnaledlootinueat arate of 2,000 haper year, as oldtrees are beingreplaced.
*   Based on thes asumptions, the ERR (inchudinga project costs) has been retmd at 24.3"/% aganst an appisal esdmate of 23Y/. As dicated in the te, it s not
posibletonrtoutthe inact ofthe projectfrom al othernwasuresAii have createdanmorefavourable ince ivefmwokforcocoaprodutionintbepastfewyeas
22



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Agree-             Covenant  Present  fulfillment fulfillment            Description of
ment     Section    type     status     date       date                   covenant                       Comments
CA        2.02 (b)   1        c                               Borrowerto open special account A(for
parts A-J of project)
CA        2.02 (b)   1        c                               Borrower to open special account B (for part
K-roads of the project)                                        l
CA        3.02 (a)   1        C                               Borrower to open a conunercial bank
account in the name of DFR Cocoa account
for part K ofthe project
CA        3.07       5        CP        12/89                 Borrower to cause Cocobod to eliminate  Subsidy eliminated in June
farm input subsidy                     1990. However, indirect
subsidies continue
CA        3.07       5        C                               Cocobod to:                            Private retailing covering
11.15.89             a) introduce private retailing of inputs in    the entire country
Eastern Region                         introduced in August
11.15.90             b) introduce private retailing of inputs in  1990, but mostly carried
Central and volta Regions              out by CCSFA.
5.31.90             c) announce permissionto private sectorto
engage in input retailing,
11.15.91             d) introduce private retailing in Ashanti and
Brong Ahafo Regions
11.15.92             e) introduce privatize bulk delivery and
retailing in Western Region
CA        3.08 (i)   5        NC                              Borrower not to change Chief Executive and  Changes took place
Deputy Chief Executive without prior   without prior approval
I approval of IDA
CA        3.08 (ii)   5       NC                              Borrower not to change Director General of  Was changed without prior
DFR without prior approval of IDA      approval
CA        4.01 (b)   1                  June 30               Borrowerto submnit audit reports, including
(iii)                        anmually              audits of statements of expenditures, by June
30 following end of previous fiscal year
CA        7.01 (a)   3        c                               Signing of Subsidiary Loan agreement
between borrower and Cocobod, as
coditions of effectiveness
CA        7.01 (b)   3        C                               Fulfillment of conditions of ADF loan
agreement, BADEA loan agreement, and UK
grant agreement, as conditions of
effectiveness
CA        7.01 (c)   4        C                               Deposit by the borrower of DFR Cocoa
account in an initial amount of US$ 1 million
in cedis equivalent, as conditions of
effectiveness
CA        7.01 (d)   S        C                               Subnmission by borrower to IDA of Cocoa
producer price arrangements satisfactory to
IDA, as conditions of effectiveness
CA        7.01 (e)   1        C                               Submission by borrower to IDA of its audit
report for 1985 and 1986, as conditions of
effectiveness
CA        7.01 (f)   5        C                               Appointment by Cocobod of personnel for
following positions, as condition of
effectiveness
a) Executive director of CRIG
b) Deputy chief executive for Finance and
Administration
c) Deputy executive director (operations) of
CSD
d) Technical manager for extension
e) Haulage manager of PBC
f) Head of M&E unit at headquarters
23



- - - - - -
Original   Revised
Agr-               Covenant  Prent  fulfillment filfillment              Description of
ment     Secion    type       status    date       date                    covenant                       Comments
Sch 2, PA  I         5        C         July L,               Cocobod to submit to IDA by July I of each
annually             year its budget and annual work program
Sch 2, PA  2         9        C         August 9,             Cocobod and IDA to exchange views on (a)
annually             Cocobod's corporate plan; (b) farn input
privatization program; (c) Cocobod's intemal
marketing policy and strategy, and (d)
progran of CSSVD control
Sch 2, PA  3         9        CD        November              Cocobod and IDA to conduct mid-tenn    Delayed due to delay in
1, 1990              review of projed implementation,        overall projecL Completed
in March 1991
Sch 2, PA  5         5        C         January 1             CSD to reduce to hirty-nine the numnber of
1990                 districts which it operates
Sch 2, PA  6 (a)     5        CD        June 30,              CSD to discontinue its involvement in sale   August 1990
19S8                 and distribution of farm inputs
Sch 2, PA  6 (b)     5        NC        January 1,            CSD to undertake pilot extension programs.  Unification of extension
1989                                                         planned for 1997
Sch 2, PA  7 (a)     5        C                               CSD to make hybrid seed available only to
farmers who agree to apply improved
agroeconomnist practices and to prepare
seedling in polybags
Sch 2, PA  7 (b)    2         NC                              CSD to sell seeds and seedlings at prices not  Piice still highly
less than the prevailing market prices for  subsidezed
equivalent dry weight of beans
Sch 2, PA  9         5        C         April 1,              CRIG to establish Managetnent Conmmittee
1988
Sch 2, PA  10        5        C         June 30,              CRIG to establish a research policy
1988                 subcommittee ofthe management committee
Sch 2, PA  11        5        CD        March 31,             CRIG to undertake periodic external    Second assesment only in
1988; June           assesstnents of its research progran, and  July 1992
30,1991;             provide such information to Cocobod.
thereafter
every 5
years
Sch 2, PA  12       9         C                               M&E unit to be established in the PPMRD
Sch 2, PA  17       5         C         January 1,            PBC to:
1990                 a) review role and function of its buying
centers;
b) close down all buying centers with annual
purchases of less than 25 tons (656);
c) convert all buying centers with annual
purchases of 25-50 tons into sub-societies
(830)                                  _
Covenant Class                                                     Status
1 - Accounts/audit                                                 C         - Complied with
2- Financial perfonnance/generate revenue from beneficiaries       CD        - Compliance after Delay
3 - Flow and utilization of Project funds                          NC        - Not Complied with
4 - Countepat fiding                                               SOON    - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
5 - Management aspects ofthe Project or of its executing agency    CP        - Complied with Partially
6 - Environmena covenants                                          NYD       - Not Yet Due
7  Invohmtuay reselement
8 - Indigenous people
9 - Monitring review and reporting
10 - Implementation
11 - Sectoral or croas-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 - Sectoral or coras-sectora regulatory/institutional action
13 - Other
24



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The most significant lack of compliance occurred in respect of adherence to procurement procedures.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                       Actual
Weeks            US$
Preparation to appraisal              202.7           213.6
Appraisal                             27.5             67.7
Negotiations through Board approval    2.9             7.3
Supervision                           154.0           419.7
Completion                            13.5             45.0
TOTAL                                400.6           753.3
25



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stoe of                    Number                     Specialized     InmIemen-       Develop-
proje cycl Mof        Days in        staff skills     tation          ment         Types of
Yeaw      peo           fiel        represeed          status       objectives     problems
Through appraisal
1. Pre-preparion      5186           6           21        A, PA, ISS,
(FAO)                                                      RS', T
2. Prparation (FAO)    /86           3            19       A, FA, ISS
3. Pre-appraisal      2187           7           20        A, E, ExS, FA,
RE, TE
4. Appaisl            5/87           4           21        E, FA, RE, TE
Appraisalthrough      8/87           1           22        E
Board approval       .
Board approval
through effectiveness                                                      _
Supervision                                                              _                                             I
1.                    3/89           3            3        AgE, E, RS1            -              --
2.                    8/89           4           13        A, AgE, E, TE          3             3           Training
Studies
3.                    4/90           4           15        AgE, E, HE, TB        2              2         Management
4. PS-R2'             11/90          3           17        A, HE, TE              2             2         Management
5. PS-R2v             2/91           3           18        AgE,HE,TE             2              2
6. Mid-term review    3/92           4           25        A, AgE, E, T          3              3         Procurecmet,
7. PS.-e              6/93           1            19       TE                     -              -        Procurement
8. PS - R2            3/94           1           20        TE                                             Procurement
9. PS - CSSVD3'       9/94           1           10        T                                              Procurement
10.                   3/95           3            8        A, AgE,T              S              S         Management
& Covenant
Compliance
11.                   3/96           2            9        A, T                  S              S         Procurement
& Covenance
Compleiion            2/97           3           15        AgE, RE, T             .              .
A = Agronomist/Agriculturalist; AgE = Agriculural Economist; E = Economist; ExS = Extension Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst;
HE  Highway Engineer, ISS = Input Supply Specialist; PO = Project Oflicer, RE = Rural Engineer, RS = Research Specialist;
T = Tree Crops Specialist; TE = Transport Engineer.
'Research Specialist ODA
' Supervision of roads component in conjunction with supervision of National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Projet (Cr. 2319 GH).
"Supenision of CSSVD control program.
26



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COCOA REHABILITATION PROJECT (CRP)
(Cr - 1854 GH)
Project Implementation Completion (ICR) Mission
Aide - Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This is the aide-memoire of a joint FAO/CP, World Bank mission' which visited the country from
7 to 21 February 1997 to prepare the ICR for the above captioned project. The findings of the mission are
based on the review of documents available at the World Bank offices in Washington and Accra,
information provided by the Borrower, field visits and discussions with farmers and representatives of the
private sector.
B. THE PROJECT
Background
2.    The project was the third IDA-financed cocoa project in the country. Based on a cocoa sector
study carried out by the Bank in 1980 the project was first identified in 1981 and was followed by a
prefeasibility study in the same year. Further preparatory work was suspended due mainly to an
unfa-vorable economic environment and unresolved policy issues. The project was reidentified by the Bank
in 1985, prepared in 1986 and appraised in 1987.
3.    With the effectiveness on June 3, 1992, of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AgSAC) in
the amount of SDR 57 million (US$80 million equivalent at the time of appraisal) most of the institutional
and policy objectives of the CRP were underpinned or even superseded. All three tranches were released
and the credit was fully disbursed on January 23, 1996.
Project Objectives and Components
4.    The main objectives of the project were to: (a) support the policy reforms in the cocoa sector
agreed under the first Structural Adjustment Credit; and (b) increase cocoa production and yield to
stabilize output at an annual level of about 300,000 t mainly through the rehabilitation of 300,000 ha of
existing cocoa and the replanting of about 57,000 ha.
To translate these objectives into a program of concrete actions the project was to finance the
following nine main components:
(i)  Technical Services for Cocoa Production, (ii) Extension Services for Improved
Technology, (iii) Seed Production and Distribution, (iv) Cocoa Swollen Shoot Virus
lH. Trupke (Mission Leader - FAO/CP), C. Carlier (Tree Crop Specialist, WB Consultant) and L. Campbell (Bio-
Resources Engineer, WB Consultant).
1



Disease Control (CSSVDC), (v) Research, (vi) Farm Input Supply, (vii) Internal
Marketing, (viii) Monitoring and Evaluation, and (ix) Road Program.
5.    The project objectives were clear, realistic and most relevant to the country and the sector. The
project was rather demanding for the borrower as it attempted to tackle a wide range of institutional
reforms, and numerous of policy issues simultaneously together with the implementation of geographically
widely dispersed physical action programs.
6.    The five year project for which Credit 1854-GH in the amount of SDR 31.3 million (US$40.0
million equivalent at appraisal) was approved on 12/1/87 and made effective on 11/15/88. Total project
cost were estimated at US$128.0 million with co-financing provided by ADB/ADF (US$33.0 million),
other co-financiers (US$18 million) as well as counterpart contributions of US$16.1 million and US$20.9
million by GOG and COCOBOD respectively.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    The ultimate objective namely, to increase cocoa production and yield to stabilize output at an
annual level of about 300,000 tons was reached and exceeded already in 1992/3 with over 312,000 tons, at
a time when IDA disbursements amounted to less than 16% of the credit amount. This can partly be
attributed to the major publicity drive by COCOBOD rekindling farners' interest as well as enhanced
contacts of CSD and CRIG with farms. The major production thrust, however, can be attributed to the
inprovement of the macro-economic policy framework which resulted in substantial increases in farm gate
prices, due mainly to the devaluation of the Cedi. In addition, supported by AgSAC, the rationalization of
COCOBOD led to an increased farmers' share in the f.o.b price further improving the incentive framework
for cocoa production.
8.    It remains therefore not clear which proportion of the ever since increasing production (over
400,000 tons in 1995/96) can solely be attributed to the project. Nevertheless with renewed farmer
interest, about 330,000 ha were rehabilitated (SAR: 300,000 ha), and replanting (including 3,810 ha under
the CSSVDC program) has reached 38,867 ha against an appraisal estimate of 57,000 ha.
9.    In contrast the performance in implementing the various components has been mixed: The
components aiming at improving the technical services for cocoa production and enhancing the efficiency
and effectiveness of the cocoa extension services were implemented broadly following the SAR outline.
Only the pilot program for the unification of cocoa extension services with those of MOFA was not
attempted. Seed production and distribution was improved. Pod production was scaled down against
appraisal estimates to more realistic demand figures of about 2.2 to 2.5 million pods. The pilot irrigated
seed pod garden to determine the feasibility of increased pod production throughout the year was never
started because of disagreement with IDA on the justification of the proposed investment and the value of
the results. Seed pod distribution was substantially improved but pods are still sold at a highly subsidized
price.
10.   The CSSVD program covered an extremely important aspect of the industry. Under the
component a total of 17,930 ha of diseased cocoa trees were to be cut out and 17,330 ha be replanted.
Affected farmers were to receive a cutting out and replanting grant equivalent to 4 years loss of production
in three tranches. There was considerable confusion in the earlier years of the project over the financing of
that component. COCOBOD, however, maintained the program and has cut out about 5,000 ha during the
period 1988/89 to 1993/94.
2



11.   From July 1994 onwards a "Cordon Sanitaire" program, separating the areas of mass CSSVD
infection in the Eastern Region from the scattered outbreak areas, was initiated. Realizing the urgent need
to accelerate the CSSVDC program in this belt the European Union (E.U.) agreed to provide STABEX
fands (ECU 1.7 million) for incentive payments and IDA provided some vehicles and equipment. During
the remaining two years up to project closing another 8,056 ha were cut out, bringing the total to 13,050 ha
or about 73% ofthe SAR estimate. Atthe same time 3,810 ha have been replanted underthe program.
12.   The main thrust of the research component was to strengthen the capacity of CRIG to deliver the
necessary scientific and technical support to the cocoa industry. Whereas training, technical assistance,
consultancies, vehicles and equipment were mostly ODA financed, some infrastructure rehabilitation was
provided by IDA and the rest directly financed by COCOBOD. The quality of research has considerably
improved, it is now demand driven, problem oriented and multidisciplinary. As planned, a farming systems
unit was established which added the required farming systems perspective including economic issues to the
research program. Most of the physical works have been successfully completed.
13.   The technical assistance program was particularly successful and CRIG now has a well trained (in-
house and overseas) and highly motivated complement of senior professional and technical and
administrative staff. Research/extension linkages have been strongly established and are mainly operating
through the Cocoa Research and Extension Technical Committee as well as joint CRIG/CSD field
programs.
14.   Under the farm input supply component COCOBOD has, as planned, initiated the subsidy removal
process in 1988/89, but no action was taken to privatize the marketing channel. Under the pressing
demand of AgSAC, however, COCOBOD rather abruptly sold in July 1990 all its input stocks to the
Coffee, Cocoa and Sheanut Farmers Association (CCSFA) and made them effectively the sole distributor
for cocoa inputs. CSD continued to import and distribute inputs on behalf of the CCSFA until June 1995.
From July 1995 onwards CCSFA became solely responsible for the entire procurement and distribution
process and CSD now only assists with requirement forecasting and the leasing of some stores. CCSFA
continues to subsidize inputs at levels estimated to range between 40 and 85%, thus not only depleting the
compensation funds, which was originally designed for price stabilization, but also preventing the
emergence of a competitive private input marketing system.
15.   In order to enhance the efficiency of internal cocoa marketing, and following the appraisal
recommendation, 656 buying centers (societies) were closed, and 830 converted into sub-societies. An
M&E Unit was established in the PBC. Under the IDA Credit 40 tractors for produce haulage were bought
as well as tarpaulins. The procurement ofjute sacks for an estimated US$4.7 million did not materialize
due to protracted procurement difficulties.
16.   In March 1992, COCOBOD was required under AgSAC to introduce competition into the internal
marketing. By credit closing a total of 11 Licensed Buying Companies (LBC's) were operating, procuring
about 101,000 tons equivalent to about 25% of total deliveries. Enhanced private competition to PBC is
constrained by difficulties in accessing working capital, lack of vehicles, equipment, tarpaulins, bags,
scales and storage facilities.
17.   To strengthen COCOBOD's overall policy analysis capacity, its Policy Planning, Monitoring and
Research Department (PPMRD) had been reorganized as planned and within it a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit established and a Management Information Service and Data Bank set up. The training
program was partially executed and about 50% of the study program completed. The PPMRD and its
M&E Unit are considered by COCOBOD management to perform satisfactory but are still suffering from
3



equpment and mobility constraints. The post of manager of the M&E Unit is presently vacant and a new
incumbent would require training.
18.   The implementation of the roads program was assigned to the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR)
of the Ministry of Roads and Highways using contractors under LCB/ICB procedures. This component
was not carried out as planned. The DFR was not involved in the design of the project and subsequently
raised objections to the concept of carrying out only spot improvement on the selected roads which were
found to be in a very poor state. The DFR claimed that the design were not suitable for the existing
condition of the roads and the climatic condition of the project areas. In addition to the objections raised on
the technical proposals, the DFR did not agree with the Bank and COCOBOD on the operational proposals
including technical assistance. By the time the contentious issues were finally resolved after about three
years the target roads for spot improvement and for maintenance had so deteriorated that most required
complete rehabilitation at substantially higher cost than appraised. To worsen the situation, the original
amount allocated to the road component was reduced from US$41.6 million to US$35.61 million at the
project implementation stage. At credit closing, 275 km of roads and 3 bridges instead of the two bridges
originally planned were completed under the IDA credit at a cost of US$13.5 million. At the same time, the
ADF financed the rehabilitation of 404 km of roads at a cost of US$12.5 million. All the contracts were
awarded through, ICB, to which COCOBOD contributed the equivalent of US$3.55 million as counterpart
funds. In addition, COCOBOD financed the rehabilitation of 450 km out of 750 km of roads targeted
using labor-based contractors at US$6.0 million. Budgetary constraints prevented work on the remaining
300 km. The contracts for the labor based contractors were let through reserved procurement procedures
which IDA did not support. This was however, necessary to sustain the new technology. The total
rehabilitation program funded by both IDA and ADF thus achieved only 679 km and 3 bridges. The road
component completed which adds up to 1,129 km represents only 38% of 3,000 km originally planned.
19.   None of the expected 60 km of new feeder roads and 80 km of new tracks had been constructed by
the DFRI Even though bids were received for contracts covering this sub-component, they were aborted on
the advice of the bank due to (a) lack of funds and (b) the banks requirement for environmental impact
assessment which was not possible at the time. However, the number of bridges on major rivers was
revised from 2 to 3 and they were satisfactorily completed. The cost of the 3 bridges constitutes 54% of
the cost of the civil works funded by IDA. Under the same program, 22 steel bridges supplied by ODA
were installed.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
20.   Although the project had been made effective in November 1988 co-financing arrangements were
only finalized in October 1989, resulting in a start-up delay of most components. The project suffered
implementation difficulties from the start. Among the problems were frequent changes in the senior staff of
COCOBOD and a generally low staff moral throughout the organization, because of the ongoing
restructuring and retrenchment program involving privatization of many of COCOBOD's traditional
activities.
21.   Furthermore in the absence of clearly defined project management, coordination and execution
responsibilities, the decision making process leading to implementation was extremely cumbersome. This
affected in particular the procuremnent of goods and services as roles and responsibilities for procurement
were not properly delineated, which together with frequent non-adherence to Bank procurement guidelines
slowed down the implementation process to a virtual stand still. Performance only improved starting in
early 1994 with the coming in of new management, leading the Bank to agree to two successive extensions
4



of the Loan closing date. In spite of these two extensions a balance of US$19.7 million (SDR 13.7 million
equivalent) remained undisbursed at loan closing on June 30, 1996.
22.   The performance of both, the Bank and the Borrower was weak throughout much of the project
cycle. Through to appraisal the Bank failed to ensure political backing and project ownership of the
implementing agencies. Project management and implementation arrangements were not sufficiently well
defined and the technical specification for the roads component were established, disregarding the
Borrower's indicated requirements. Project supervision was erratic and mostly only partial and earlier
Bank missions failed to spot and rectify the serious project management deficiencies. The Bank, however,
responded well to the Borrower's financial needs by extending the loan closing date twice by one year.
23.   The main weakness of the Borrower was its failure to establish a workable system for the
procurement of goods and services. On the other hand the Borrower did well in implementing the numerous
conditionalities regarding COCOBOD's restructuring and the opening up of input supply and internal
cocoa marketing to the private sector.
Assessment of Outcome
24.   The outcomes of the various project components were mixed. Only about 38% of the roads
component, which in financial terms represented the main thrust of the project, were completed and the
program suffered from very substantial cost overruns. Procurement for goods and services was protracted
resulting in a considerable implementation delay and a final disbursement shortfall of 42% in SDR terms
reflecting mainly the lower that anticipated provision of equipment and materials to CSD and PBC as well
as an under-performance in COCOBOD's civil works program.
25.   The main achievements, which can be directly attributed to the project are the enhancing of CRIG's
research capacity and capability and the CSSVD control program. The institutional and policy reform
process, which was initiated by GOG and underpinned with donor support, was continued under the project
but the major thrust for a further advancement can mostly be attributed to AgSAC.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
26.   The most important findings are that: (a) for projects which envisage a multiplicity of policy and
institutional changes, from the beginning local commitment and project ownership has to be ensured from
both, policy makers and implementing agencies, (b) programs which promote divestiture and liberalization
would need to be accompanied by measures in support of private sector entry, (c) extraneous factors, such
as changes in world market commodity prices, exchange rates, climatic conditions etc. can have paramount
effects and supersede the impact of the project per se.
27.   Overall the project appears sustainable. The government remains strongly committed to enhance
the incentive framework for cocoa production. It is essential that the momentum gained under the various
support programs is maintained in the future including the promotion of further divestiture and
liberalization of internal cocoa marketing and input supply.
28.   The key lessons to be drawn from project implementation experience are that (a) inadequate project
management, coordination and implementation - including procurement - arrangements can seriously affect
project outcome and should be clearly defined at appraisal, (b) especially for projects which involve a
multiplicity of donors the financing plan has to be firmed-up prior to effectiveness, (c) attempting to
instigate a major institutional change such as the unification of CSD with MOFA extension services, within
5



the framework of a minor project component is unrealistic, (d) lack of consensus between the Bank and the
Borrower on key technical parameters such as road construction and improvement specifications and TA
requirements can be detrimental to implementation, and (e) Bank supervision should be more problem-
solving oriented, and regular multi-disciplinary supervision is required for complex projects.
C. FOLLOW UP
29.   Upon return to Rome, the mission will prepare the ICR including the required statistical tables for
submission to the Bank and the Borrowers by early April. The Borrower has been advised by the mission
on the need to prepare its own assessment to form an integral part of the final report.
6



IBRD 20147
30                          20                           1                            50                           1                              20
B U RK INA  FASO                                                   zxgg_
110                                                                  /Q'    '    PuIhmakom,                   GH  AN                         1
? ,NHaQ tle    z  G o= <      >         i /TRUNK  ROAD  NETWORK
4911                  z                       .\rhchlgw7LIN THE COCOA GROWING AREA
I))wr     k     _r                         /              t              
100
100   ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ~       ~      y~~~~9595 Gush~~~~~~~~~~iego
O i    -    ehsio    \\              - /    >Sbobo
T() < 2h             e          rche <  %Chombu <lg Spuie
_9.          &_     _ , '          Oooongo   /       inrupe                                                                                                90
,\< ,  \Pusuga                     7, mX,@ Cocoa Growtng Area
>  >   (:Bu,pe/;   '                       B-1b b_                                 Primary Roads
Major Secondary Roads
C T   \7 -\Other Secondary Roads
COTE  \cago -                                   -     C                                           -i----r--  Railroads
D'IVOIRE    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~)                            j1e               Region Headquarters
D\jo                Chied,r ei)                      *     National Capital
Region Boundaries
International Boundaries
Ports
WESTE   N,                                           I                                                        Oobs~s                                 60 g  <A a              
-6                    7EIN *Tsr_w\a
6-        WE6 20   4    6    8   KOETRST
Che readers and 15 essb,os'nf for hhe siters use of The Wcrld BRask and the htte,satioaie
10                 0                             t~~~~~~~~~01     0    04p1     ILS5
0   20    40   60    80  KILOMAPRILT198
Fm-nc Crzpo,.1ro The denorabmn usd snd V.e b-ds shown on It. maD d. not
y I" -th of a rho UA711d Bank snd the khtanh.rW Fncs CaroMr85n. ")-cfment
anth legal ststus of snv ertwory or snV endonlet ar -cowf-.nC atfsuh bov6d
3^'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 19171 



r






IMAGING
Report No.:        16818
Type:     ICR



