Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1854 GH
                  (Cocoa Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                         GHANA COCOA BOARD
                      Dated February 18, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  February  18,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association)  and  GHANA COCOA BOARD
(COCOBOD).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Ghana  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to thirty-
one  million  three   hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 31,300,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but  only  on condition that COCOBOD
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower  and  COCOBOD,  part  of  the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to COCOBOD on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS  COCOBOD,  in   consideration  of  the  Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used  in  this  Agreement,  the   several  terms  defined  in  the
Development Credit Agreement, the  Preamble  to this Agreement and
in the General  Conditions  (as  so  defined)  have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01.  (a)  COCOBOD  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth in Schedule 2 to the Deve-
lopment Credit  Agreement  and,  to  this  end,  shall  carry out
Parts A through J of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative, financial,
engineering and  agricultural  practices,  and  shall  provide, or
cause to be provided,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Parts A through J of the
Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under this  Agreement,  COCOBOD shall include in
its annual recurrent and capital  budget adequate funds to finance
its estimated share of expenditures under Parts A through J of the
Project.
     (c)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of this Section and, except as the Associa-
tion and COCOBOD shall  otherwise  agree,  COCOBOD shall carry out
Parts A through J  of  the  Project  in accordance with the Imple-
mentation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Parts A through J  of  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. COCOBOD  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Parts A through J of the Project.
     Section 2.04. COCOBOD shall  duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, COCOBOD  shall  not  take  or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) COCOBOD shall,  at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with  the  Association  with regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  COCOBOD shall  promptly  inform  the  Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Parts A through  J  of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the  Credit,  or  the performance by COCOBOD of
Page  3
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of COCOBOD
     Section 3.01. (a) COCOBOD  shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial,  economical,  agricultural  and  engineering  practices
under the  supervision  of  qualified  and  experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     (b)  COCOBOD shall appoint  suitable  persons with experience
and qualifications acceptable to the Association for the following
positions: (i) Executive Directors of  CSD and CRIG; (ii) Managing
Director of PBC;  and  (iii)  the  Directors  of  Audits, PPMR and
Finance and Budget.
     Section 3.02. COCOBOD shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property and, from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
     Section 3.03. COCOBOD shall  ensure  that pesticides are used
in accordance with  appropriate  environmental  standards; to that
end, COCOBOD shall  make  arrangements  satisfactory  to the Asso-
ciation for the monitoring of the  use of pesticides and status of
residues in beans, soils and  water  supplies in treated areas, as
well as the effect on workers and farmers involved in the applica-
tion of pesticides.
     Section  3.04.  COCOBOD  shall  take  out  and  maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.05. COCOBOD shall  no  later  than August 31, 1988:
(i) formulate (on  the  basis  of  the  cocoa producer price study
commissioned by COCOBOD) a  cocoa producer pricing study satisfac-
tory to the Association; and  (ii) furnish to the Association full
details of the said policy.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) COCOBOD shall maintain records and accounts
(on a consolidated basis as well  as for its various divisions and
subsidiaries)  adequate  to  reflect   in  accordance  with  sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  COCOBOD shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such  year  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
Page  4
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and  of  COCOBOD  thereunder  shall  terminate  on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the  date  twenty  years  after  the  date  of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii)  of  this  Section,  the  Association  shall  promptly notify
COCOBOD of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For COCOBOD:
          Ghana Cocoa Board
          P.O. Box 933
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                COCOBOD                        2210 Leymot GH
                Accra
Page  5
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  COCOBOD  may  be  taken or executed by the
Chief Executive of  COCOBOD  or  such  other  person or persons as
COCOBOD shall designate in  writing,  and COCOBOD shall furnish to
the Association  sufficient  evidence  of  the  authority  and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    GHANA COCOA BOARD
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts  shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $100,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in  Part  A.1  hereof,  COCOBOD  may  grant  a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
Page  6
1.   Civil works and goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $100,000  but  more  than  the  equivalent  of $60,000 per
contract may be procured under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $60,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $5,000,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are  to  be made out of Special Account
A, such  procedures  shall  be  modified  to  ensure  that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
Special Account A in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are  to  be  made  out  of  Special  Account A, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist COCOBOD in  carrying out Parts A through J
of the Project, COCOBOD  shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination and Monitoring
1.   The overall responsibility for coordinating all Project acti-
vities under Parts A through J of the Project rests with the Chief
Executive  of  COCOBOD.  Within   this  framework,  the  different
Page  7
components shall be  implemented  by  the  various units or subsi-
diaries of COCOBOD as described below. COCOBOD shall submit to the
Association, not later than July 1 of each year, for its approval,
its proposed  annual  budget  and  annual  work  programs  for the
different components in such detail  and  format as agreed upon by
COCOBOD and the  Association  which  shall  include reports on the
progress achieved in the  carrying  out  of the Project during the
preceding year. Following  approval  of  the annual work programs,
COCOBOD shall ensure  that  all  Project  activities under Parts A
through J be carried  out  in  accordance with the approved annual
work programs.
2.   In addition to  these  reviews  of  the annual work programs,
COCOBOD  and  the  Association  shall  exchange,  not  later  than
August 1 of each  year,  views  on:  (a) COCOBOD's corporate plan;
(b) its farm input privatization  plan referred to in paragraph 15
below; (c) the internal marketing policy and strategy; and (d) the
program of CSSVD incentive payments to farmers.
3.   In order  to  assess  the  overall  progress  of  the Project
activities   and   to   ensure   the   necessary   adjustment   of
implementation procedures  to  prevailing  conditions  and policy,
COCOBOD and the Association  shall  conduct  a mid-term review not
later than November 1, 1990.
Parts A through E of the Project
4.   CSD shall be responsible  for  the  implementation of Parts A
through E of the Project.
5.   In order to enhance its  abilities  to handle its key respon-
sibilities in cocoa development, CSD shall implement a reorganiza-
tion plan designed to:  (a)  improve efficiency; (b) ensure effec-
tive supervision; (c) allow a  better use of limited staff skills,
(d) promote specialization; and (e)  reduce costs. As part of such
reorganization, CSD shall, not later  than January 1, 1990, reduce
the number of districts in which it operates to thirty nine.
6.   In order to further  streamline  and strengthen the extension
service provided to cocoa farmers, CSD shall:
     (a)  by June 30,  1988,  discontinue  its  involvement in the
sale and distribution of farm inputs; and
     (b)  starting, not later than  January 1, 1989, implement two
pilot operations under  which  field-level extension services will
be provided:
          (i)  to cocoa  farmers  (A)  in  one-half  of  the cocoa
               growing areas of the  Volta Region during the first
               year of the pilot  operations by extension staff of
               the Borrower's Ministry of  Agriculture, and (B) in
               all the cocoa growing areas  of the Volta Region by
               said extension staff as from the second year of the
               pilot  operations  if   effective  field  extension
               services have been  provided  by  such staff during
               the first year of the pilot operations; and
         (ii)  to farmers (A)  in  one-half  of  the cocoa growing
               areas of the  Brong  Ahafo  Region by CSD extension
               staff during the  first  year  of  the pilot opera-
               tions, and (B) in  all  cocoa  growing areas of the
               Brong Ahafo Region by  CSD  extension staff as from
               the second year of the pilot operations.
7.   Under Part D of the Project, CSD shall:
     (a)  make available hybrid seed only  to farmers who agree to
apply improved agroeconomic practices  and to prepare seedlings in
polybags; and
     (b)  sell seed or seedlings at  prices not less than the pre-
Page  8
vailing market prices for equivalent dry weight of beans.
Part F of the Project
8.   CRIG shall be responsible for the implementation of Part F of
the Project.
9.   In order to strengthen its  capacity to provide the necessary
scientific and technical support  to  the cocoa sector, CRIG shall
establish, not later than April 1, 1988, a CRIG Management Commit-
tee with terms of reference and membership acceptable to the Asso-
ciation. Said Committee shall,  in  particular: (a) take important
decisions or set guidelines  on  research policies and priorities;
(b) approve work  programs,  budgets,  funding, staff appointments
and terms of service;  and  (c)  ensure  proper liaison with other
institutions and farmer contacts.
10.  Under the  Management  Committee,  CRIG  shall establish, not
later than June 30, 1988, a Research Policy Sub-Committee designed
to  advise  the  Management  Committee  on  research  policies and
priorities in line with national  development goals, with terms of
reference and membership acceptable to the Association.
11.  CRIG shall  undertake  periodic  external  assessments of its
research program  and  provide  such  information  to COCOBOD. The
first assessment shall  be  undertaken  not  later  than March 31,
1988, the second not later  than  June 30, 1991, and thereafter at
least every five years.
Part G of the Project
12.  The  Policy,  Planning,  Monitoring  and  Research Department
shall be responsible for  the monitoring and evaluation activities
in COCOBOD. In  order  to  strengthen  the overall policy analysis
capacity of  COCOBOD,  monitoring  and  evaluation  units shall be
established  in  the  Policy,  Planning,  Monitoring  and Research
Department as well as in the Produce Buying Company, Ltd. and CSD.
Part H of the Project
13.  (a)  CSD shall  be  responsible  for  carrying  out the study
under Part H.1 of the Project.
     (b)  PPMR shall be  responsible  for  carrying  out the study
under Part H.2 of the Project.
     (c)  PPMR shall be  responsible  for  carrying out the review
under Part H.3 of the Project.
Part I of the Project
14.  COCOBOD shall reduce, in accordance with a program acceptable
to the Association, the cocoa farm input subsidies in three annual
steps and eliminate them by the end of 1989.
15.  COCOBOD  shall  take  all   steps  necessary  to  ensure  the
privatization of the farm input  system by 1992 in accordance with
the following program:
     (a)  Within one year from  the  Effective Date (first year of
Project implementation), private retailing of farm inputs shall be
introduced in the Eastern  Region.  COCOBOD shall continue to make
bulk deliveries at regional  level  or other bulk delivery points.
Retailers shall sell the farm  inputs to farmers at uniform prices
allowing  them  a  negotiated  margin  of  profit.  Based  on  the
experience gained, COCOBOD shall  then design a national retailing
network.
     (b)  In the second  year  of  Project implementation, private
retailing of farm inputs  shall  be  introduced in the Central and
Volta Regions taking into account the lessons learned in the first
Page  9
Project  implementation  year.   COCOBOD   shall  relinquish  bulk
delivery in  the  Eastern,  Central  and  Volta Regions. Retailers
shall sell the farm inputs at  prices which shall vary from region
to region depending on the  particular circumstances and shall be,
in general, higher than  in  the first Project implementation year
reflecting a reduced subsidy level.
     (c)  In the  third  year  of  Project implementation, private
retailing of farm inputs  shall  be  introduced in the Ashanti and
Brong-Ahafo Regions; bulk  delivery  by  COCOBOD  in these Regions
shall be relinquished. All inputs to farmers in the Regions so far
affected shall be sold at market prices.
     (d)  In  the  fourth  year  of  Project  implementation, bulk
delivery and retailing in the  Western Region shall be privatized.
Farm inputs to  farmers  shall  be  sold  at  market prices in all
Regions.
     (e)  Not later  than  May  31,  1991,  COCOBOD shall announce
that, starting in 1992,  the  private  sector shall be allowed, in
addition to the  retailing  activities,  to  import inputs for the
cocoa sector as approved by COCOBOD.
Part J of the Project
16.  Part J of the Project shall be carried out by:
     (a)  the Produce Buying  Company,  Ltd  (PBC) with respect to
buying, storing and hauling of cocoa;
     (b)  the Produce Inspection Division  with respect to grading
and inspection of cocoa; and
     (c)  the  Infestation  Control  Department  with  respect  to
infestation control.
17.  In order  to  rationalize  and  streamline  the  cocoa buying
system, PBC shall, not later than January 1, 1990:
     (a)  review the  role  and  function  of  each  of its buying
centers and forecast the annual  purchases of cocoa in each buying
center taking into account,  inter  alia, the establishment of new
farms, fire damage or  cutting  out  of cocoa trees, conditions of
roads and accessibility;
     (b)  close down  all  buying  centers  with forecasted annual
purchases of less than 25 tons; and
     (c)  convert  all  buying   centers  with  forecasted  annual
purchases between 25 and 50 tons into sub-societies which would be
visited once a week by a mobile buying unit.
