OFFICIAL
D0)1f MFNTEi}
CREDIT NUMBER 1854 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Cocoa Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1854 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           "/ ot"OLL         , 1988, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Develop-
ment Fund (ADF) a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount of twenty eight
million Funds Units of Account (FUA 28,000,000) equivalent to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and ADF;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) a loan (the BADEA Loan)
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and BADEA;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (U.K.) a
grant (the U.K. Grant) in an amount equivalent to eleven million
nine hundred thousand dollars ($11,900,000) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the U.K. Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the U.K.;
(E) Parts A through J of the Project will be carried out by
Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
COCOBOD part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and COCOBOD;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, whenever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and COCOBOD of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and COCOBOD pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "DFR" means the Department of Feeder Roads in the
Borrower's Ministry of Roads and Highways;
(e) "CRIG" means the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana;
(f) "CSD" means the Cocoa Service Division within COCOBOD;
(g) "PBC" means the Produce Buying Company, Ltd., a wholly
owned subsidiary of COCOBOD;
(h) "PPMR" means the Policy, Planning, Monitoring and
Research Department within COCOBOD;
(i) "CSSVD" means the Cocoa Swollen Shoot Virus Disease; and
(j) "PNDC" means the Provisional National Defense Council of
the Borrower.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 31,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation: (i) a special account (Special Account A) for the pur-
poses of Parts A through J of the Project; and (ii) a special
account (Special Account B) for the purposes of Part K of the
Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and
September 15 commencing March 15, 1998, and ending September 15,
2027. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
September 15, 2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement: (i) shall carry out Part K of the Project through DFR
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part K of the Project; and (ii)
shall cause COCOBOD to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of COCOBOD therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
necessary or appropriate to enable COCOBOD to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) relend, out of the proceeds of
the Credit, an amount not exceeding an amount equivalent of
SDR 11,200,000 or such other amount or amounts as shall be allo-
cated to Categories (1)(b), 2(b), 3(b), (5), (6)(b) and (7)(b) in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement to COCOBOD under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and COCOBOD, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and which shall include repayment over
twenty years, including five years of grace, interest at the rate
of 8.50% per annum and the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
COCOBOD; and (ii) make available to COCOBOD, out of the proceeds
of the Credit, an amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 12,160,000 or such other amount or amounts as shall be allo-
cated to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a), (4), 6(a) and (7)(a)
in said Schedule on a grant basis.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon any of its obliga-
tions under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(a) open and maintain in a commercial bank an account in the
name of DFR (the DFR Cocoa Account) on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association to be used exclusively for the purpose
of meeting expenditures under Part K of the Project not financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b) in addition to the initial amount referred to in Section
7.01 (c) of this Agreement, deposit in the DFR Cocoa Account,
promptly before each quarter starting October 1, 1988, the Bor-
rower's contribution towards expenditures under Part K of the
Project as set forth in DFR's annual budget for the following
quarter.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part K of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A through J of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A through J of the Project shall be carried out
by COCOBOD pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
August 31 of each year, submit to COCOBOD and the Association for
their respective approval DFR's proposed budget for its activities
under Part K of the Project and DFR's annual work program, said
program to be presented in such format as agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Association.
(b) Following approval of the annual work program by COCOBOD
and the Association, the Borrower shall carry out the activities
under Part K of the Project in accordance with said annual work
program.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the extension
work to be carried out in the Volta Region under the pilot opera-
tion referred to in paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement shall be carried out by the extension staff of its
Ministry of Agriculture.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all measures required
on its part to enable COCOBOD to reduce the cocoa farm input sub-
sidies and to privatize the farm input system pursuant to para-
graphs 14 and 15 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall not make any personnel
changes in the positions of (i) Chief Executive and Deputy Chief
Executives of COCOBOD, and (ii) the Director of DFR without prior
consultation with the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part K of the Project of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
Part K of the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 8 -
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of stateme,.nts of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to c-xaiine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
aration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain the roads con-
structed or rehabilitated under the Project and, from time to time
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals there-
of, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and admin-
istrative practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) COCOBOD shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that COCOBOD will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Ghana Cocoa Board Law, 1984, of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of COCOBOD to per-
form any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of COCOBOD or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project (including the ADF
Loan, the BADEA Loan and the U.K. Grant) shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿- 10 -
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and COCOBOD;
(b) all conditions precedent to the ADF Loan Agreement, the
BADEA Loan Agreement and the U.K. Grant Agreement (other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(c) the Borrower has deposited into the DFR Cocoa Account an
initial amount in Cedis equivalent to one million dollars
($1,000,000);
(d) the Borrower has furnished to the Association the cocoa
producer price arrangements satisfactory to the Association;
(e) COCOBOD has submitted to the Association its audited
accounts for fiscal years 1985 and 1986;
(f) COCOBOD has appointed suitable persons with experience
and qualifications acceptable to the Association for the following
positions: (i) the Executive Director of CRIG; (ii) the Deputy
Chief Executive for Finance and Administration; (iii) the Deputy
Executive Director (Ope:ations) of CSD; (iv) the Technical Manager
for Extension; (v) the Haulage Manager of PBC; (vi) Head of the
Management Information System and Data Bank of PPMR; and (vii) the
Head of M&E Units in COCOBOD headquarters.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by COCOBOD, and is legally binding upon COCOBOD in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and COCOBOD and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and COCOBOD in accordance with its
terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses Ere specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
PNDC Secretary for Finance and
Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECONOMICON                      2205 MIFAEP GH
Accra


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By   ki1I Ex c    O1 o
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 1E        V     ~     A     c
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                100% of foreign
expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
(a) under Parts A          630,000
through H of
the Project
(b) under Part J           310,000
of the Project
(c) under Lart K         5,780,000
of the Project
(2) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
materials:                                 expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
(a) under Parts A          940,000
through H of
the Project
(b) under Part I           470,000
of the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(c) under Fart J          1,720,000
of the Project
(d) under Part K             80,000
of the Project
(3) Vehicles:                                    100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(a) under Parts A           860,000
through H of
the Project
(b) under Part I            390,000
of the Project
(c) under Part J          1,560,000
of the Project
(4) CSSVD incentive            3,910,000         50%
payments
(5) Farm inputs                5,310,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
90%.of local
expenditures
(6) Consultants'                                 100%
services and
training:
(a) under Parts A         3,750,000
through H of
the Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(b) under Part J            390,000
of the Project
(c) under Part K            630,000
of the Project
(7) Operating costs:                             100% of foreign
expenditures and
40% of local
expenditures
(a) under Parts A           700,000
through H of
the Project
(b) under Part J             80,000
of the Project
(c) under Part K            630,000
of the Project
(8) Unallocated                3,160,000
TOTAL                 31.300.000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "operating costs" means those costs normally
referred to as recurrent expenditures, excluding salaries and
allowances for Project staff, but including:


﻿- 16 -
(i) cost of operating and maintaining vehicles, equip-
ment, buildings and houses required for the
Project;
(ii) office running expenses, cost of stationary and
supplies, library acquisitions and training
materials;
(iii) cost of maintaining the seed gardens and the irri-
gation system; and
(iv) such other Project related costs as the Borrower
and the Association may from time to time deter-
mine; and
(d) the term "CSSVD incentive payments" means the payments
by COCOBOD to farmers under Part E of the Project who are prepared
to cut out CSSVD infested cocoa stock and receive cutting out and
replanting grants in accordance with the program referred to in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not ex-
ceeding an amount equivalent to: (i) SDR 320,000 may be made in
respect of Category (1); and (ii) SDR 200,000 may be made in
respect of Category (6) (a) and (6) (b), on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1988;
(b) payments for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2)
(c), (3) (c), and (7)(b) after the aggregate of the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account under these Catego-
ries and the total amount of commitments entered into to pay
amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the said
Categories shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 2,080,000,
unless: (i) the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange
of views during the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, with the progress achieved
by COCOBOD in carrying out Part J of the Project; and (ii) the
Association and COCOBOD shall have reached agreement, in the con-
text of the mid-term review, on the future strategy for the inter-
nal cocoa marketing system; and


﻿- 17 -
(c) payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c),
(2) (d) , (6) (c) and (7) (c) unless: (i) COCOBOD has appointed a
roads engineer in accordance with the provisions set forth in
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and (ii) the
Borrower has appointed three training instructors, one procure-
ment/contract administrator and three contract supervisors, all
with qualifications and terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project. are: (i) to support the Bor-
rower's policy reforms in the cocoa sector; and (ii) to increase
cocoa production.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Reorganization of COCOBOD's Cocoa Services Division (CSD)
Support of CSD's reorganization through the preparation of a
comprehensive manpower development program and staff training.
Part B:   Extension Services
Strengthening of the extension services for cocoa farmers
through:
(1) the renovation and re-equipping of:
(a)   the Bunso Cocoa College;
(b)   the Farmer Training Centers; and
(c)   150 houses for region as well as district staff
and senior technical assistants;
(2) the acquisition of equipment, including vehicles,
motorcycles and a bus, for field staff and trainers; and
(3) the provision of training and consultants' services.
Part C: Production Technology
Adoption of improved production technologies in rehabilitat-
ing existing cocoa farms and launching a 10-year planting/replant-
ing program of new cocoa stock.
Part D: Seed Production and Distribution
(1) Increase of seed production in existing seed gardens
through the provision of equipment, materials and
inputs, vehicles and motorcycles.


﻿- 19 -
(2) Establishment and operation of a new cocoa station and
80 ha of seed gardens in the Western Region.
(3) Introduction of irrigated seed pod production on a pilot
basis.
(4) Provision of training (in-service and abroad) for seed
production staff.
Part E:   Disease Control
(1) Cutting out and replanting of cocoa stock in CSSVD
infected areas.
(2) Strengthening the CSSVD control program through the
provision of equipment, vehicles and consultants'
services.
Part F:   Research
Strengthening of CRIG's research capabilities through:
(1) the preparation and implementation of a comprehensive
staff development program, including training abroad and
in-service training;
(2) the rehabilitation and upgrading of CRIG's facilities,
including acquisition of equipment and vehicles; and
(3) the establishment and operation of a Farming Systems
Research Unit.
Part G:   Monitoring and Evaluation
Establishment and operation of monitoring and evaluation
units within COCOBOD.
Part H:   Studies
(1) A cocoa survey updating information on the tree stock.
(2) A study of the socio-economic aspects of cocoa farming.
(3) A review of COCOBOD's organizational structure.


﻿- 20 -
Part I:   Farm Input Supply
(1) Acquisition of farm inputs for the cocoa sector.
(2) A program for the gradual privatization of farm input
supply and distribution.
Part J:   Internal Marketing
Improvements to the internal marketing system through:
(1) the expansion and rehabilitation of storage and
transportation facilities;
(2) the acquisition of equipment and materials;
(3) the provision of training in the areas of accounting,
administration, management, and vehicle and plant
operation and maintenance;
(4) the preparation of a feasibility study on the use of
semi-mechanized methods.of produce handling; and
(5) the introduction and operation of an appropriate cost
accounting system.
Part K:   Road Program
Upgrading of the road network subjected to cocoa haulage
traffic through:
(1) a remedial spot improvement program covering about
3000 km of roads and bridges;
(2) a routine and recurrent road maintenance program;
(3) the construction of about 60 km of new roads and
bridges; and
(4) the acquisition of equipment, materials and vehicles for
field operations and site supervision.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works and vehicles estimated to cost less th,n the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $60,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.


﻿- 22 -
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account B, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furn-
ished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account B in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account B, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part K of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering, training and con-
tract administration consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to


﻿- 23 -
the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account A, Categories (1) (a) and (b), (2) (a), (b) and
(c), (3), (4), (5), (6) (a) and (b), and (7) (a) and (b) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(ii) in the case of Special Account B, Categories (1) (c), (2)
(d), (6) (c) and (7) (c) set forth in said table;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into each of the
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent to $200,000 in the case of Special Account A, and
equivalent to $500,000 in the case of Special Account B.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of any Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
corresponding Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the respective Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation concerned, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of such Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into such Special Account such amounts as shall be required to


﻿- 25 -
replenish such Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of such Special Account for eligible
expenditures, provided, however, that the Association may refrain
from making deposits into: (i) Special Account A upon failure by
COCOBOD to meet its obligations pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of
the Project Agreement; and (ii) Special Account B upon failure by
the Borrower to make the quarterly payments referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eli-
gible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account for whi3h the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into any Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the aggregate Authorized Allocations.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals


﻿- 26 -
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in any Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into any of the Special
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


