Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5020-LSO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
-         JJune 20, 1984
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                                   M Maloti (M) 0.8085
M1.00                          =         US$1.237
M1.OU                          =         RSA Rand (R) 1.00
US$1.00                        =          SDR 0.960245 (5/31/84)
NEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =         3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)            =         10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)               =         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)       =         0.3861 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                 =         2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                =         2.2046 pounds
1 metric ton                   =         2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APTC   -  Advanced Primary Teacher Cerfiticate
BSU    -  Book Supply Unit
COSC   -  Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
CTI    -  Commercial Training Institute
EEC    -  European Economic Community
IEMS   -  Institute of Extra-Mural Studies
IMRC   -  Instructional Material Resource Center
JC     -  General Secondary Junior Certificate
±AC    -  Lesotho Agricultural College
LDTC   -  Lesotho Distance Teaching Center
LIPA   -  Lesotho Institute of Public Administration
LIET   -  Lesotho In-Service Education for Teachers
LOIC   -  Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center
LTI    -  Lerotholi Technical Institute
LYS    -  Lesotho Youth Service
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOE    -  Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture
mOW    -  Ministry of Works
NCDC   -  National Curriculum Development Center
NTTC   -  National Teacher Training College
NUL    -  National University of Lesotho
PCR    -  Project Completion Report
PTC    -  Primary Teacher Certificate
RSA    -  Republic of South Africa
STC    -  (Junior) Secondary Teacher Certificate
TSRP   -  Training For Self Reliance Project (Project Implementation Unit)
TSU    -  Teacher Service Unit
TTS    -  Technician Training School
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
WUSC   -  World University Services of Carada
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 through March 31
The CounEry                         Lesotho
The People                          Mosotho (singular)
Basotho (plural)
The Language                        Sesotho



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
(i)
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY *0*SS6@O           ....................  (iii)
BASIC DATA sos       .......................................  (v)
I.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES         .................    1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting         I.................... 
Recent Developments and Prospects          ........................    2
Labor Force and Employment          ...............................    2
Il.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..se ..... ..........se.... ............    6
Overview ............              6..................    6
Administration and Structure of the Education System   .....   6
Government Priorities, Policies and Plans ................    9
Education Finance .s....            ..ssses.ss*ss ..            10
Role of the Bank Group in Education in Lesotho        ...........  12
Sector Lending Strategy ....... ................ssss.   14
III.  THE PROJECT .sss...s.s..s.ss.ss.s.sss..es.................. 14
Objectives 5@5U565 S*55S6S*    .........................        14
Project Components ..........e....sS5e5s....                    15
Primary Education ........        .......... ........,   15
Secondary Education s*ssss*e5555655*euse5SSS*C555555*55*   15
Vocational Education ......u..s      ........   ..............    17
In-service Training .............e......ss.................. 17
Institutional Support ......ss.........          ....ss   20
Specialized Studies .s.....sss.s.ssss.s...essss.s.sssss   20
Summary of Technical Assistance .                              21
Female Participation in the Education System ..s.              21
Coordination with Donor Agencies         .........................   21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Lesotho in December 1983. The mission consisted of Messrs. A.
Aime, Education Planner - Mission Leader and M. Giuseppi, Architect.  This
mission was preceeded by a Bank Group mission in July 1983 which assisted
the Government in its preparation of the project. This mission was
composed of Messrs. A. Aims, M. Giuseppi, J. Segerstrom (Technical
Educator), and Ms. J. Vial (Sr. Economist) all from EAPED.
This document hus a estceddstibution and my be usd by ecipients only in the performua or
thei ofici dud. It, contents my not oftxwi  be diclosed witout Wodd Bk auftriza



(ii)
Page No.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN ............ ..............      22
Project Cost *....................aee    22
Financial Plau ........  25
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS
AND AUDITING         ......................................*...    26
Implementation       ............. ..................*.....***    26
Maintenance of Facilities        .........................    28
Procureument ... .0...... ...... .00 ........S ....S.........   29
Disbursements 050505 5500 5555555555   .......................    30
Auditing * *                        ,                          32
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .......... 5...o ....... .0.sS 5 55 ..0.so.    32
Benefits                                                       32 .................  ...    .................    32
Risks  .SSS@50555555555505555505SOS0SSSSSSOOOSOOOSO0060    33
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS SS*SSSOOSSO......        33
ANNEX 1 TABLES AND CHARTS
Table  1 Comparative Education Indicators
Table  2 Ministry of Education Recurrent Expenditures, 1979180-1983/84
Table  3 Program for Primary School Improvements, 1980-2000
Table  4 Secondary Schools Benefitting from Project
Table  5 Projected Composition of Trained Teachers in
Primary Schools, 1980-2000
Table  6 Summary of Technical Assistance and Consultants
Table  7 Summary of Estimated Project Cost by Components
Table  8 Project Cost by Expenditure Category
Table  9 Project Expenditure by Currency
Table 10 Summary Project Cost
Table 11 Implementation Schedule
Table 12 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1 Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture
Organization Chart, 1983
Chart 2  Educational Pyramid, 1982
Chart 3  Education System, 1983
ANNEX 2  Items Financed by PPF Advance
ANNEX 3  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
ANNEX 4  Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
MAP      IBRD No. 18114



(iii)
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:       SDR 9.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA
Project Description:
Objective:    The project is designed to assist the Government in its
efforts to improve the quality, and efficiency of its
education system, and to meet identified manpower shortages,
in particular, in the business/commercial field.
Components:   The project would consist of the following:
(a) Provision of about 330 primary school classrooms,
including furniture and equipment, primarily to house
existing classes lacking adequate facilities. Also pit
latrines would be provided at the proposed new sites and at
about 50 additional existing sites; (b) in-service programs
for about: (i) 600 unqualified primary teachers; (ii) 200
primary school principals; (iii) 85 vocational teachers;
(iv) 120 secondary school principals during school vacations;
and (v) 6 architectural technicians per annum (total of about
30) who would work within the project implementation unit;
(c) at the secondary level upgrading of facilities and
equipment to eight existing schools to better accommodate
existing enrollments, supplementary equipment at 13 schools
to maximize the use of existing facilities, and supply only
of science equipment to 70 other schools inadequately
equipped; (d) establishment of a business/commercial stream
for about 50 students; (e) support to the Ministry of
Education, Sports and Culture to strengthen its data
processing capacity and textbook and equipment distribution
system; and (f) specialized studies.
Benefits:     The project would provide an improved learning environment
for about 16,500 primary school students, in-service training
for about 1,000 primary and secondary school teachers, and
principals and about 30 architectural technicians. Secondary
education would be improved through provisions of facilities
and science equipment.
Rlsks:        No major risks are anticipated.



(lv)
LESOTHO EDUCATION IV
Prolect Cost:                                       US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Primary Education             1.53      2.39       3.92
Secondary Education           0.51      1.16       1.67
Vocational Education          0.13      0.25       0.38
In-service Training           0.23      0.94       1.17
Institutional Support         0.08      0.18       0.26
Specialized Studies           0.03      0.14       0.17
Professional Services         0.67      0.44       1.11
Project Administration        0.50      0.25       0.75
Base Cost            T.         5.
Contingencies:
Physical              0.28      0.39      0.67
Price                 1.58      1.32      2.90
Sub-total          1.86       1.71      3.57
Total Project Cost            5.54      7.46      13.00
of which taxes
and duties           0.39        -        0.39
Total net Project Cost        5.15      7.46      12.61
Financial Plan:
IDA                           2.54      7.46      10.00
Government                    3.00       -         3.00
Total (including
taxes and duties)           5.54      7.46     13.00
Estlmated
Disbursements of IDA Credit:
------US$ Million-
IDA FY        1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual        1.00   1.20   2.40   2.80   2.40   0.20
Cumulative    1.00   2.20   4.60   7.40   9.80  10.00
Appraisal
Report;       Report No. 5020-LSO
Rate of
Return:       Not Applicable



(v)
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
BASIC DATA - 1982
Population                                               1,400,000
(includes an estimated 165,000 presently
working in the Republic of South Africa)
Population Growth Rate                                   2.4% p.a.
Modern-Sector Employment within Lesotho (1980)           41,300
GNP per capita                                          US$435 equivalent
Education
Primary Education (Grades 1-7)
- enrollments                                      278,000
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (6-12)                                 115X
Junior-Secondary Education 1/ (Grades 8-10)
- enrollments                                      23,000
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (13-15)                                20%
Senior-Secondary Education 1/ (Grades 11-12)
- enrollments                                      5,856
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (16-17)                                10.7X
Higher Education (National University of
Lesotho and Tertiary Institutions) 2/
- enrollments                                      2,031
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (18-22)                                1.3%
Literacy Rate                                      53%
Education Expenditures
Government Recurrent Expenditures in Education as a
percentage of Total Recurrent Expenditures (1982/83)           16.9X
Government Capital Expenditures in Education as a
percentage of Total Capital Expenditures (1982/83)             3.6%
Government Recurrent Expenditures in Education as a
percentage of GNP (1982/83)                                    4.6Z
1/ Includes General-secondary education, teacher training and vocational
and technical education.
2/ In addition 423 students are studying abroad at the post-graduate level.



KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      Situated in the south eastern part of the African continent, and
entirely surrounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA), the Kingdom of
Lesotho is one of the smallest and least developed countries in the
region. The terrain is rugged, soil erosion is extensive and only about
'13% of the land is suitable for crop production, the rest can only support
livestock (cattle, sheep, goats, pigs). The Basotho (singular, Mosotho)
population, estimated at 1.4 million in 1982 is mainly rural (about 85%),
ethnically homogeneous of Bantu origin and speaks a common language,
Sesotho. Most adults also speak English which is taught from the fourth
grade of primary school.
1.02      The country's economy is highly dependent on the RSA. Over half
of the male labor force (about 160,000 workers) is employed in the RSA, and
their remittances constitute over 40% of Lesotho's GNP. The Customs Union
formed by Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and the RSA as the senior partner,
provides over 70% of the Government's income. Over 95% of the country's
imports originate in tLe RSA, while its exports either end in the RSA or
are transferred to the rest of the world through RSA ports.
1.03      The absence from the country of over one half of the male labor
force has far reaching effects on the country's socio-economic fabrics.
Although by tradition most of the males, whether absent or present,
continue to be regarded as heads of family, the role of women and male
children becomes unusually important in the domestic production process.
It has been estimated that de facto, about 65Z of households are managed by
women, while a large number of boys assist in agricultural and pastoral
activities, mainly taking care of the herds.
1.04      The large group of rural households for which workers remittances
constitute a main source of income, explains to a great extent the
prevailing stagnation of agricultural production and sharp decline of the
area under cultivation (about 20% since 1950). The low returns from
farming as compared to employment abroad have acted as a disincentive for
efficient farming and induced the adoption of a low input, low return, low
risk system of cultivation. Livestock which has traditionally played a
major role in the economic and social life of the country is viewed as the
most reliable source of investment and wealth accumulation. The expansion
of the herds has contributed to serious overgrazing and consequent soil
erosion. It has also been the main factor responsible for the lower school
attendance of boys in rural areas.



-2-
Recent Developments and Prospects
1.05      During the 1970's and despite the country's limited resource
endowment, Lesotho's GNP grew at an impressive average rate of 9Z per annum
in real terms. In the last two4years, however, because df the detrimental
effects of world recession compounded by a prolonged drought and the
closing of the only large diamond mine In the country, the rate of economic
growth is estimated to have declined to only 3Z per annum. At the
prevailing exchange rate, GNP per capita ln 1982 was estimated at about
US$435 equivalent.
1.06      The slower expansion of the economy was accompanied  by
increasing fiscal deficits. These were to a great extent financed by
commercial borrowing, the service of which, is placing a heavy burden on
the budget. Although in 1982/83, there was noticeable lmprovement in the
fiscal outcome due to a concerted effort to keep expenditures under control
through freeze in Government employment and wages and reduction on public
investment, further improvement is urgently required.
1.07      Mainly because of Lesotho's limited natural resources and likely
decline in employment openings in the RSA, development prospects do not
appear promising. Nevertheless, opportunities do exist for economic
improvement. These include explotation of the country's hydroelectric
potential, introduction of high-value crops, improved range and crop land
management and further development of livestock-based export industries.
However, in order to succeed along these lines, it is necessary to restore
the public sector financial health and in general increase the efficiency
of public sector management and operation. In particular, the planning and
budgetary processes need special attention. It is also necessary to
provide the citizenry with the specific skills required for the effective
implementation of projects in the above mentioned fields.
Labor Force and Employment
1.08      Following the 1976 population census, a number of studies on
manpower in Lesotho have been undertaken. These have varied in scope but
have tended to emphasize particular segments of the labor force, namely
those engaged in the country's formal sector. A study recently published
by the Bureau of Statistics based on a 1978/79 national sample survey
'Migration and Manpower in Lesotho-, appears to be the most comprehensive.
At the time of the survey, it estimated total labor force, at about 596,000
of which about 160,000 men and 11,000 women were migrant workers.
1.09      Current information on numbers of Basotho working in the RSA is
available only for those working in the mines and who represent almost 80%
of the Basotho males in the RSA. Since 1977 their number has declined by
about 9Z, and in 1982 were estimated at about 117,000. This decline is
expected to continue because of increasing pressures to employ more black
South Africans in the mines and increased mechanization. The effects of
further reduction of working opportunities in the RSA will be far reaching



-3-
for Lesotho.   At the same time the creation of the "homelands' in the RSA
is attracting some highly qualified manpower from Lesotho, e.g. five
professors at the University of Lesotho transferred to the newly created
University of the Transkei. This type of emigration represents a serious
loss to Lesotho which suffersfrom shortage of skills. Thus, it has become
crucially urgent to take action regarding programs conducive to the
improvement of the domestic economy along the lines mentioned above (pars.
1.07) and at the same time to upgrade the labor force for their effective
implementation.
1.10      The 1978/79 survey estimated that about 415,000 people, of whom
65Z were women, were working in Lesotho. In addition, some 10,000 were
unemployed. The distribution of those employed by industry and type of
work was as follows:
Structure of Employment According to the
1978/79 Survev
in 000's)
Type of Worker
Industry          1 Total I           I          I         | Unpaid t
I                        I        I Salaried iSalaried I Self   I Family I
1                        1        ' Gay't    Private 1Employed   Work ;
I All Industries         1 415.0 5  23.7        36.2   1 120.8    234.3
| Agriculture, Hunting,  I        I          I          I         \        1
Forestry                 342.6 1   4.7        10.1   § 106.2    221.6
Manufacturing, Mining,          I          I          I         I        I
Construction            1 33.5 j    7.0   g 12.4   |   7.6          6.5  {
Trade, Services, Other 1 38.9 j  12.0   I 13.7   j   7.0  |  6.2  j
As it has often been pointed out and as shown above, the dominant
characteristic of the country's labor force is the small size of the wage
sector (less than 14% of the work force) and the high share of Government
workers within this group (40%). These estimates of the wage sector exceed
by far recent estimates of employment in the modern sector. However, if
the wage employment in agriculture shown above is excluded, as It is done
for the modern sector estimates, the discrepancies would not be
significant. Regarding unpaid family workers in the agriculture sector
(95Z of total family workers) it has to be borne in mind that their
employment is seasonal. The data in the table relate to a round in the



-4-
survey carried out at the peak of agricultural activity and thus would
include the maximum number of family members who would be Involved in farm
work during the year.
1.11    The survey indicated ihat almost one-half of the males working in
Lesotho had little or no education. This was particularly serious among
those engaged in agriculture where only 2% had completed junior secondary
education. Even of those holding managerial and professional positions in
urban areas, 23% had little or no education and an additional 42Z had not
completed junior secondary education. For female workers, the situation
was substantially better, with over 80% having at least completed the seven
years of primary education.
1.12    Assuming that the labor force would grow at about 2.4% per annum
(estimated growth for the population as a whole), on average 15,000 to
20,000 new job seekers per year would be added in the next ten years. With
declining employment opportunities in the RSA, and with the country's
modern sector estimated not to be able to create more than 2,000-2,500 new
jobs per year, the bulk of the new comers into the job market will have to
be absorbed by traditional activities, mainly agriculture and livestock
related.
1.13    For the agricultural sector to increase its income generating
capacity as it is urgently needed, substantial technical and managerial
changes will have to be introduced at the farm level. In order to
implement these changes, the educational standards of the sector's labor
force will have to be upgraded. A population which has attained a certain
level of basic education is more receptive to innovation and has the
capacity to pursue further formal or informal specialized training as
required.   Thus, the provision of basic education becomes a crucial
element for the future development of the economy.
1.14    The National Manpower Development Secretariat's latest estimates
for the modern sector relate to 1980. On the basis of these estimates, a
study on the future growth of the labor force was prepared in 1981 1/.
The 1980 employment estimates and the 1990 projections in the study are
summarized as follows:
1/ See Dr. Meredith Burke, -The Outlook for Labor Force Growth and
Employment 1980-2000", July 1981.



-5-
Employment in the Modern Sector 1980 - 1990
(in 000')
Industry                            1980                   1990
All Industries                      41.3                   61.5
Manufacturing and Mining             4.8                   10.7
Construction                         4.6                    6.9
Wholesale and Retail Trade           8.5                   12.9
Utilities and Other Services         4.3                    6.9
Government                          13.1                   15.9
Education                            6.0                    8.2
Although the employment growth rate of about 4% per annum projected for the
modern sector for the 1980's may not have been excessively optimistic at
the time of the study, there are indications that growth in the first years
of the decade has lagged far behind such projections and that the chances
for the modern sector to attain an employment of over 60,000 by 1990 are
becoming increasingly unlikely. At the same time, there are also
indications that in certain subsectors the expansion of employment has been
constrained by shortage of skills. In a survey of establishments (covering
the Government, parastatals and private establishments employing five or
more workers) carried out in mid 1980 2/, of those establishments
reporting hindrance in employment expansion, the most frequent reason
provided for such hindrance was shortage of skilled manpower. Regarding
vacancies, 343 of the 774 establishments surveyed reported about 800
vacancles. The most frequently reported vacancies were for the following
positions: managerial and supervisory (160), teaching at all levels
(145), engineering and technico-mechanical (85), textile workers (80),
construction workers (35) and accountancy (32). These vacancies represent
only a fraction of training requirements in the specific fields if compared
with the number of staff occupying positions for which they are not
qualified (para. 1.11).
1.15    Until recently, open unemployment In Lesotho was very low at about
2X of the labor force. Lately, however, there are indications that in
urban areas unemployment is Increasing rapidly, mainly due to the decline
in new hirings for the RSA mines and migration into the cities. The bulk
of the unemployed are unskilled 3/ and unless they are trained they would
have little or no possibility of-obtaining gainfull employment in the
modern sector.
2/ UNDP/ILO Project: 'Survey of Establishment in Lesotho, 1980" prepared by
S.S. Honda for the Department of Labor, dated September 1981.
3/ The 1978/79 survey Indicated that over 90X of those working in the RSA
and those unemployed In Lesotho had partial primary education or no
education.



-6-
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview
2.01      Lesotho's education system is still a joint venture between the
Government and the churches where the latter operate 97% of the primary and
86Z of the secondary schools (para. 2.03). Without such a joint
administration, Lesotho would not have reached in the past, and could not
maintain now, such a high level of literacy.
2.02      The education system suffers from critical problems including the
decline of quality; high drop-out and repetition rates; poor facilities and
staffing at the primary and secondary levels; high costs to Government and
parents; weak management and professional supervision and lack of effective
quality control owing to the nature of examinations and of continuous
assessment used to determine pupils' achievement.
Administration and Structure of the Education System
2.03      The administrative, financial, and academic control of the formal
education system is vested in the Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture
(MOE). The MOE trains and appoints teachers, administers examinations,
reviews and authorizes curricula, regulates the opening and closing of
schools, inspects the operation of all schools, and pays teachers'
salaries. Although the National University of Lesotho (NUL) is
administered by an independent council, the MOE provides the bulk of its
recurrent budget and is represented on its council. Additional special
training programs are operated by the Ministries of Agriculture, Trade and
Industry, Cooperatives and Rural Development, Health, the Prime Minister's
Office, and in the industrial sector by the Lesotho National Development
Corporation. Annex 1, Table 1 lists the comparative education indicators.
The organization of the MOE is shown in Chart 1 and the structure of the
education system in Charts 2 and 3. The system consists of seven years of
primary education, five years of secondary education (three years of junior
secondary and two years of senior secondary) and four to six years of
higher education.
2.04      The MOE's Planning Unit is responsible for the preparation of
long term plans and policies, admiaistration of the capital budget, and the
preparation and review of proposed education projects. Major achievements
during the last two years have been the completion of a school mapping
exercise, the computerization of education statistics and the preparation
of an Education Sector Survey. The Education Sector Survey, published
November 1982, reviews the education system and sets forth the objectives
and policies providing the country with a long awaited education strategy.
The crucial step now is the implementation of the proposed strategy. These
policies are reviewed In paragraphs 2.17 and 2.18. A major result of the



-7-
Survey was the adoption of a new Education Act (July 1983) which provides
legislation for, inter alia, the establishment of a unified Teaching
Service Commission under the HOE control replacing the missions as teacher
employers.                   It
2.05      The National Curriculum Development Division created in 1975 is
responsible for the review of curricula, adaptation of syllabi and training
of teachers. During the last three years, with external assistance, they
have updated the English, Sesotho and mathematics syllabi. Work is
continuing on other subjects.
2.06      Primary Education (grades 1-7) is conducted in Sesotho (the
national language) for the first four years and mainly in English in grades
5 through 7. In 1982, total gross enrollments were about 278,000,
equivalent to 123% of the female population and 102Z of the male population
aged 6 to 12. About 30Z of the primary enrollments were overaged
students. The age of entry is dropping rapidly and more males are
attending school, e.g. in 1975 females outnumbered males by almost 50Z,
while in 1982, they outnumbered them by only 14%.
2.07      In 1980, automatic promotion was replaced by a system of
continuous assessment which requires a regular system of testing and
recording of pupils achievements based on curriculum objectives.
Nevertheless, in 1982, only about 27% of the pupils who had in 1975 started
the first grade were in the seventh grade and had taken the final national
examination. About 72% passed the primary completion examination, with
about 43Z of these entering junior-secondary schools.
2.08      In 1982 the primary-schools teaching force of 5,295, all Basotho,
gave a teacher-pupil ratio of 1:48. About 36Z of the teachers
were unqualified. To assist in the improvement of the quality of the
teaching staff, an in-service program for unqualified teachers is operated
jointly by the National Teacher Training College (NTTC) and the Lesotho
Distance Teaching Center (LDTC). This training program will be supported
by the proposed project (para. 3.09).
2.09      General-Secondary Education (grades 8-12) had a total enrollment
of about 29,000 in 1982 (60% girls), the equivalent of about 16.4% of the
population aged 13-17. Of the general secondary enrollments, 83Z were in
junior-secondary courses and 23% were boarders. The language of
instruction throughout the general secondary cycle is English. In 1982,
1,314 secondary-school teachers (about 30% unqualified) were employed,
resulting in a teacher student ratio of 1:21. As in primary education, an
in-service program is underway to improve teacher qualifications and skills
(para 3.09).
2.10      Largely due to the lack of a well-formulated expansion policy,
the number of general-secondary schools has increased rapidly, from 60
schools in 1975 to 108 in 1982. This uncontrolled expansion has negatively
affected the examinations results of the General Secondary Junior
Certificate (JC) and the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC).



-8-
2.11      Vocational and Technical Education.  In 1982, enrollments in
vocational courses were about 1,600 of which over one-third were in home
economics, about one-fourth in construction trades, and smaller numbers in
motor mechanics, electrical engineering, secretarial, business and
administrative skills, etc. The courses were offered in eleven
junior-secondary-level schools and in five senior-secondary-level schools,
as well as in the Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center (LOIC)
which provides vocational on-the-job training experience, work counselling,
and placement assistance. Technical education is offered at the
Polytechnic located on the Lesotho Technical Institute (LTI) campus. The
Polytechnic consists of: the Technician Training School (TTS), which offers
diploma courses in civil, mechanical and electrical engineering, and
architecture and the Commercial Training Institute (CTI) which offers
business courses. The graduates are in high demand by industry and other
employers such as the fiinistry of Works.
2.12      Agricultural education is offered at the post-primary level at
six Farmer Training Centers (180 students in total) and, at the certificate
and diploma levels, at the Lesotho Agricultural College (LAC). In i982,
the LAC enrolled about 170 students in rural domestic economy, a
diploma-level course in general agriculture, agricultural engineering and
forestry. The diploma-level courses are taught under the dual sponsorship
of the NUL and the LAC.
2.13      Teacher training for primary and junior-secondary education is
provided by the NTTC. The college offers three courses leading
respectively to the Primary Teacher Certificate (PTC), the Advanced Primary
Teacher Certificate (APTC) (a special administrative course which upgrades
qualified primary teachers to become principals), and the Junior Secondary
Teacher Certificate (STC). Senior-secondary teacher education iS the
responsibility of the Faculty of Education at the NUL. The University
offers Bachelor of Education and Master of Education degrees. Since
1977/78, the NUL has run two special programs, the first to train more
mathematics and science teachers, and the second to train teacher trainers
for the NTTC and for the MOE Inspectorate.
2.14      Non-formal education courses are provided by the MOE through the
LDTC and by four other Ministries (Agriculture, Health, Interior and
Cooperatives and Rural Development). In addition, courses are provided by
the Prime Minister's Office, five non-statutory agencies, the NUL, and by
over 400 church and voluntary groups with little cooperation and
coordination among them. The LDTC provides: (a) correspondence courses at
the JC and COSC levels; (b) formal and non-formal educational radio
programs; (c) coordination for the MOE's adult non-formal education
programs; and (e) support to mass media in Lesotho.
2.15      A School of Accountancy, established in 1980 with technical
assistance provided by the Government of Ireland, has been offering
accountancy training to about 100 full-time and another 60 part-time



-9-
trainees. Business and management certificate and short term courses in
bookkeeping and the management of cooperatives, are provided by the NUL's
Institute of Extra-Mural Studies (IEMS).
2.16      The National University of Lesotho offers courses in education,
humanities, natural sciences, social sciences, agriculture, theology, and
law. In 1982/83, NUL enrolled 935 Basotho and 198 foreign students (total
of 1,133 students) attending degree, diploma and other post-secondary
programs. In addition, 300 students were pursuing part-time certificate
and diploma courses. Students qualifying for university study now receive
a loan from the Government which replaced the free fellowship program which
had existed in the past. Graduates have generally beev able to obtain
Government employment, especially as secondary school teachers. However,
.in the future, it may be difficult to absorb most graduates within the
country (paras. 1.09 and 1.15).
Government Priorities, Policies and Plans
2.17      The main recommendations of the Education Sector Survey (para.
2.04) were: (a) to improve the quality and efficiency of primary education;
(b) to emphasize mathematics and science and expand practical studies in
general secondary education; (c) develop vocational, technical, and higher
education to meet national manpower needs in both the modern and rural
sectors; Cd) extend and coordinate non-formal education programs; and (e)
improve the joint Government mission coordination, and supervision of
education activities.
2-.18     The Government plans to achieve: (a) universal primary education
by the year 2000; (b) development of curriculum relevant to Lesotho's
realities and needs, including improvement in the teaching of Sesotho; (c)
provision of instructional materials for all children at primary level; (d)
expansion of practical subjects at the secondary level; (e) addition of
training facilities at the technical schools and at diversified secondary
schools for rural out-of-school youth and adults; (f) expansion of the
pre-service and in-service teacher-training programs, in order to increase
to 75% the number of primary teachers qualified by the year 2000; (g)
expansion of non-formal training in agriculture; (h) improvement and
expansion of health and literacy programs; (i) upgrading the technical
institute to the polytechnic level; and (j) expansion of the university
facilities to add agriculture, engineering and medicine facilities while
improving its coordination with the existing institutions. In respect to
these objectives the following should be noted: (a) Lesotho, with over 90X
-.of its students attending primary school has basically achieved universal
primary education. The issue of equity (increasing the opportunities of
the rural children) still needs attention but in consideration of the
Government's limited financial resources and of the high level of self
financing at that level (Government pays only teacher salaries with all the
other expenses paid by the parents) limited growth In the immediate future
will be possible. Attention should be given to improving the quality of
_ _



- 10 -
primary education; (b) with donor assistance the English, Sesotho and
mathematics courses have been revised. Work has started in the other
subjects; (c) effective January 1984 textbooks in English, Sesotho and
mathematics were distributed to all the primary schools. (Funding was
available through IDA Third Education Project); Cd) the facilities built
for practical subjects still experience a low utilization rate therefore
rather than continuing with the expansion of expensive facilities, mor-
attention should be given to upgrading the equipment in the existing
facilities to allow for an increase of their usage; (e) during the last ten
years the vocational technical facilities were more than tripled without
sufficient analysis of the programs and the cost efficient use of the
facilities. The shortage of qualified teachers has also negatively
affected the qualitative output of these schools. An analysis of the
programs offered, of the facilities available and of the training needs is
urgently required; (f) the need to upgrade unqualified teachers currently
teaching is needed and is essential if the quality of primary education is
to be improved. Taking into consideration the economic situation of the
country the objective of having 75Z of the primary teachers qualified by
year 2,000 is realistic; (g) the policy to expand the non-formal training
in agriculture should continue to receive donor assistance and if that
assistance was to be reduced or stopped IDA should consider getting
involved; (h) the LDTC and Health Training Unit have initiated health and
literacy programs. These are positive programs which should be continued;
Ci) efforts to upgrade the quality of the polytechnic programs (business
and technician) is essential to make these more related to the manpower
needs; (j) the policy to expand the university should not be supported at
this time. Consolidation of its programs, and affiliation with other
universities for agriculture, engineering and medicine programs should be
considered. The recurrent costs of the university (unit cost about
US$6,500) should be reviewed and cost saving measures undertaken at the
earliest. As explained above some of the Government's objectives are
overambitious while others are attainable if Lesotho continues to benefit
from substantial assistance from external donors.
Education Finance
2.19      Traditionally, financing of education in Lesotho has been shared
by the Government, the local private sector (mainly through students' fees)
and direct contributions from abroad, whether in kind or cash, made by
churches, and bilateral and multilateral development agencies. Although it
is not possible to quantify the latter contributions, there are indications
that as far as recurrent outlays are concerned they have declined steadily
in recent years and have become only a marginal source of financing. Of
total financing by the first two groups,which accounted for 5.5Z of GNP In
1982/83, the Government's participation represents about 80% of the total.
This participation covers basically administration expenditures of the MOE,
teachers' salaries at all levels, most recurrent costs of the NUL
(including student loans) and a high share of investment in the sector.
For the financing of the capital investments, the Government relies heavily
on grants and credits from abroad, channelled through the MOE budget.



- 11 -
2.20      Of the MOE recurrent expenditures in education (averaging about
20Z of total Government recurrent expenditures in recent years, Annex 1,
Table 2), the share of primary education (including the inspectorate) has
remained relatively stable at! about 42Z of the total. The share of
post-primary education (including LTI and NTTC) rose sharply from about 28Z
in 1979/80 and has now stabilized at about 32% of the total. For these two
levels of education virtually all Government financing is carried out
through the MOE. For the NUL, however, the identified share of about 20Z
of the recurrent budget of the MOE understates the Government's
contribution to that level, since student loans, the repayment of which is
somewhat doubtful and which are outside the MOE's budget, add over 20Z to
Government contribution to the financing of NUL.
2.21      In 1982/83, the recurrent unit costs per student to the
Government of primary education has been estimated to average M 39; for
general secondary education H 254; and for the University N 6,411. For
primary and secondary education, these costs are among the lowest in the
Eastern Africa Region, while for the University they are among the highest
in the region. If the estimated local private contribution used for the
financing of recurrent expenditures is added to the costs to the
Government, the unit costs for primary, secondary and higher education
would be as follows: M 45, M 337 and M 6,509, respectively. From a
financial as well as from an equity point of view, the high cost and the
extremely high share of the Government's financing of higher education is a
matter of concern. While in primary and secondary education all students
pay fees 4/ which cover most expenditures outside teachers' salaries
(including some investment expenditures) in the University, only a small
number of students who are not included in the Government's bursary program
pay for part of the cost of their education. In 1982/83, their contribution
covered only 1.5% of the total recurrent expenditures of the University.
2.22      Government investment expenditureq in education both in absolute
terms and in relation to the Government's total capital expenditures have
fluctuated sharply in recent years. They attained M 6.5 million in 1981/82
(9.7% of total capital expenditure) and declined to M 2.3 million in
1982/83 (3.6% of total capital expenditure). The structure and level of
capital expenditures in education have been closely associated with the
implementation of specific projects with substantial external financing.
For example, during the period 1-78 through early 1982, which coincided
with the last stages of implementation of the First IDA assisted Education
Project and the entire implementation of the Second IDA assisted Education
41 In primary education, depending on the school and student grade (1
through 7), the fees range from H 5 to as much as M 50 per year. In
secondary education, also depending on the school, student grade (8
through 12) and the type of student (day or boarder), these range from
n 80 to as much as M 450 per year.



-12-
Project (para. 2.25), investment was high and concentrated in secondary
education as emphasized in both projects. A relatively slow start in the
implementation of the Third IDA assisted Education Project (para. 2.25) was
associated with a low level of investment in 1982/83. This investment
concentrated on primary education, the main project component.
2.23      Because the present fiscal constraints are not expected to ease
in the next two to three years, the total recurrent budget for education
may have to remain constant in real terms during the period.
Thereafter, modest annual increases in resources can be expected. Thus, it
has become of extreme urgency to implement cost savings and cost recovery
programs. Among the former the rationalization of the deployment of
teachers in secondary schools should result in a reduction of staff costs
per student. However, it is within the NUL where costs appear to be out of
line and where through a better management and organization major savings
can be realized. At present the teacher-student ratio is very low (1:7)
and total staff numbers, including non-teaching staff, almost equals the
student enrollment numbers. The staff both academic and administrative
should be substantially reduced. 1Furthermore, a system of effective
student contribution to the financing of the NUL should be established. A
recent Bank Group study on the financing of the NUL is expected to provide
guidance on these matters.
2.24      Regarding financing of education, the resources required will
depend very highly on future fertility rates. The recent World Bank Study
Financing of Education in Eastern Africa points out that if Lesotho retains
the present fertility rate by year 2015 the recurrent cost of education
would increase by 185%. If on the other hand there was an intermediate
decline in population growth from 2.4X to about 2.0X in 2015 the present
recurrent cost for education would increase by 101%. Finally, if by year
2015 a rapid decline in population growth had occurred from 2.4Z to about
1.O the recurrent cost for education would only increase by 3%. Based on
tite above observations and the difficult financial situation experienced by
Lesotho, close attention should be given to population policies.  Future
dialogue on such policies will be undertaken through a planned FY85 Health
and Population project.
Role of the Bank Group in Eduction in Lesotho
2.25      Past Experience.  The Bank Group, which is the major source of
external capital financing for education in Lesotho, has assisted the
development of education and training since 1974 through three education
projects:
(a) The First Education Project (Credit 497-LSO), approved in
July 1974, for US$4.0 million, was designed to (i) expand technical and
commercial education at the senior secondary level; (ii) establish an
extension college (the Lesotho Distance Teaching Center) for adult and
non-formal education; and (iii) provide facilities and equipment for the
introduction of a new and more practically oriented curriculum in six
general-secondary schools. The project was completed by the original
_ -



-13-
Credit Closing Date (March 31, 1979), and a Project Completion Report (PCR)
was issued October 30, 1979. The June 1980 OED Audit Report No. 2999 noted
that the project's educational objectives and targets, apart from the
limited enrollment in the distance teaching program, had been
satisfactorily achieved.
(b) The Second Education Project (Credit No. 748-LSO), approved
in November 1977, for US$7.5 million, was designed to (i) expand two
senior-secondary technical schools; (ii) establish a trade-testing system;
(iii) unify and encourage curriculum-development efforts through the
provision of a National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC); (iv) increase
the number of general secondary schools with facilities for the new, more
practical curriculum; and (v) encourage a community-outreach program and
the use of project-provided facilities during free periods by adults and
out-of-school youth. After getting off to a good start, the project
encountered delays in implementation due to weak administration. However,
the problem was resolved in early 1980 and implementation improved
significantly, although a postponement of the Credit Closing Date by one
year to December 31, 1982, was approved to allow completion of all
components. A PCR was issued on May 23, 1984. Conclusions reveal more
attention should have been given to the institutional building aspects of
project administration and that unless due attention is given to the
improvement of management at the MOE and school levels, efforts to improve
efficiency and quality will produce only limited results. These items are
being addressed in the proposed project (paras. 3.13 and 3.19).
(c) The Third Education Project (Credit 1148-LSO), which was
approved in May 1981 and became-effective on September 24, 1981, provides
US$10.0 million for (a) the improvement in quality of primary education
through construction of 150 classrooms and provision of 1.9 million
workbooks and textbooks in three subjects: English, mathematics and
Sesotho; and (b) the expansion of vocational training facilities through
support for the Thaba Tseka Vocational Training Center and the Lesotho
Opportunities Industrialization Center. Implementation of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily and the project is expected to close as scheduled
in September 1986.
2.26      Lessons Learned.  The OED Audit Report for the First Education
Project, the draft PCR of the Second Education Project, as well as
supervision missions of the ongoi-ng project have noted, inter alia, that:
(a) particular attention should be given to improving the
quality of primary education, and to programs to train youth
and adults in vocational skills; (b) the MOE should improve
and strengthen its policy-planning and policy-implementing
capacity; 5/ (c) more attention should be given to
resolving the problem of access of poorer students to
5/ USAID, UNESCO and British High Commission are assisting the MOE in
these areas.



- 14 -
fee-charging secondary schools 6/; (d) future Bank Group
investments in secondary education should hinge on the
conditionality that the Government implement its official
policies; and (e) the issue of the weak HOE anagement and
school principals need to be addressed if efforts to improve
the quality of education are to succeed.
Sector Lending Strategy
2.27      Since the greatest national resource of Lesotho is its people,
the Bank Group strategy for future lending in the education and training
sector should, in particular, assist the Government in its efforts to
continue to improve the quality and efficiency of its basic education
'system and to provide its people with the skills which would enhance their
employment opportunities. Consistent with this strategy, future projects
should support institution building by strengthening the administrative
capability of the MOE and the Project Implementation Unit to enable them to
efficiently carry out the Government's objectives; continue to support the
primary and secondary levels; assist with commercially oriented
agricultural education to increase local production and reduce agricultural
imports; and provide for additional assistance to planning and research
activities.
III. THE PROJECT
ObJectives
3.01      The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in Its
efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of its education system.
Specifically, it would assist an investment program consisting of: (a)
provision of primary school classrooms, including furniture and equipment:
(b) support for in-service training programs for primary, secondary and
vocational teachers and training in school administration for primary
principals; (c) provision of facilities and science equipment at the
secondary level; (d) establisbment of a business/commercial stream at an
existing vocational school; and (e) specialized studies including
evaluation of the teacher in-service training programs.
6/  UNESCO has funded an Education Economist assigned to the MOE Planning
Unit to study the budgetary system and school fees.  Also, as part of
the ZAN sector work, an education finance study is under preparation.



- 15 -
Project Components
Primary Education
3.02      Primary Classroom Facilities.  The September 1980 mapping
exercise revealed that Lesotho had one of Africa's most critical primary
classroom shortage. For the 1980 enrollment of 244,800 pupils, there were
only 2,843 classrooms which meant that there was only one classroom for
every 86 pupils. To reach the MOE's goal of one classroom for every 45
pupils, the country would require 2,584 new classrooms (Annex 1, Table 3).
In addition, the mapping exercise revealed that only 72% of the existing
classrooms were adequate, 10% were in such bad shape that they should be
replaced and 18Z were in dire need of renovation. It is likely however
that the majority of the classrooms that should be replaced will continue
to be used for some time. Also, that Government, due to a lack of funds
will continue to allow the school management to collect maintenance fees
and expect them to look after the renovation needs (para. 5.08). In
addition, the mapping exercise also revealed that 65Z of the pupils were
inadequately seated (40X sit on the floor and 15% have unsuitable
seating). This accounts for almost all the children in the lower grades.
.Finally, of the schools in the mountain areas, 75% do not offer seven
grades, making it difficult for the children in these rural areas to fully
complete primary education.
3.03      The project would provide about 330 classrooms including storage
facilities, pit latrines and furniture at approximately 100 existing
primary schools. Classroom facilities would only be provided to schools
where students attend school in the open air or in inadequate facilities
and where teachers already exist. The main focus of the component is to
provide classrooms in the remote mountain areas where the largest shortage
of classrooms exists. Funds for pit latrines would also be included for
about 50 additional existing primary schools. As a result of the school
mapping exercise, all schools to be provided additional facilities have
been identified.
3.04      The classrooms would be simple in design and would accommodate 50
pupils each, and would be furnished with a chalkboard, seats and desks for
the pupils, lockable cupboard to store books and a desk and chair for the
teacher. The program would be a continuation of the Third Education
Project which is now implementing the primary classroom component and is
presently about one and a half y ars ahead of schedule.  As in the Third
Education Project, local communities would be asked to contribute to the
improvement of the schools by providing teacher housing or other ancilliary
facilities (kitchen, food storage sheds, etc.).
Secondary Education
3.05      Secondary School Facilities.  In November 1982, the HOE completed
a three-year review of the education system and produced a policy report
entitled Education Sector Survey (para. 2.04). This document addresses the



- 16 -
issues of proliferation of secondary schools, their staffing and the usage
of the facilities. The Government has agreed to implement the Survey's
policy recommendations and on that basis provision for secondary facilities
have been included. The project would include provision for teaching and
ancilliary facilities at eight secondary schools.  The proposed facilities
would not expand the system and would only provide to existing schools,
facilities needed to improve the quality of education.  All the schools
retained already have enrollments which exceed their present physical
facilities and fit the expansion criteria outlined in the Education Sector
Survey. The schools selected are listed in Annex 1, Table 4. To
facilitate the implementation of the new secondary education policies, the
proposed project includes technical assistance (8 man-months) to prepare a
plan for a more efficient use of the facilities and staff. During
negotiations, a satisfactory report was received which included: (a) an
analysis of thirty existing secoidary school facilities; (b) a review of
the present utilization of existing staff; (c) a review of the
appropriateness of the curriculum; and (d) science equipment lists for the
selected secondary schools. It was also agreed that by December 31, 1984
the Government would submit to the Association for its review and comments
a plan of action based on the results of the study for more efficient use
of the secondary facilities (para. 7.01.a).
3.06      Equipment Supply.  Most of the secondary schools do not have the
equipment needed to adequately teach science courses with the result that
the examination results in these subjects have been deteriorating for about
ten years. In many cases the students are examined on experiments they
have never performed and in some cases where they have never even seen the
equipment. The Education Sector Survey recognized the urgent need to
improve the teaching of science subjects and of finding alternative methods
to purchase the equipment and materials required. To resolve the supply
problem and improve the qualitative teaching of science, the MOE plans to
bulk purchase science equipment and materials. The equipment and materials
would be supplied to the schools for a replacement fee. Only the schools
of an acceptable size (about 70) and as identified in the Education Survey
would be supplied with the equipment and materials to enable them to
effectivel." teach chemistry, physics, biology, and general science courses
at the junior and senior secondary levels. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that by December 31, 1984 the MOE would submit to the
Association, for review and approval a list of the 70 secondary schools
which are to receive science equipment under the project together with a
list of the science equipment to be provided (para. 7.01.b.). The
component would assist the HOE uvdertake the initial purchase of science
equipment and supplies. The science specialist at the NCDC would prepare
the equipment lists, assist with its distribution and train the teachers in
their proper use.
3.07      In addition to the science equipment this component would supply
supplementary equipment for the home-economics, agriculture, and handicraft
courses presently being taught at the thirteen secondary schools (Annex 1,
Table 4) to enable these schools to improve the quality of education and to
maximize the effective use of the existing facilities. It is expected that
the additional equipment will give these schools the capacity to increase
student participation in practical subjects by about 1000 students.



- 17 -
Vocational Education
3.08      St. Elizabeth Vocational School.  As indicated earlier, there is
a shortage of well trained diploma graduates in the business/commercial
field. The Mohale's Hoek area has undergone a rapid industrial
development, and a number of commercial concerns and businesses are
experiencing shortages of manpower while no facilities for commercial
training exist in the area. Consequently, the Government has requested to
add a commercial stream to the existing St. Elizabeth Home Economics School
(Vocational). The new specialization (co-educational) would accommodate
about 50 students divided into two classes. The duration of the course
would be two years following completion of junior secondary school.
Curricula and syllabi would be similar to those of the CTI Business Studies
and would include typing, office practice, jr. accounting, business
correspondence, etc. During negotiations, a satisfactory curricula was
received for the business/commercial courses; and assurance was obtained
that the MOE would create by April 1, 1986 three positions for commercial
teachers at St. Elizabeth Vocational School and fill such positions with
qualified commercial teachers (para. 7.01.c.). In order to accommodate an
additional commercial stream, an additional three classrooms, an extension
of the dining hall, a library, offices, dormitories for 40 students and two
staff houses (60 m2 each) all inclusive of furniture would be included in
the project. Equipment and teaching aids, such as typewriters,
calculators, library books, audio-visual aids, etc., would also be
provided. The project also includes nine man-months of specialists'
services to study the vocational system. The specialists would review the
curriculum, staffing and facilities utilization, survey employment
opportunities for graduates, and develop trade testing and apprenticeship
policies. This study -'s being carried out by ILO with financing under a
PPF advance (Annex 2, b.(ii)).
In-Service Training
3.09      The in-service training component would include five training
activities: (a) upgrading of about 600 unqualified primary teachers; (b)
administrative training of about 200 primary school principals who would in
turn help train unqualified primary teachers; (c) pedagogical training for
about 85 teachers in the vocational schools; (d) management training for
about 120 secondary school principals; and (e) apprenticeship training for
about 6 architectural technicians and draftsmen p.a. (total about 30).
3.10      In June 1976 an experimental two-year program started with the
objectives of reducing the number of unqualified teachers, to train
teachers who did not have the opportunity to attend a three-year course at
NTTC and to upgrade the pre-independence teachers now considered
underqualified by MOE. The main cost of the program, the payment of the
teachers' salaries and maintenance of the college were borne by the
Government. All other costs, travel expenses, food for on-campus, printing
of course materials, salaries of teaching assistants, were paid by the
Government of the Netherlands. This successful assistance is no longer



-18 -
available and funds are needed to improve and update the training programs
in response to Lhe new MOE education policies, new textbooks and syllabi
being used by the primary teachers. There is also a need to develop new
in-service training programs for primary school principals and vocational
teachers. USAID and the Britis4 Council will also be providing
simultaneously assistance to management and in-service programs at the
NTTC.
3.11      The project would cover the participants' travel and lodging
expenses. Also, the salaries and expenses of the extra teaching staff; the
support staff; the expenses for the development and printing of course
materials, teachers equipment, and vislts to education centers and schools
for the purpose of training and assessing the trainees. Expenditures of
about M 545 per trainee (M 470 to H 620 depending on travel costs) will be
partially offset by a M 60 fee paid by the participants. The proposed
project would include technical assistance consisting of 36 man-months of a
training specialist (program coordinator) to be assisted by a mosotho
counterpart (already assigned) who would coordinate the activities of the
in-service department at NTTC. Specifically, the specialist and the local
counterpart would review and assist in improving in-service training
programs for the primary, secondary and vocational school teachers and for
primary school principals (six man-months of the specialist services are
financed under the PPF advance. Annex 2,c.).
3.12      Training of Unqualified Primary Teachers.  In spite of the above
mentioned previous in-service training efforts, the number of unqualified
teachers at the primary level (Annex 1, Table 5) remains at 36% (85% of
them women). The mean age of the unqualified teachers is 34 years and the
mean number of years of teaching experience is 10 years.  This indicates
that these teachers are likely to remain in their jobs for a number of
years and thus affect the  quality of primary education for years to come.
Considering that 68Z of the unqualified teachers teach grades 1-2-3, the
most crucial years of basic education, the upgrading of unqualified
teachers is essential.
3.13      The objective of the program is to reduce the number of
unqualified primary teachers thus improving the quality of education. The
primary teachers in-service program would operate during the winter and
summer school holidays (July and January) at the NTTC. Staffing
responsibilities for the program will be divided between the regular NTTC
staff, LDTC staff, the field staff 7/ and teachers being upgraded in the
APTC program.
3.14     Training of Primary School Principals (Headteachers).  The role of
the headteacher in the primary school system is a crucial one. Yet the
percentage of headteachers who have been specifically trained for their
position is less than 2Z of the total.  The proposed program would help by:
7t NTTC staff working in the schools supervising the interns.



-19 -
(a) providing practical training in techniques of school administration;
(b) providing practical training in supervision through guidance and
assistance to at least one unqualified teacher to obtain his/her first
professional certificate (LIET, level one or two); (c) improving their
knowledge and teaching skills *i practical subjects; and (d) expanding and
updating their knowledge of education and ability to teach the core
subjects.
3.15      The program would take three years with two groups of 100
participants selected by the NTTC Admissions Committee. During the first
year, which consists of two on-campus courses and two half year periods of
field work, the head teachers would improve their own teaching skills and
study the materials which would be used to train an unqualified teacher.
During the second and third years, which would consist of three on-campus
courses and two one-year periods of field work, they would study
supervision skills and apply these at their school while guiding the
unqualified teacher.
3.16      Training of Vocational Teachers.  In the seven vocational
industrial schools and eight home economics schools, about 60% of the
teachers have craft certificates but do not have pedagogical training.
This in-service training program would improve their teaching skills and
thus the quality of instruction. The course would upgrade 45 unqualified
teachers in the vocational schools and 40 unqualified teachers in the home
economics schools. The program would be offered twice: the first time in
1985-87 and the second time in 1987-89. Each program would be for about 40
teachers.
3.17      During negotiations, the Government agreed to provide to the
Association by December 31, 1984, for its review and comment, a plan of
action for the staffing of the NTTC to carry out the in-service programs
for primary teachers, principals and vocational teachers. The plan would
include, inter alia, terms of reference for the evaluation of the
in-service training programs (para. 7.01.d.).
3.18      Ten man-months for a specialist to carry out an evaluation of the
in-service programs at the NTTC is also included in the project (para.
3.24.d.).
3.19      Training of Secondary School Principals.  The proposed project
would include an in-service training program for all secondary school
principals. The training program would be coordinated by the Institute of
Development Management which has already organized in Lesotho successful
management and curriculum courses for the principals. Two courses each
enrolling about 60 principals, of one monrth duration, would be held during
the holidays. The training program would cover the following topics:
school administration, planning, staffing, financial management and office
administration, timetabling, curriculum management, student discipline,
school rules, community relations and extra curricular activities. This
training would greatly assist the Government in improving the efficiency of
its secondary education system. The unit cost per principal would be about
M 800.



- 20 -
3.20      The apprenticeship training of architectural technicians and
draftsmen would be a continuation of a successful program established under
the Second Education Project and continued under the Third Education
Project. This program is under the direction of the architectural team
provided to the Project Implementation Unit b- the Ministry of Works
(MOW). The apprenticeship training program has been established in
cooperation with the Technician Training School located at Lesotho
Technical Institute (para. 5.03).
Institutional Support
3.21      Edacation Administration.  The Planning and Statistics Units of
the MOE, with equipment provided under the Second Education Project, has
been able to develop a sound statistical education data base. However
further assistance is required to expand the MOE's data processing
capacity. To strengthen the MOE's capacity to process the education data,
including primary and junior secondary examinations, the project would
include provision for the purchase of supplementary data processing
equipment. This equipment would also allow the MOE to process nationally
all examinations. At present the examinations are processed in part, in
RSA at considerable cost. The equipment would increase the MOE's
efficiency and reduce its recurrent costs.
3.22      Textbook and Equipment Distribution. The project would also
provide warehouse facilities for the operation of the book distribution
program. The cost of the book distribution program (assisted by the Third
Education Project) has increased because anticipated storage facilities
have not materialized. As a result, the MOE has had to rent expensive
temporary facilities. If the textbook program is to operate efficiently
and in a manner consistent with the country's available resources, a
permanent warehouse facility is required. The facility would also be used
as the center for the distribution of the science equipment (para. 3.06)
and for the educational materials (teacher aids) produced by the
Instructional Material Resource Center (IMRC). In addition, to limit the
recurrent salary costs generated by this component and to improve
coordination between the IMRC and Book Supply Unit (BSU). the latter's
staff would be made responsible for the distribution of the science
equipment. Equally to facilitate that coordination, the warehouse would be
located next to the Math/Science Center and NCDC.
Specialized Studies
3.23      The project would include provisions to carry out the following:
(a) an analysis of facilities and staff utilization at the secondary
schools to enable the MOE to prepare an effective implementation strategy
of the policies and programs adopted by the "Education Sector Survey-
(para. 2.18) (8 staff-months of specialists services) (para. 3.05); (b) a
review of curriculum, staffing and facilities utilization in vocational
schools and a survey of employment opportunities for graduates; and



- 21 -
development of trade testing and apprenticeship policies (9 staff-months of
specialists services) (para. 3.08); and (c) a review of the content of the
in-service courses and preparation of the training programs (10
staff-months of specialists services) (para. 3.18).  During project
implementation the Government would maintain with the Bank Group a dialogue
in relation to policy recommendations resulting from the secondary and
vocational studies. Discussions would also be maintained regarding the
implementation of the recommendations made by the higher education finance
study prepared by the Bank staff.
Summary of Technical Assistance
3.24      A summary of the 63 staff-months of technical assistance for
specialized studies and coordination of in-service training is as follows:
'(a) eight staff-months of specialists" services to prepare a report on the
use of facilities and staff of secondary schools (para. 3.05); (b) 36
staff-months for a training specialist (program coordinator) to coordinate
the in-service activities of the NTTC (para. 3.18); (c) nine staff-months
of specialists' services to study the vocational training system (paras.
3.08 and 3.23.b.); and (d) 10 staff-months of specialists' services
(evaluator) to review the content of in-service courses including
preparation of in-service training programs (para. 3.18). Specialists and
consultants would be selected on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank Group in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for use of
Consultants. Duties of the specialists would emphasize the training of
local counterparts. Consultants for project administration, and
professional services are described in paragraphs 5.02, 5.03 and 5.05.
Annex 1, Table 6 summarizes all technical assistance and Consultants
included in the project. Draft terms of reference for the above were
agreed upon during negotiations.
Female Participation in the Education System
3.25      Female participation in the formal education system in 1982 was
as follows: Ca) at the primary level (Grades 1-7), females represented 57%
of the total enrollment; (b) at the secondary level (Grades 8-12), 60%; and
(c) at the higher level, 19.6%. The proposed project would provide (a)
primary classrooms. where the participation of girls is estimated at about
100Z of the age group (6-12); (b) teacher in-service training with women
participation expected to be over 90%; (c) primary principal training where
women participation is expected to be about 60Z; and (d) expansion of St.
Elizabeth school (presently an all girl school) where business trainees are
expected to be about 75% girls.
Coordination with Donor Agencies
3.26      The Bank Group discussed the content of the proposed project with
representatives of the Federal Republic of Germany, British Council, USAID,
EEC, CIDA, Irish Technical Assistance, UNDP, and Wo-ld UnivErsity Services



- 22 -
of Canada (WUSC). This was done to avoid duplication of efforts and
maximize the benefits to the education sector. The Federal Republic of
Germany was reviewing with the HOE the coordination of all the vocational
and technical programs. It was also discussing administrative and teacher
assistance for the vocational and technical schools (particularly for the
Lesotho Technical Institute). The British Council are prepared to supply
secondary teachers and trainers for the primary principal in-service
training program included in the proposed project. They will also continue
to fund the construction of primary classrooms using the designs prepared
by the PIU for the implementation of the Third Education Project. USAID is
preparing a project proposal which would assist with the management,
staffing (with technical assistance) and training of teachers for the
NTTC. The EEC is funding the construction of about 40 primary classrooms.
CIDA will continue to supply, through the World University Services of
Canada (WUSC), secondary teachers and will assist with the construction and
equipping of secondary and university facilities. The Irish Technical
Assistance will continue to supply architects for the Ministry of Works
(including the continuation of two for the PIU) and will expand their
assistance for the training of practical teachers. The UNDP will continue
for one more year to support an education planner. WUSC will continue to
supply secondary and technical teachers and would, upon Government request,
supply low cost technical assistance for the civil works component.
IV . PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$13.0 million
equivalent, including customs duties and taxes estimated at US$0.4 million
equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign-exchange components by
category and by project item given in Annex 1, Tables 7 to 10 are
summarized as follows;



- 23 -
z
Maloti (Million)      US$ (Million)    Base
Item              Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Cost
1. Civil Works, Furniture
and Equipment
a) Primary Education     1.89   2.96   4.85   1.53  2.39    3.92   42
b) Secondary Education   0.62   1.45   2.07   0.51  1.16    1.67   17
c) Vocational Education  0.17   0.30   0.47   G.13  0.25    0.38    4
Sub-total (1)         2.68    7-  7.39   217 3.80    5.7   63
2. In-service Training.      0.29   1.15   1.44   0.23  0.94    1.17   12
3. Institutional Support     0.10   0.22   0.32   0.08  0.18    0.26    3
4. Specialized Studies       0.04   0.18   0.22   0.03  0.14    0.17    2
5. Professional Services     0.83   0.55   1.38   0.67  0.44    1.11   12
6. Project Administration    0.62   0.30   0.92   0.50  0.25    0.75    8
Base Cost (1 to 6)        4.56   7.11  11.67   3.68  5.75    9.43  100
(July 1984)
7. Contingencies
a) Physical (6Z)         0.34   0.49   0.83   0.28  0.39    0.67
b) Price Increase (27Z)  1.95   1.63   3.58   1.58  1.32    2.90
Sub-total (7)         2.29   2.12   4.41   1.86  1.71    3.57
Total Project Cost        6.85   9.23  16.08   5.54  7.46   13.00 8/
(1 to 7)
of which Taxes           (0.48)   -    (0.48) (0.39)  -      (0.39)
4.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
were derived by Bank Group staff from a review of data provided by: (a) the
MOW, which is widely active in the building sector; (b) the architectural
team working in the Project Implementation Unit, based on its experience in
implementing the previous IDA Education projects and on recently awarded
contracts; and (c) the private sector, including, inter alia, locally based
firms of architects and quantity surveyors and contractors. As in the
Third Education project, the designs of the accomodations On which the cost
estimates are based are austere and functional, and the furniture and
equipment would be of a type appropriate to the country for achieving the
proposed project's educational objectives. The emphasis on use of building
8/ Includes PPF funds of US$0.44 million.



- 24 -
materials locally produced or found In situ, successfully started with the
Third Education Project, would be continued and expanded, and it is
expected that the participation of medium size local contracting firms
would increase. This would be beneficial to the country.
4.03      The base cost of construction for the primary-school classrooms
varies widely according to the location of the schools (about 100 sites)
which are widely dispersed all over the country. The assistance in the
primary school subsector, started in the Third Education Project, would be
continued, giving preference to schools In remote mountain areas. The
average base cost of construction has been estimated at US$174/m2
equivalent (July 1984 prices). The classroons are simple in design and
would use local building techniques. The designs and method of
'construction, inter alia, have been successfully applied in the Third
Education Project, resulting in improved efficiency in implementation and
in a reduction of unit costs. Although a direct comparison of cost Is
difficult, since all classrooms would be extensions to existing schools,
the cost per student place of US$212 equivalent (July 1984 prices) compares
favorably with US$234 equivalent in Botswana (1981), US$235 in Malawi
(1979) and US$256 in Swaziland (1979).
4.04      Professional services to be obtained abroad consist of the
services of an architectural consultant and a junior architect. Their cost
includes salaries, housing, travel and other allowances. Professional
services to be obtained locally consist of construction supervisors
services. Their cost includes salaries, internal travel, overhead, fees
and allowances. Consulting firms, established in Lesotho and who have been
employed with satisfactory results in the previous three Education Projects
are expected to be retained.
4.05      Custom Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes, in
line with Government practice regarding imports for educational purposes.
Nevertheless some of the material, to be used in the construction,
furnishing and equipping of the proposed institutions would be acquired in
the local market and would be subject to custom duties and taxes as also
would be professional and other services. Of the estimated total project
cost, about US$0.39 million equivalent would represent custom duties and
taxes.
4.06      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 1OZ has been
added to the base cost of civil works and professional services and 5% to
the base cost of furniture, equipment and vehicles. Price increases, from
the base cost date (July 1984), have been applied in accordance with the
implementation schedule (Annex 1, Table 11) at the following annual rates:



- 25 -
Calendar Year        1984    1985    1986-88    1989
Foreign        .,3.5Z    8.0Z      9.0       7.5Z
Local          13.5%   13.0Z      12.0X      12.0X
These annual rates have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and have been
found satisfactory.
4.07      Foreign-Exchange Component.  The foreign-exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 60X; (b) furniture, 70X;
(c) equipment, vehicles, in-service training, technical assistance and
evaluation 80Z; (d) specialized studies, 60%; (e) professional services,
40%; and (f) project administration, 30%. Including contingenciese, the
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.5 million equivalent or
about 59Z of the total project cost net of taxes.
Financial Plan
4.08      The total project cost of US$13.0 million equivalent would be
financed with an IDA Credit of US$10.0 million equivalent, representing 79Z
of the total project cost net of taxes. The Credit would cover all foreign
exchange costs (US$7.5 million) and 49Z of the local-currency costs
excluding custom duties and taxes, as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Government     IDA    Total
1.  Civil Works                                 0.95         3.82    4.77
2.  Furniture                                   0.07          0.43    0.50
3.  Equipment and Vehicles                      0.07          1.14    1.21
4.  In-service Training                         0.09          0.51    0.60
5.  Technical Assistance                        0.06          0.47    0.53
6.  Professional Services                       0.55          0.56    1.11
7.  Project Administration                      0.50         0.21    0.71
8.  Unallocated (Contingencies)                 0.71          2.86    3.57
Total                                       3.00        10.00   13.00
of which Taxes                                 (0.39)          -     (0.39)
4.09      The effect of this project on the capital budget of the
Government has been estimated on the assumptions that overall capital
expenditures of the Government would remain unchanged in real terms up
to 1985/86 and would grow at a modest 3% per year thereafter, and that
the share of M0E expenditures in the total capital budget would be about



- 26 -
7%, the average share of the last three years. Under these assumptions,
the maximum capital budget allocation needed for the project in any single-
year (FY1988/89) would account for less than 4% af the overall capital
budget. The contribution to this expenditure from Government savings will
be only about 20%, which is lower than the average contribution of the last
three years to the overall capital budget (over 27%). Incremental
recurrent expenditures to be generated by the project when in full
operation, are based on the following assumptions: (a) recurrent
expenditures of the MOE would remain unchanged in real terms up to 1985/86
and grow at 3% per year thereafter; and (b) teachers' salaries scale would
remain constant in real terms. The incremental recurrent costs of the
proposed project when in full operation would originate almost exclusively
in the upward movement within the teacher salary scale of those teachers
who would be upgraded under the project. It is estimated that by 1990/91,
when the upgrading program is expected to be completed, 1.7% of the HOE
recurrent expenditure would be attributed to the in-service training
program included in the project (12% of projected budgetary increase of the
MOE between 1982/83 and 1990/91).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS, AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01      Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented over a
period of about five years, including six months for completion of
payment and submission of withdrawal applications (Annex 1, Table 8). The
project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1989, with a Closing Date
of September 30, 1989. The implementation schedule is based on, inter
alia, experience derived from three previous IDA Education Projects (para.
5.14).
5.02      Administration.  An independent Project Authority, responsible
for overall project control and representing the Ministries of
Education, Finance, Planning. Agriculture, Health, Works, and Community and
Rural Development, was established for the First IDA financed Education
Project in Lesotho by Government Notice No. 109 of 1974 and its Legal
Notice No. 40 of September 5, 1975. The Project Implementation Unit,
called in Lesotho the "Training for Self Reliance Project" (TSRP),
established by the Project Authority for the First Education Project and
continued for the Second and Third Education Projects 9/, would also
perform all administrative functions for this proposed project. The TSRP
9/   Membership of Project Authority includes Ministries of Education,
Finance, Planning, Works and as appropriate Ministry of Commerce and
Industry.



- 27 -
is functioning well but some staff skills still require strengthening. The
Unit is staffed with Basotho director, accountant, procurement officer, and
supporting staff, all on a full-tdie basis. To assist TSRP reorganize its
accounting and procurement procedures and records more in line with those
of the Ministry of Finance and to strengthen the administration capacity of
the TSRP, the services of a procurement officer (12 man-months) and an
accountant (24 staff-months) have been included in the project. These
consultants would assist and train the local staff in procurement and
accounting procedures. About 40% of the operational expenses (excluding
local salaries) for project administration would be financed under the
project on a declining basis. This is consistent with Bank Group policy to
gradually phasing out financial assistance to administrative units such as
the TSRP (para. 5.13).
5.03      Professional Services.  For architectural/engineering services
for the implementation of the Second Education Project, the MDW established
an architectural team responsible for the design and supervision of
construction of all education project facilities. This team was also
assigned the responsibility to implement the physical facilities of the
on-going Third Education project. The team is housed, for better
communication, in the TSRP's office facilities.  Adequate office
accommodations are available. At its peak, the architectural team included
two architects, two architectural technicians, and one construction
supervisor, and local counterparts. To facilitate the coordination of
administrative responsibilities between the TSRP and the MOW, one of the
architects had been specifically assigned a leading responsibility.
Currently the architectural team consists of two architects, provided
through the MOW by a bilateral donor agency, and a junior architect hired
locally. The team has established an apprenticeship program (para. 3.20)
and is helping with the training of about 6 local draftsmen and
architectural technicians per year. In consideration of the expanded
program with physical facilities dispersed in remote areas of the country,
funds are included in the proposed project for the full-time services of an
architect (60 man-months) and an architectural technician/construction
supervisor (60 man-months). In addition the Government of Ireland is
expected to continue to provide through the MOW about 10 man-years of
architectural service. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that
the MOW would continue to provide to the Project Inplementation Unit on a
full time basis the professional and technical personnel for the TSRP
project consisting of two qualified architects and a locally hired junior
architect (para. 7.0.e.).
5.04      The architectural team has developed for the primary school
program satisfactory architectural designs using appropriate construction
standards and methods. The proposed project would replicate the same
standards and methods on a larger and more dispersed program. It Is
anticipated that most of the work can be carried out by local contractors
after competitive bidding locally advertised. -The team would also develop
similar construction standards applicable to the secondary school



- 28 -
facilities included in the proposed project. Existing maintenance policies
and procedures have already been the subject of consultation between the
Bank Group and the Government in the course of project supervision and the
architectural team would continue to review these policies and report
semi-annually on its findings and make further recommendations.
5.05      Because of the difficulties by the MOW in providing specific
specialized qualified professionals, funds are included in the proposed
project for short term consulting services of a civil engineer (6
man-months), a quantity surveyor (12 man-months) and a land surveyor (6
man-months), for a total of 24 man-months.
5.06      Consultants would be hired o*n terms and conditions satisfactory
.to the Bank Group and in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for use of
Consultants. It is expected that the Government would select consultants
who have undertaken similar assignments for, and have a good working
relationship with the Borrower, and the terms would be on a negotiated
basis.
5.07      Site Selection.  The primary-school classrooms included in the
proposed project are all expansions to existing schools on sites for which
the land has previously been allocated to the local communities and
designated as school land (identified by the school-mapping exercise
completed in September 1980). A satisfactory list of about 100 sites has
been provided to the Bank Group. Locations of secondary schools are shown
in Annex 1, Table 4. No problem is envisaged in the provision of adequate
land for the expansion of secondary schools and the St. Elizabeth
vocational school.
M;aintenance of Facilities
5.08      The Government would continue to have the proprietors of the
schools (missions) collect maintenance fees but would establish a system of
control of the usage of such funds to ensure proper and timely
maintenance. To ensure funds collected are used ior purposes intended, as
a condition of Credit effectiveness the Government would submit to IDA for
review and comment, a satisfactory maintenance control plan including
adequate control procedures (para. 7.02.a.).



- 29 -
Procurement
5.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
(US$ Thousand) 10/
Category                  ICB       LCB      Other      NA       Total
I. Civil Works                  -        5,215    1,538       -        6,753
-      (4,000)  (1,300)       -      (5,300)
2. Furniture                    181        486      -          -         667
(181)     (419)     -          -        (600)
3. Equipment & Vehicles       1,170        477      -                  1,647
(1,170)     (430)     -                 (1,600)
4. In-service Training                     -        -          750       750
=         _        -         (700)     (700)
5. Technical Assistance         -          -        -          683       683
-         -         -        (600)     (600)
6. Professional Services        -          -        -       1,571      1,571
_         -        -         (900)     (900)
7. Project Administration       -           98      340       494        932
(40)    (140)     (120)      (300)
Total                      1,351     6,276    1,878      3,498    13,003
(1,351)   (4,889)  (1,440)   (2,320)  (10,000)
5.10      Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement, except as follows: (a) civil
works contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; and
(b) furniture, equipment and vehicles contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each.
Item (a) Due to their small size and remote and scattered
locations, construction of the primary-school facilities would be
awarded by: (i) competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group
(estimated at US$5.2 million including contingencies); or (ii)
should (i) above result in non-responsive tenders, on the basis
10/ Figures in parenthesis indicate IDA share.
- _



- 30 -
of negotiations with the individual mission schools which
previously have carried out their own construction programs
(estimated at US$1.3 million including contingencies). It is
expected that a few schools would qeither be able to attract
interested local bidders nor to carry out their own construction
program, in such case the TSRP would arrange to carry out the
work through use of departmental forces such as the
Labor-Intensive Construction Brigades (force-account methods,
estimated at US$0.4 million including contingencies).
Item (b) Contracts for items under (b) would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group (estimated
at aggregated value of US$0.5 million including contingencies).
5.11      Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles indicating proposed grouping and
estimates of cost would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to
permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Bank
Group prior tc award would be required only for contracts for civil works
costing more than US$200,000 equivalent each and for contracts for
furniture, equipment and vehicles each costing more than US$50,000
equivalent each.
5.12      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used: (a)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
preference of 15%, or the existing applicable rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers;
and (b) qualified domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7.5% over the prices of competing foreign
contractors.
Disbursements
5.13      Disbursements (Annex 1, Table 10) would be on the basis of:
(a) 100Z of foreign expenditures, and 80% of local expenditures
for furniture, equipment, construction materials and
vehicles;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for training, and special studies;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 40% of local expenditures
for technical assistance and professional services;
(d) 80% of total expenditures for civil works under contract and
80% of local expenditures for civil works under force
account;



- 31 -
(e) 40% of local expenditures for project administration/
operating cost excluding salaries on a declining basia from
60% to 20%.
5.14      All disbursements would be fully documented except for
disbursements carried out under Item (d) (1) above, force account civil
works and Item (e) above, project administration/operating cost excluding
salaries, which would be made against statements of expenditure (SOE),
documentation for which would not be submitted for review but would be
retained by the Borrower at one central location and would be the subject
of an annual audit by auditors acceptable to IDA. In addition, the
documentation should be readily available for review by IDA representatives
during the course of project supervision. To facilitate efficient
disbursements implementation of the project, the Borrower would open a
special account (para. 5.16) to finance all contracts for goods and
services valued below $10,000 equivalent and the Borrower shall not submit
applications for reimbursement valued below S20,000 equivalent. Based upon
experience in previous IDA education projects the TSRP/PIU has satisfactory
Institutional capacity to use SOE and manage the special account. The
disbursement schedule is based on a 5 year period compared with a country
disbursement profile of about eight years. The 5 year period is deemed
realistic based on (i) the school construction program is a replication of
an ongoing program; (ii) the use of the PPF to advance preparation; and
(iii) experience in the three previous education projects. The First
Project was completed in four and one-half years, the Sccond in five years
and the Third Education which is programmed for five years, is expected to
be completed ahead of schedule.
5.15      Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance.  To further advance
project preparation, a PPF advance (No. P624-LSO) in the amount of
US$440,000 was approved on September 30, 1983. The advance is financing
the cost of 35 man-months of technical assistance and consultants'
services, including salaries, travel and subsistence expenses, and support
staff and services for carrying out the project preparation activities as
outlined in Annex 2.
5.16      Special Account.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be made available when needed, a Special Account (in Haloti),
operated by the PIU (TSRP), would be established in the National Bank of
Lesotho with an initial deposit of US$0.4 million equivalent sufficient to
cover about three months expenditures plus twenty percent. The initial
deposit would be disbursed upon receipt and approval of a Procedure III,
application for direct payment. The account would be replenished on
receipt and approval of applications for reimbursement (Procedure I)
covering payments made from the account for eligible civil works, goods and
services required for the project. The opening of a bank account into
which the initial amount of the special account would be deposited would be
a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 7.02.b).
_ .9



- 32 -
5.17      Project Advance Account.  In order to ensure that the
Government s counterpart funding also would be available when needed, the
Government would establish a separate Project Advance Account into which it
would deposit, at the begining of each quarter, its share of project
costs. Establishing the Projeat Advance Account and depositing the initial
amount of Maloti 95,000 would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(para. 7.02.c). In any case this account should be replenished so that it
would not at any time be lower than on M 35,000. A Special Account and a
Project Advance Account have been satisfactorily established under the
Third Education Project.
5.18      Reporting and Evaluation.  Semi-annual reports on implementation
progress would be submitted by TSRP following a mutually agreed-upon format
used for the Third Education Project. A project evaluation (Completlon)
report would be provided by TSRP not later than six months after the
proposed Credit Closing Date. The TSRP, with assistance from all
Ministries involved, would prepare the report evaluating the execution,
initial operations, costs, and benefits of the proposed project, and the
performance of the Government and the Bank Group, including lessons learned
during project implementation.
Auditing
5.19      Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed
under this project, in particular for those expenditures reimbursed under
statement of expenditure. Project accounts would be maintained by the
project accountant and auditing would be performed by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group, applying satisfactory auditing procedures.
Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months
following the end of each of the Borrower's fiscal years. The Government
has satisfactorily complied with the audit covenant under the ongoing Third
Education Project.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would provide assistance to the Government
in the implementation of its educational policy to improve the quality and
efficiency of its primary and secondary education subsectors. It would
improve equity in educational opportunities by providing classroom
facilities in the remote rural areas where the need is greatest. The local
construction industry which is highly labor-intensive, is expected to
benefit from the project since it would generate considerable employment in
the building construction sector. The furniture industry is also expected
to participate in the manufacturing and supply of furniture.



- 33 -
6.02      The in-service training of about 600 unqualified teachers (of
whom 350 are from the remote mountain schools), would have a positive
impact on the quality of the education, particularly in the rural areas.
It is expected that about 45 000 rural children would benefit from improved
instruction. The upgrading of vocational teachers without pedagogical
training is also expected to improve the quality of education in 13
vocational schools with an annual enrollment of about 1,000 students. The
training of about 200 primary principals would improve the management and
efficiency of the primary schools. The principals in turn would also train
teachers which would assist in the improvement of the quality of primary
education.
6.03      The additional secondary school facilities would benefit about
4,000 students per annum. About 22,000 pupils would benefit from the
supply of science equipment which would allow the teachers to carry out the
required demonstration and experiments in the science courses. The
supplementary equipment and tools would enable about 6,000 students to
benefit from an improved diversified education.
6.04      The vocational training components would benefit youths and
unskilled adults by preparing them directly for productive employment. In
particular, the St. Elizabeth Vocational School would assist in meeting
manpower needs in a rural district which is a priority development area of
the Government.
Risks
6.05      No major risks are foreseen.  It is possible however that the
lack of administrative capability at the MOE to follow-up the
implementation of recently approved policies for the efficient allocation
of facilities and equipment and staff to secondary schools, may not attain
expected standards during the project implementation. This will be
monitored closely by Bank Group staff.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached or assurances obtained
on the following:
(a) based on the study presented at negotiations on the use of
existing secondary school facilities and staff, including
proposed science equipment lists. it was agreed that by
December 31, 1984, the Government would submit to the
Association for its review and couments, a plan of action
based on the results of the study for more efficient use of
the secondary school facilities (para. 3.05);
_ _



- 34 -
(b)  that by December 31, 1984 the Goverment would submit to the
Association a list of the secondary schools, including
.equipment lists, which are to receive science equipment
under the project (para. 3.06);
(c)  (i) satisfactory curricula were recei-   for the business/
commercial courses; and (ii) assurance  obtained that by
April 1, 1986 the MOE would create three positions for
commercial teachers at St. Elizabeth Vocational School and
would fill such positions with qualified commercial teachers
(para. 3.08);
(d) a plan for the staffing of the NTTC to carry out the
in-service programs, including, inter alia, terms of
reference for the evaluation of the in-service programs
would be submitted by December 31, 1984 for the
Association's review and comment (para. 3.17); and
(e)  the MOW would continue to provide the TSRP on a full time
basis, two qualified architects and a junior architect
(para. 5.03);
7.02      As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government would:
(a)  provide a satisfactory school maintenance plan to the Bank
Group (para. 5.08).
(b) open a Special Account into which the initial amount of the
Credit funds would be deposited (para. 5.16); and
(c) establish and fund a Project Advance Account (para. 5.17).
7.03      Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for and IDA Credit of SDR 9.7 million (USS10.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to tne Government of Lesotho.



- 35-ANNUl 
COMAW3l EUDGAtC  INDCAIORS                                                      Table   1
R~~~~~~~ 19K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page   1  of   2
nftuenOrTmm    ZEDUCATION                        COwLETIONC            R    wAU
ONt RooCaTIc.  REO1VRIEN1r    ADULT              RATE FOR              CorT COST  PROCREASIO
CA  PER              AS PIERCEST    EEI'ENUITUUS  LIIERACI PRIMARY PRIMART    pI-tiam   P3196?    mtATS FROM   SECONDARY sElomNICHESt
SASE  POP.  CAPIt.A  PERCENTr cKP TOTAL CrENTRAL AWIQTE7IV in;  ATS        ENROLL. 500)04       SnOEtS)vl EDOCATIION  PRIMARY T10  ENROLL.    TUOSENSILL.
YEAR HILLS. (0533   DEOTED TO  COVERNMENr    PAli  SEC  NI    (13    RATIO   CYCLE!             PER       AS PERCENVT SEONDARWY   RArtIO      PE         RtATIO
(19793 (3979)   EDUATIgn  EXPENIIUSE              (2)        (39763   (23         (Z)      TEACOER  CS/CAPITA        CZ)        (5)     TPC(2 (3(4()(1 (3 (A(3 (3)  I  33 (3) I)
omwmIPt COCNTRIES
AUSTRALIA          nO                                                                           RoleA*?  .1  46  - - -  - 33  342  21  -      99          73        I        20.90
CANADA       NI    z1.7u~~~'f  R.06:                          Ina'! 34"- 23'?             IGO 06    100)       21         19.9"9       In"          sz'       la      22.60.
CiElMlA  P.R.       79     m.   zz.zoo       6.e          e.q.       -     -     -      "b                Rol3e       -         --            ton'        944        -
OETEVI.OIAS        79    24.0  to 490        7.9          5.1       210   15   23      gob?      96        95         in        is.]          99          AZ        II       1.40
HENv ZEALAND       Rn      22zb  6.OR15    15V           11.6        37   31   2R      flu      300       300         26        23.4         in"0         A23z2NI
9901W               79     .3  12.250        9.0         3R.2        31   10   10      996       9ee      [no         Ina       19.9         tl(k.         '.'      3Roar      .120
EASTEP AFRICA
PITSIIANA          sor     0.Su'    720u'    6.3'        19.3        AN   2R   Is      35h       q4        74         '32       22.0          3'"-        20        In        1.50
IUREWI             '3      ..2      239)    2AM,         29.42       43  2Z1   27      25        2s'       35         37       210.2          32            1'      i,        u.O'2
commcw        It      q4b*   260        46.'"       2'.'        l 42 ZA   I4      -                   Ss 6       A5        36.0          SR          21'       30        j*40
011101ff           RI      0.3      440      5.4         *0.8        Go040    ...    30          32         -          l        -             an           a        sq        n. po
ETNInPIA           Ri    12.Rb    3406    2.9'            57         6    25   20      53        4          0         63        19.1          933                    44       04
KK%TA              7      Is153     190      5.9"        k4.0u'      71   35   34      45        92        74         40        15.4          II           39       26        iA4d
LP-S0THn    42              :lb4   &I15k    5            14.9        15.  32   26      it1      113A       Al         AN         9j,          44~         z         23        .3n2
EADAGASCAX         77       .5      330     '.0"       2-4.         3 3   20   19      so        946ff     33         sgb        13.0         38          34        211       1.1426'-
tALl        NI 41           .1'1   flfb    3-5           II.'        3N   14   25      356       62        21         AS         5.9          324                   21        42.40
SAuRITrtis         ND      Os0'  IONOu'    s.0          12.3        39  442    7       no        A?        i          226       37.3          79          &93       21        42.442
RWANDA             NO      5.0t    .043b    3.2          213.1       62   17   13      23tl      17         2         ini       34.n           A.          4'       3         42.40
S"CEYOEL.S         79      fl.    1.y70      5.9         22 .4       34' I3    0'i  ~--                    -          25        --             ---                   ..      -
5OIALIAL           NI       .5       R4      1.5         105         s     j46b  46     50        26       5          .qb        qnh          626         1.6       Z.       tmA0
SUDAN              anO    1s.21,    Mb    1.0           .-           64,  39   ..       2        SIRK      AN         34         1.4          46          16        is        .
SIMZI LAND         RNf     0.6      3642     7.9         IP.R        '1   34   15,    *5b        79        30         34        11.2                      37 jy     In        Z.5.
TATNZR.9A          Al.   2R.S       240      5.9         17.7        A?   10   16.    7sQ6       9b        07         41l       11.0          396          2        20'       0.20
UGANDA             RD    32.4'h   job    -               16.1-       23b  37h  20b    6*         54'       63         34        --             I           5        23        n.4n
7AIRE              ZR    27.5       zing    44r         22.0         49   26   21      is        R63,      44         42'       --             1          t1'       27        I.I0b,
ZAMBIAI            A NO       b    5646    6.r           11.1        .4N   21   22      &4b      93        anO         A        12.9           Is         IA0       22        1.io
ZINRARNE           Al      7..7b    ?rob    5.1          39.1        62   IZ    4      466       on        Ss         19        20.1)         AS          3L        21        5.14
HOITIERN AFRICA
RESIN              79      l.au'    IZjb    113          35.0        41   21    1    jib'        62        20         46        *6.0          342         RI        43        3.242.
CANRRIR2N           N      N..2    590       2.9w        1-,.fl      33'   l   20',    --i       76?       4$d        54        11.9'         2~'          I4;      24        1.0
C-A.R.             79      2.2      2q42     l.A'7       20.6'!      -    -      .      - ---              -           *E-.-                                                  04V
emut               71      4.4      1210     2.?'        2.                 ~ - -      15        25'       -          7                       -.3                   21        fl.20'
cam   ~       70      1.5      6710     90"         2.                            --                             54"y                     30          -        '.        4.ew
CANNM               77     424     .zo       3;           q!         -- -.                         .       -- R6w" .-.---                                           flh.      1R41w
GAMBlI A            77     '2.4.     2       1.9"         456        46 2' 6    *2'              Abv       Sri,       27"',    AA.3'          60            twh    17
GHANA              74    13.1       4th)     L427y       I.:S                                     jib- -  ~ w  -       2,by     --             ---          6zb y    Z-
GUIN%EA             749    s.]      290'   46"0          ---         £5'  zN'  ZR'   242         36        36         3A        20.42'P       RI           16       2q        7:11).
Z 03? hAT          I3      Nj.2   2.070b   142.0        65.42        31   46   31   3426         60        96         41        26.42         67          31S"'    246        3.00a
LIBERIA            all     3-9      520      '.6         19.6        Al3  23   26    30          52        32         15        242.0(        746         22        20        2.90
sAI                RI      7%lb    19t       42          21.7'       IN   23   33 I    3I        20        60         44         5.7          66            1       II        0.4nl"
SAZRETA.MIA        79       _6R    31206    5.5          34.9        3.   43   25%   376         12        60         64         2.0          Jo0                   25        0.37
SICER:             79      5.2      100      4.1"        1.A         52'  43 -J`       A  7IIit                       '1'       lJR. ?'       40           2        246       a.n
'IGERIA       ~~~~77    R2.6   930      4.17         9.6        --  --  -          -          -       -.          -- --                               Roar     23        42*I7'
SENEGAL             77     5.5      450      3.0        23.0        r66   36  210    10          346b7      -          0b!       -            2           10        21        2.nb
SIERRA LErOE       73      3.4      250     6.Ob'       -1.06        -  -   -         El'5       17'        D-        3         23.06         RA          Is.       22        42.60b.
TIw                76      2.'6    AD0      t.5"'        2%-.9       1*'  2RI  21'   jIN         74        60         3441*     IR.0          12          12bey    4qI        I.60h,
UPPERt VOLTA       73      1.6      1S0      1.04'       39.3'!f     31   16   32      -         15u"      23         57317    132.57         t9           l6.'    25         0.o027
LATIN A0MERICA 6A40 -.? IARIrOlEA5
ARGENTINA           7R    27.3   2.21n       2.7         10.9        63' 11'  in,   9lb          As        ii         1         --            97          33         a       21.00
BAKIAMAS           79      0.2   2170       5.7         39.1         14   16   33   *96          9         97         24        ---           97          75        to      -
aRABSB90            N      02 2A1              .          21          3    n'A   '   99'        ROOF       99'        27'       19.9'         99.         -,,I      z9       -
ROLIVIA            An      3.4      550      4.1'        30.5'        -        -   -  h3         747       -          2423      -.            --          is-       --       t2.0601
RRtAZXL            79   126.1   1 7742      l.            .2        53   -    16    7A           13k?      -          29V        4            61'         le'       L-a      12.62"
UtILE        '6    ~~~~~142.9   I:94  I.Z"  n.                ---        --   -           ajq"y      -- ...               -            --           S,6"    r'u"      j3.9n0
01151a             Ao   2'l. ?b  I1S106    11.3         215.0        35   2`0  20    "Ib         1A        36         32         6.6          --          67        242      :n2.02
COSTA OKrA         Rn    2*3b  1.,ah'   0.6              31.3       642   27   33   500          93        77         31         1.5          77          40        27       14.n20
0706                ?6     9.5      -       A.0          12.0       .---         -    IA        112bR-    oA          lab.,    --             9o           "h.      33       10.026b
DouoIZCAg  RtEP.    40     5.3   1.03n       2.'         33.0        39   21   22    606         90        33         59         3.2          54          30        33       36b.04
ECOADDit0             o.?b.310          4.O7 IA.?                  131   16    53          10          -         1         12.6          Rh          47        IA       29400
EL SALVAIV2        77      4.6.     460      J A         23.uu'y     46    N   27    62          st"       32         39        -.-I                      2~6b!    276y?      79flb
GUIATEMAQLA         7e     6.0   3.010       3.7"        32.6 fib               -                6qbxy    --          356b,                   65          156bR     I 0iw     3.50
GUYANA             76      0.       6 030    9:3by      13).N".      -------                     qb        --         326v                    --          3,6bxy    -         3.Ofl42
MAIT!              no      Io'`   230        3.4"           Say7    45    9    6    236           n4       20         63        19.0          62'          &'       27        n.RO
NOODORA            70      3.6      520      3:56        26.1u       62'  W'  19'  442                     Irv 3'     43612by'N                            1        1          .0
JANA ICA            W0     2.1   3.110      6.3          13.7        37   43   20    90          98        93         411        2.3          95          ml        22        0.0
AVI10              anO    63.5                .          17.0'       46   36   IS    92          99        s          44         9.5 S         6          36        1        10.30
NICARACUA          79      Z:e'  :e'I       i.ob.       34.06         .--    --       9 b        R eu      234        3I        --            -           26u        06     -
PANAMA   ~~~~~7       1       .u 1510   33D        2I.Au        42'  21'  13    A6          9u        -          2,7       11.6                      s 3b      27"      20.406?
PARAGUAY           79      3.0   2.160       3.4"        36.2       62   17   20    06           93        32         25         3.It         76          22        32        0.70
prim               no    £4.6  I1 00         3.6         14.)        53   13   19    an          Al        16         39         9.8                      3         22       f4.407
TARN9IDAD & TOB.   71      3.1   3.910i      4.06!        SR.Ru      4R8  32   20    95          90        93         342       30.3?         49          62        24       --
URUGUAY            70      2.9   2.300       2.5          9  b        -_.   - .-    94          losb.      ---.h                 -              .         666RV     -        13.NO"-
VENEZUELA          79    34.4.   3.-40       1.1?       P39b 9         -6   . --      "2        306b.      -          28        --            -           IN6"      37       23.10?



- 36-
ANNEX I.
Table I
Page 2 of 2
CENTRAL
COVER-cur
-    EXPEIIDIUR    EDUCTION                       .COMPLE7`101K18W
nod EDUCATION  3EOIfuEN       AIRILY            RATE Pil              ffr? cot?  PWICRES ION
WY ARDA *30   M V ~ tm rn                    As3      Alfr r                EFA'     "l zrR W    AR'  t   PRIMARY Poim UTT      TPN rY      srAmmy  srowr ptn  we
B&CE'PO. CAIrAPEn-gr  m     22.0A      32   37"  150    643b        9t       97         22       CITZW   RIWA Ti2.t  97    6,Sr   .9        E.In
-Aft    -9                      Krul. A19.0T 6   T        -tTI    IC3 ~                          1301
CAItLAJ-----M      T    W a         90b    3.jO        lO3'        $1   37   '       269b      s   6      3        53         6.6          -2          Is       23        2.'
INDiA              71   659.63   I1        z.9-         e.0 '      3-    -   3-      96        79         S        43        -9.           -0                   IN -
NEALAt             A2    ItO       15b    IS           --                  -          4        7                    3I  3                                        2      ~    f.A
P'.ET%TAN     79    79.7      270      2."          j7.       3,   26,  27,    Gob        56'      5fl        48        6Z.5          ay          20       I         640
PAPUAWN.C. 83  77        1.11    -z         3.4          3.7       47   39   15      12             60  73.         31    -  -0            42           83      272b      1.07
PHLEIPPNE          79    IA.3b  3.770      Z    1.8 0  323         644         ? 3    5i  S    837      45          31        7.0?         355         2Y       26        s.;nO
SFICYPN            no      3.nb    Sf426    3.18        4.S        319  30   26'    a          98        R2         314       93.          9.          43        :9      as.nna
SOLOd              76L    own3    4360     42Pe                    3704 4    26   21  -         0b       so        26b        6.2          -5          ish        -       7f
lIDIA              79    12.6,  2.Irl    4.37           A*95-       -    -    -               10        -          28        -             -          458       29'       9.3na
n mIaa             em    1.0b  4.40J    1.35           i.           -    -     -     9         '3       949                  -             98          NI       14       33.0
LEBMANN           79      .3       - 7    -4'          .18.69"'       - - -          -1       964'                19         -.            -         46         -
ALGRIAC            M9    19.5    .740      I.Jw         17.5'      36a  a6   20o    2w         1T~   35            39        19.07         40          25'      2!n
rcyrr         R!?   *3.b  5*,0h    2.3A"          t2.7        1-  -S- 2         3fl6 4     1'       61         254       -.1          8~          &i        394      $.
PIEWC3             71     qg6  2.061    3.61           22.2b       50   23   I1      7         97b       20        jq        12.8          Nt          7&s'      I7b     87.3f
twRI"              7'.   22.1   2.         3.9by       64.2'       -    -    -       93       £02Kzi                         -                        8 4bg     ,26      gf4flb
SPUNc              7q    IZ6  2~0 .920     4.0         36.9        -    -    -       -                   -          9b        -.                        Th 
SYRIA       78     N.e~~~~ 3*7        *P         1.          9 2        4      j       [obr      '.0         15       -              -           ghu      236    9*2.6
TWIISIA    79 ~~~~~~.&    120i     7.3"        39.0 4`3 -             8      626       30       R9                    - n 128m0lr                       30        4.nn
LUKY                *     4b L0b            jg         262          -                 36N3               9'W       2'.         .9          5*          1         Y .       ...7f
1130CC 4.3         A9      9.5    740      5    ~      12.0        w&    7    1      24        56y       is        397       697.         85           35       20        340
106-1              A?..  .  20     &.obS 20  7.           .7-       &t  34      '   51         63.       34         25       u.n           16          17       20         .5
PRTWbrotounrteet            b            846             6        706967 i          76        98       60         94        62.1          12         93.       84       85
Isige:                     (1.4-          3~~~~~~~~~~~I.7-  (1-   7-  (-  8-  (1b-   (1-          (37-      (1-            (-     -    h        CR-     (0.01-
SuaRtIle: Upper:1                         5.61          201.8     52 55 23          80        9        79          3        2              5                   25b.
edan                       4.0           35.5     43   27   165    52         83         0         31       1             68          2$h      23b       12.1
Lower:                   3.0:!3   7-O  140.     57   39   13       26b     I56        35         2"        1a           60          i3d       33       4.0n
rUartie    DiAtIon:a                       3.3        25.1       7,   9.0  6.0 23.           'l5e       .         .5 ~ 42.                          3.         . 
DeaN:                                     4.A£. 4R8    8                            53        7         W60       36        169           6           33       21         .
Standar  Deflaton:2b   1.9                        2.4        1    34 )    7    3b       26        125        3it       13.          as          23         7        7
"Sien:PDR          2     2.b      4-      4.0            15.5     fi3   2,  39      53        63       63         23        12.n          AG          25       22        3.1
SLNROLS: PPOGIIWflER:e atmE
-umber  f       1 IMAVAILARLE                              7          A9 -6A7    PRO  TO a   BAS  YER                         - 23172  07 EDCAIO                asE OL
M-00:        NNI?0ENI 1ORH        4LI [ISLE9-(7   35  c- DANP0  RECEN  TitaN 3* 1 YEA                                        I - Rn  AND STAT  CORIf- OR!.?
Qv-rttl      INdODES  ART-2ng STDENT                              P5 21'0?                                                   5 - IHaJUE  OVR-C  S 2UDENT
Col.me£ end  :  lendRank Alas o   1331 u      6tesions.s                            0         36       L             6           3          1        .
St C.d O-lase  3t  1:13t.,eios  Covrmmt surc 1nuIOr                          Inec  Stcltls  Yearbook.13                                                           7_
Coeraiee   ducaion   ata  re .esfu  to  he ee Imstio  of. varou  edcaiosec   s.d*nayui  of r Is te  tae  ofeuetos  deeosn  baon  curou
defiottioe and AGNIThin LImis  to IMcb   heaccrc   ftea.              ReeercOiAT" each dae ren etif LoserfeAR   inouea  rpete Aed 5The  vRankIs workingTo
CaluEducatl I asd defIne ld Isth  Atale onritDe al.l eduato  aZ  Lrainng,bathforul ad no-fo,.al
(2) v   pra s if E duc attio rufere toeducation a t   hm.Le'o  ofitleean ocoar'ecainrtttoaldutontthucnd,Zelegreeoftp
(3) Litr..  rtec  (ct.  )  re  fte  obaied  reetomt-,    censuse m ,Inm  bo.l countrieoathey sre only apprnlestiMoonad iratdI dobtu  tha o0t any unifor
(4)n cublicd eupendlytur iank eduato(le. 4ro garsn3) refers tohal capitalr arc sare*cicurrenoerediree den ted to educato e hPublicend netooetm-puhlr
(5)lal    .nroliasnt ratios  (cots.. to   3ckth andcu)refero toshoo dear. and rhe the prcendtag  ofeigbe  childes rfet n enrolle  ful.t-tv  ind the approp riatescool
t    ublic and pre rivate by theel.   hey areit often tublec  tok a   nthe mrInm oferrrI thes .8     h  feeollmig ouniree ste to varition  In thet L ca us-Ind:e
date (i.e. *  cateisecii propulationa.c           and enrolreete).LEnrolmn  figure   fecuettlv arehihe th L   en  cthenabe  of* etuodenecas,  o1 er ofi.   verae
(.Stud.t  sose. I"nclucin. l66cutuatsd   .fntoesi caiflethrti.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
LESOTHO
FOURTh EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION RECURRENT EXPENDITURES, 1979/80-1983/84
(in thousand Maloti)
Preliminary Actuals             Budget
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
Administration              936       397        639       493        539
Sports and Culture          130       225        252       278       201
Inspectorate                594       465        692       678       692
Primary Education         5,444     7,729    10,002    10,283       10,253
Post Primary Education   2,561      5,020      6,093     6,949       5,895
LTI                         420       486        578       517         504
LDTC                        171       161        241       305         246
NTTC                        905     1,196      1,613     1,394       1,064
NUL                       2,713     4,358      5,064     5,879       6,371
Total MOE                13,874    20,037    25,174    26,776      25,765
as Z of Total Govern-
ment Recurrent
Expenditures             21.1%     19.3%     21.5%      22.0%      18.8%
Source: MOE, Educational Planning and Ministry of Finance.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
PROGRAM FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT, 1980 - 2000
1980        1985         1990        1995         2000
Enrollments '0OOs    244.8        286.7        327.4       362.5        389.4
Total Classrooms
Required 45:1        5440        6371         7276        8056         8653
Existing Classrooms* 2471         2224         2002        1801         1621
Existing Church
Halls in Use           706         635          572          515         463
New Classrooms
Required             1557        2876         4130        5225         6106
Increase in New
Classrooms Required 1557         1319         1254        1095          881
Schedule for
Construction               600         1300         1600         2600
Balance of New
Classrooms Needed                 957         2230        1725            0
Average Number of
New Classrooms p/a         120           260         320          520
Average Number of
New Sites per year**        30            65          80          130
(*) Given the very poor condition of the existing facilities, we assume a
10% replacement rate for each 5 year period. Church halls are assumed
to be equivalent to two classrooms.
(**) There are an average of four classrooms needed per school in Lesotho.
Source: Ministry of Education



LESOTIIO
rou1 1H EDUCATION PROJEC
S3ENDAR1 SChOOLS 5ENCEiTrf90 r8O01 FROJECT
A. Provilion of Facilitles and [4ulmu4t
Staftinu/Contlat Period                                                                                          lNeo  facilities
lime                     Student
S     IhoL               plac s         No. of         Average           No.         Teacher/Pupil        Average               Nev                      Now                         NIo                        you
Tll TNT'7   StreM2/   ClI..  lae    Tnoahror                         Ratio       ClasslTeacher/    Classrooms  Scm2            Laboratories         eaS2    Voriehone         Son3      Librarn      Ss_l        Other              3-
1.  MAMeru U.S.              431       410         15             lb            23                 20               30                  2          120     (Renovate, 23         -           I              100          I         100     Staff loem              33
2.  Noreeng H.S.             248       300          B             24            12                 23               31                  4          10           1              122          1              100          I         100    stah  soft              21
2 Stoft lou...        120
3.  Magiannoheng U.S.        450       410         11            31             22                 21               3                   -           -            1              122          2             200          -           -      Store loom              33
4.  St. Mary. U.3.           3S0       420         IZ             34             IS                 23              3S                  -           -            I              122                        -            -                  LAtrln        e        130
S.  Assumptioon U.S.         )11      3lS           9             38            14                2a                39                  1          1I0                                       I              100         -           -      Sta    Rom              3I
t.  St. Mlchasel. U.S.    339         310          12             29             I?                21                9                  3          ISO                                       -               -           I         100    Utheen                   35
electrical
1.  It. John'  U .S.         336       M14         11            4*             16                 24               3S                  4          340           1              122          1              100          1         100      Conn etion             2S
*.  St. Jaos U.S.            346       310          9             40             14                 2t              41                  -                                                                   - _  _  EOtesolon   4n _ __    Gina Do.I.
2U6      l 3109       S9             34            131                 23             31                  lb          960     2 Renovate            406     6 New              tt0          4          400    3 Staff  eoma          600
4 Nov                        I Entulion                                         2 Staff Houas
I Latrise
I Kitchen
Elect. Oeeeect.
1Dormtrorv
*.  Provislon of Suoulemaentary  quipnmt (Practical Sublects)
Itm-  of School                    Home ieonomeia          Agriculture        Comrce.         lle_nter, T.chooloet i/
1.  luthe luthe U.S.                           4                     a
2.  Holy Now eH.S.                                                  + t                *                      4
3.  log1  Peak's N..                           t .a
4.  St. Stephens 1.S.                          +                     _                  _
.S     rcted Heart U.S.                        -                    + S
6.  Lesotho Kish H.S.                          *                                        +                     +
1.  11lotse H.S.                               +                    +                   4                     +
S. Jt. Agne I.S.                               *                     *                                        4
9.   S       HraogII.S.                        +                     *                                        +                                                                                                                                                               t
10.   iaaitie. U.S.                            *                                                              I *
II.  Par,y J.,.S.                              4 *
12.  St. Jams H.S.                             '                    '                  -                      '                                                                                                                                                            a-
11.  Christ the King H.S.                      -                    a                  '
1/  Natutal growth of about 2 to 32 p.&. durIng projeet period ba  been  Included.
21  The echadule of weekly contact houre te used to derive requiremnts  for staff And fotlIttlae.  Staff raqoiramente or. basd,
geoerally on I teathing etaff per 25-30 contact periods. recilitles raqulramentc. at 60 utillization, should be calculated
at I claexrooa per 30-31 contact perlods u outlinAd in nov eacondary pollcle lloted In the Education Sector Survey.
1/  Includes soodmro, metal  eonk and drawing.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTED COMPOSITION OF TRAINED TEACHERS IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS,
1980-2000
LPTC/   LPTC +  LPTC +        PH +
LIET I  LIET II    JC      COSC   PH   COSC   PTC   APTC
Attrition
1980-1985     108       338     132       4     114   30     82    14
1985-1990      68       171      59      2       51   14    187    25
1990-1995      73       170      50       1      44   12    312    40
1995-2000      71       190      43       1      37   10    442    53
Replacement
1980-1985     129       129                                  439   125
1985-1990     105       161                                  186   125
1990-1995      55       308                                 214   125
1995-2000      61       404                                 237   125
New Posts
1980-1985                                                    561
1985-1990                                                   834
1990-1995                                                   832
1995-2000                                                   835
Establishment
1980          431      1352     527      15     457  122    326    57
1985          452      1143     395      11     343   92   1244   168
1990          489      1133     336      9      292   78   2077   268
1995          471      1271     286      8      248   66   2811   353
2000          461      1485     243       7     211   56   3461   425
LIET - Lesotho In-Service Education for Teachers
LPTC - Lower Primary Teacher Certificate
JC   - Junior Certificate (Grade 10)
COSC - Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (Grade 12)
PH   - Primary Higher
PTC  - Primary Teacher Certificate
APTC - Advanced Primary Teacher Certificate
Souc-e: Ministry of Education



- 41 -
ANEX 1
Table 6
LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CONSULTANTS
- Staff-Months -               Provided
Technical Assistance                          Provided by  of which  Re: PPF   by other
Required    Project    in PPF    Annex 2   Agencies
Education/Planning Specialist
Secondary School Survey                8           8          8        (bi)         -
Training Specialist in
In-Service Activities                 36          36          6        (c)          -
Vocational/Curriculum, Manpower,
Training Specialists                   9           9          9        (bii)        -
Evaluation Specialist                 10           -          -          -          -
Sub-total                 63                     23         -
Professional Services
Architect for Survey                 120          60          6        (a)         60
of Primary, Secondary
and Vocational Schools
including design, etc.
Construction Supervision             120          60          6        (a)         60
Civil Engineer                         6           6          -          -          -
Land Surveyor                          6           6          -          -          -
Quantity Surveyor                     12          12          -          -          -
Sub-total                264        14-                               120
Project Administration
Procurement Officer                   12          12          -          -
Accountant                            24          24          -          -
Sub-total                 56         36
Total                                363         243         35          -        120



lESOTEO
rOUVTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUhOA1DY or ESTIMATEo PEoJEsC cost ay oDUOKNEWT
(in halotl and US 000's)
CIvil Works
51l1    AcadesIc                                                                              Equipment   ln-earviet        Techaleal        Profelsional        Project                  Total
Work    Co_unel        Latrine         boardi.ut       Nogghna      Total      Furniture    Vahicls        Ttalnlna        Assistaneo         Services       Adiastratlo             lt 
A.  Prlmty Education
1. Claanrooa
a) Site mork                       211
b) Academlc-Coesunal                         3,96
c) Pit Latrineo                                            161
da  Purolture                                                                                                       480
Sub-total A                    liT      IT  R           1-67                      -               4's74          UD0              -             -               -                7U                                S.,o O      .*5I
A.  Secondary Education
I. Civil Works
S) Site WoI                         0oo
b) Acadeale-Co.m.,nal                          447
c) Ioardns                                                                  224
d) Staff housing                                            42
2. Furniture                                                                                                            107
3. EquIpment                                                                    _                                                      945
Sub-Total I                    T'00       4*T             T             - TIN                     T.              m7 -I!                                       -: IO                                                2.301     2021
C.  Vocational Education
1. Civil Vorlk
a) Site Work                        IF
b) Acadoalc-Comufnal                           138
c) Boarding                                                                 104
d7 Staff UouainS                                                                             76
2. Furoal.ut                                                                                                             34                                                                                                                      N
3. EquIpment                                                                                                                            100                                             _
Sub-Total C                                                                             -7  T _  _   MT m7                       i                             _                                                      621   so
0.  In-Service Training
1. Primary T.echera                                                                                                                     160           360             220
2. Primary 5. rrlncipals                                                                                                                 Ul           165             104
1. Vocational Teachers                                                                                                                   20            70              SO
4. Secondary S. Prinepale                                                                                                               is            70
5. Artchtectural Tethtletla_                                                                                                                           72
Sub-Total 0                                                                                           -           -              l             77               T                                                   1,44      1.10
C.  Institutional Support
1. Education tdaluistration                                                                                                              SO
2. Tentbodk & Equipment
Dlutributlon                       is         140                                                     [1l                           60
Sub-TotalS                      11         TGIi          -                -                                                      T-m                                                                                  348       281
F.  Specializad Studies
1. Facilities and Staff
Secondary Schools                                                                                                                                                  SO
2. Training Specialists                                                                                                                                                50
3. Vocational Traioin5                                                                                                                                                 SO
4. ln-Sorvica Program                                                                                                                                                  63
Sub-Total P                                                                                                                                                    YU                                                     21S       Ill
C.  Project Ad  ioistration                                                                                                                                                                                                   9 m  921  744
sane Coat (A to C)                                                                                    r             iTT           1.453            737            460             T,37                                MM         YV3- ,'-
(July 1984)
H.  Continaenciu
1. Phyalcal1 (t)                                                                                            S90          3 1              3s                                            II                                   834       674
2. Price InereMe (29Y)                                                                                   1.U63          173             4o8           191             loS               430             276                31 6    2 C9V
Sub-total N                                                                                        2,453         204 t43                        XI              no               Tw               M                     siU  TR.5
1.  Total Project Coats                                                                                   6.353          823          2,03C            928             843             1.943           1.153               16,083    13,003



LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(U'000)
CIVIL WORKS i FURNITURE
EQUIPMENT VEHICLES                                                                                         Phvsical
,-------------------------- - ,Contl                                                                              cies
PRIMARY  SECONDARY VOCATIONAL  IN-SERVICE  INSTITUTIONAL  SPECIALIZED    PROJECT      PROFESSIONAL
EDUCATION EDUCATION EDUCATION    TRAINING6    SWPORT         STUDY     ADMINISTRATION    SERVICES     Total      Z   Aoumt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
At CIVIL MORKS
..........
SITE MMORI                   211.0    100.0         17,0          -           18.0            -               -             -    346.0  10.0   34.6
ACADEIIC CONIJnAkL         3.99600    647.0        138.0          -          160,0            -               -             -   4941.0  10.0  494.1
LATRINES                      167.0        -          -           -              -            -               -             -     167.0  10.0   16.7
IOARDIN6                         -    224,0       104.0           -              -            -               -             -    328.0   10.0   32.8
STAFF HOUSING                    -       42.0       76.0          -              -            -               -             -     118.0  10.0   11.9
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS         4,374.0   1,013,0       335.0          -          178.0            -               -             -  5t,00.0  10.0  590.0
B, FURNITURE                    480,0    107.0        34.0           -              -            -               -             -     621.0   5.0   31,1
C. EQUIPMENT KEHICLES                -    948,0       100.0      263.0          140.0            -            44.0             -   1,495.0   5.O   74.8
D. IN-SERVICE TRAININ6              -         -          -       737.0              -            -               -             -    73740   0.0    0.0   *
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              -        -          -       445,0              -        215.0               -             -    660.0   0.0    0.0    '
F. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES             -        -          -           -              -            -               -       1.375,0  1,375.0  10.0  137.5
Go PROJCT ADMINISTRATION             -        -          -           -              -            -           877.0             -    877.0   0.0    0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            4,854.0   2.068.0     469."      1445.0          318.0        215.0           921,0       1,375,0  11,665.0   7.1   833.3
Total BASELINE COSTS               40854.0   2068,0      469.0    1,443.0           318,0        213.0           921.0      1375,0  119665,0    7.1  833.3
Physical Continsncies             461*4    154,1       40,2         13,2          24,9            -             2.2         137.5    933.3   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies             1,386.6    775,6       170.6      378.1           89.9         69.4           25.9          430.2   3586.2   6.7  239,0
Total PROECT COSTS                6,702.0   2,997.6      679.8    1,836.3           432.7        284,4         1,209.1       1,942,7  :6,084.5   6.7 19Ol,3
------ -  ------  :::::::::  :::3:::::  ::::3-::::-   :              zzxczz::_::::=,::-.    = 3_-a:  :  :      X: I__-
Taxes                            201.1      89.9       20.4        55.1           13,0          8.5            36,3          58.3    482.5   6.7   32.2
Foreiun Exchane                3,849,4   1,971.7       414.4    10425.1          282.3        219.9           35535         709.1   9r227,4    6.4  593,4
---- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --  ---- --- --      -  ---- --- ---- --- --- -  --  -  --- --- --- ---- --- -  ---  ---    -- ----  -- -  - --- ---



LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT  EXPENDITrUREI  BY CURRENCY
(H '000)                 (US$ '000)                     X Total
------------------------  ------------------------  I Foreign   Base
Local Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total    Exchmne    Casts
Al CIVIL WORKS , FURNITURE i EQUIPHENT VEHICLES
PRIMARY EDUCATION                                          1,993.6 2,960.4  4.854.0  1.530.8 2.393,2  3i924.0           61       42
SECONDARY EDUCATION                                           626.9 19441.1  2,068.0    506.8 1o165.0  1,671.8          70       18
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION                                          164.2   304.8    469.0    132.7   246.4    379,1          65        4
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS , FURNITURE , EQUIPMENT VEHICLES        2.684#7 49706,3  7t391.0  2P170,3 3,904.6  5t974.9           64       63
B. IN-SERVICE TRAINING                                           289.0 1,156.0  1.445,0    233,6   934.5  1,168.1          80        12
C. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                                          99.2   218.8    318,0     80.2   176.9    257.1          69         3  $
D. SPECIALIZED STUDY                                              43.0   172.0    215.0     34.8   139.0    173.8          80         2
E. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                        622,7   298,3    921.0    503.4   241.1    744.5          32         8
F. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                                         825,0   550.0  1,375.0    666.9   444.6  1,111.6          40        12
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             45U63.6 79101,4 11,665.0  3,689.2 5,740.8  90430d1          61       100
Physical Contingencies                                          342,8   490.5    833.3    277.1   396.6    673,6          59        7
Price Contingencies                                           1,950.8 1,635.5  3,586.2  1,577.0 1,322.1  2,899.1          46       31
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              6,957.1 9t227.4 16.084,5  5.543,4 7.45965 134002.8          57       138
::z::       z :::::: sz  UUUUzUU :::s =22s  22222 :  ::=
-- -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- -  -  -- - - - - - -- - - - - -   _ _ _ -- -   -   -- -- -- -
1



- 45 -
LESOTHO - FOURTH EDUC.TION PROJECT                                    Table  10
SUMMARY PROJECT COST
(h '000)                 (US$ '000)                    Z Total
-------- -                                 ---  Z Foreign Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total   Exchange    Costs
====   -===__   ===                 ==        __ =         - =      -
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
SITE WORK                      138.4   207.6    346.0    111.9  167.8    279.7            60        3
ACADEMIC COMMUNAL            1,976.4 2,964.6  4Y941.0  1,597.7 2,396.6  3,994.3           60       42
LATRINES                        66.8   100.2    167.0      54.0    81.0    135.0          60        1
BOARDING                       131.2   196.8    328.0    106.1   159.1    265,2           60        3
STAFF HOUSING                   47.2    70.8    118.0      38.2    57.2     95.4          60        1
Sub-Total CIVIL UMRKS           29360.0 3,540.0 5,900.0  1,907.8 2P861.8  47N69.6            60       51
B. FURNITURE                      186.3  434.7    621.0    150.6  351.4    502,0             70        5
C. EQUIPMENT VEHICLES             299.0 1,196.0  1,495.O    241.7  966.9  1,208.6            80       13
D. IN-SERVICE TRAINING            147.4   589.6   737.0    119.2   476.6    595.8            80        6
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           132.0   528.0    660.0    106.7   426.8    533.5           80        6
F. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES          825.0   550.0  1,375.0    666.9   444.6  1,111.6           40       12
G. PROJECT ADhINISTRATION         613.9  263.1    877.0    496.3   212.7    709.0            30        8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             4F563.6 7,101.4 11,665.0  3,689.2 5,740.B  9,430.1           61      100
Physical Contigecies              342.8   490.5    833.3    277.1  396.6    673.6            59        7
Price Contingencies             19950.8 1,635.5  3r586.2  1,577.0 19322.1  2,899.1           46       31
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES      6,857.1 9,227.4 16,084.5  5,543.4 79459.5 13,002.B           57      138
Total BASELINE COSTS                4,563.6 7,101.4 11,665.0  3,689.2 5,740.8  9Y430.1           61      100
Physical Contingencies             342.8   490.5   833.3   277.1  396.6   673.6               59        7
Price Contingencies              1,950.8 19635.5  3,586.2  19577.0 19322.1  2,899.1           46       31
Total PROJECT COSTS                 6,857.1 9,227.4 16,084.5  5,543.4 7,459.5 13,002.8           57      138
= = = _ = _ =   _ _ _ _=-= = = =   = _   = _  =       =  _   _ 



LESOTHO
PROPOSED FOURT8 EUUCATION PROJECT
ItIPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Ilmplementation's Years                                             2                      3                      4                      5
Calendar Years                    1984               1985                   1986                   1987                   1°88                 1989
Quarters                     3      4      1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4       1    2    3
Primary Education
1. Classrooms and                TTTI/  CCC   CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC   CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC   CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC   CCC  t1M  HnHM
Pit Latrines
2. Secondary Education                   XXX   XXX  XXX  000  000   000  TTT  TM   CCC   CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC   CCC  CCC  CCC  Mm   MM
Vocational Education
3. St. Elizabeth School                        XXX  XXX  000  000   000  TT  CCC  CCC   CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC   CCC  CCC  tl1  to1M
4. Furniture                                                          TTT  i    CCC  CCC   CCC  CCC  CCC  DDD   ODD  DDD  DDD
5. Equipment                                                          TTT  rTT  TTT  ITT   CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC   CCC  DDD  DDD  DDD
6. Teachers Training                     AM    AAA              AAA   AM               AAA   AAA              MAA   A                AM    AAA         AAA               C
7. Special Studies                             AAA  AAA  AM   AAA                                             AM    AM   AAA  AM   AMA
8. Technical Assistance                  AM    AA   AAA  AM  AAA   AAA  AMA  A  AAA   MAAA AA   AM  AM   AM   AM   AM  AAA    AA  MA  AAA
9. Professional Services                             AAA  AAA  AAA
10. Project Administration2/                                           AM   AAA  MA  AAA   A AA  AM   AM  AM    AAAM        A   AA   AAA   AAA  AM   AM
Legend: X - Survey of sites.
0 - Design and preparation of tender documentation.
T - Tendering and contract awarding.
C - Construction and/or manufacturing period.
D - Equipment and furniture delivery.
A - Activity.
1H- Defects and liability period.
Estimated Key Dates
Credit Signing            08/84                                                                                                                             _ _
Credit Effectivenest    09/84                                                                                                                               -
Project Completion        03/89
Credit Closing Date       09/89
I/  Through PPF Funds.
2/ Administration services provided under Third Education Project, until end 1985.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 12
LESOTRO
PROPOSED kOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(In US$000's)
Cumulative   Undisbursed
CY     FY 1/  Quarters 2/  Disbursements   Disbursements    Balance
10,000
1985        2                800             800          9,200
1985               3                100              900         9,100
4               100            1,000         9,000
1986        1                200           1,200          8,800
2               200            1,400         8,600
1986               3                400            1,800         8,200
4               400            2,200         7,800
1987        1                400           2,600          7,400
2               600            3,200         6,800
1987               3                600           3,800          6,200
4               800            4,600         5,400
1988        1                800           5,400          4,600
2             1,000            6,400         3,600
1988               3                800           7,200          2,800
4               600            7,800         2,200
1989        1                600           8,400          1,600
2               600            9,000         1,000
1989               3                400           9,400            600
4               400            9,800           200
1990        1                200          10,000              0
1/ Bank Group FY: July 1 - June 30 (quarters 1 through 4).
The country's FY runs from April 1 through March 31 (quarters 4 through
3).
2/ From date of Credit Effectiveness.



...1
LESOTHiO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Ministry of Education, Sport and Culture
Organization Chart - 1983
NVt1  i nf           (  m             EI C
d  is                                                                                                                     visa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TT.~. "  Fn,i,
u            LI 0                                                          r-                           -- l'4fl. is. ..
|   011rAnr                                                                                                         C ,,       . 4             C     n    -
*0,O.k.,,ElL lt       Ou.dBrtO            Sr.c.a',,t,                                            L                                                                               .   - I ..oIi,aI, t.chn.aI inIAI
So~~~~~.tw  11101 and lank stuff                                                                                                                                                                                            lank - 7fllt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IhiR    1111910.1 lama  C11
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   Oc  N"IrD   IMR  Teniahn                                                                       Cmitr dJ4iolre
T S R P  T ferie or s"ell   sf Flo,-MCI Na 



LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Educatlonal PVromid, 1982
MALE                                                                                            FEMALE                                                            b   II  e E                    I!
1727116   '1                                                         2010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    I,I1 
E   t 1   119                                                                                                                    j
r      15  20   122   Imj   14%                                                                                                        148  M4                                                                                                        1%    1os  127         203 1  II
A       Ii  19   126                                                                                                                  292   27.                                                                                                                     130
v   tso   ,0                                                                                                                 413   459                                                                                                       1,33
1  -12  187  130 3III1
c  I 1  16  136                                                                                               lur                                                                                                                 140~~~~~~~~~~~wI 
.,        13 .1,                                                                                                                       "2                                                                                                                    128
*10   15  141  11474  182                                                                                                       23G242                                                                                                                24 21  17.433  144    25891   201
A      o    14  145                                                                                                            2?                      4 74i                                                                                                         149
fa I        9   e3 949                                                                                                       J?                            6286                                                                                                     153
7   I 2   1683                                                                                                  -4-1                                                                                                                                        18 7
p.i     :    9    *e      3 1l    lOf 102                                                          13 7111                                                                                  1                                                           2 1231'587 17 1    277045   9158
A                                                                                             __
Q       3        17                                                                    is.'                                                                                                          I                                                               1e 19
2    7  3                                                  239t2 F                                                                                                                              26392                                                  181
I    8   ¶J                    31                                                                                                                                                                                                      40 __  _              14096
A,0Ls  LO) x>z   t.aulunm                           o                      0L(U                        U.10                Xi'CI                    40 O3
I I                      I           ,     _I   I                .      2     ,        .  IkI                                I  AI                                           I            ,           I
I ly r1wnis Io1 vow.-s I      w-k, moa    .    7r   rc rsn  wl"    11. 11 . 8; Ut  14sFa co.  I U 'srr*J t'.t W.' I ,o 7Jt C<1>, I I1dw  Al (ifs l" w<b  ,- Pc(     Im ms.Ks.............. A  iYyc u Iw  *1 muz Ps
7~a,.Nz1rg423I's%rIis@>>t 1'0vc <'la  (Vff1 $'>>O!?aorIt'l?Qv  -,Y.,.Vh   Qb C'.  0|V:.J''  0w19 Wt '."'?d243   (('d; AIS 1,'0 I? *                     P.M  ll0MJsv>Xvb       C<       1(AC  b* c , 
&.uCo Loi)1rQ1-O1cNXoTW Sul.% 7LTO it,% lq2).% ,VAt'<t^1',T-2
W  ea,^ -25urs



-so-                                                                         A50- I
Chart 3
LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Education Systen. 1983
aA                                      s 7  a  9                   y I  SI2 3 1 I           16    17    Is             la    19    20        20    23         22 D
§~~~~~~~~~t       -   t                                                 t            I I I   1  -
Grace}        1      2     3     d      5      6      7            I     9      10           I     12   1*3            13    14    15        iS    I6          17   ias
PRTIIAV                         rPOsT PR IuARY   rOCATIONALI       TECHNICAL                       POST SECONDARY
ARINOR SECONDARY            SENIOR SECONDARY                        HIGHER
Post G-du
PbuS
Ow.9               Abrood
EdP,.ham         R LeeWl ee
0.. 1 Y
J.*  . .o pod
orC    -, Pr.mv Te. Tr Crt .a.
TPTCq A   P   T   C   CI_.S C  T.I
IJ Ro%ed Da i. Lco who _ Su.d-d m *ho                                  <,uc:l{ 
°rsLz_                                                     on  "n EI.bct I E M S B.-uo
2/ JomPerwonlLAC nd NUL I                                                                                                  O vi__
c~~~Vl"oS   E""t- _._tnwGvenelduolCarser.so
E-rv P.-t 1. LA-n Fo.-                            Vocwt qn                Ar uW-P.  L A C              E         -
APTC     Ad- utco mers T   Te-hd.e .                                        C-          C T I
COSC- C-tmb,op, 0 .,t tSdACOSI "tfle
CTs      Cwnncd To g -qwt   N 
LAC      L-olhc Aw-fcut-fl Cd1Ir4t                   CouorC D,              HW,1h P,t cJ .0e
LIPA   -Laothemlout :1 Punl.C TAan m                         glo   *nwwTa    Cow-   u^7Mn_ro
STC      S-  SbtV TcowC-h.,a _  
IFFAS    In     VA flt. -ud Siud-'
LOiC     LgothoOoDlhu.MsInWrdm.onjCenr    LOIC                                ODIJI
ODK    O-re. De-rpau- M.raevnss_ Irsr,rurM1
Scoru  ftmn.si. o' Edi.cao tof  LelOlho {
and florid HBk StatE    -                    Nldnlery                 L I PA                                 N
NwurAesd SAt            5       aeIMs-a.nm
flrid Ra.& - 22297



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
ITEMS FINANCED BY PPF ADVANCE
The advance would finance the cost of 35 staff-months of
technical assistance and consultants' services, including salaries, travel
and subsistence expenses, and support staff and serv'ces for carrying out
the following project preparation activities:
Amount
Actsivty                                 (US$)
(a)       Survey of physical facilities for about                225,000
100 primary, 10 secondary and one voca-
tional schools; adaptation of existing
primary school designs and preparation
of new designs for other schools (12 staff-
months of consultant architects' services
and support staf-).
(b) (i)   Survey of facilities, staff utilization                 50,000
and curriculum structure in secondary and
high schools for effective implementation
of education policy and identification of
requirements of project secondary schools
(8 staff-months of consultants' and support
services).
(ii)  Review of curriculum, staffing and                     100,000
facilities utilization in vocational
schools and survey of employment op-
portunities for graduates; and development
of trade testing and apprenticeship
policies (9 staff-months of consultants'
and support services).
(c)       Support for review of existing and pre-                 65,000
paration of new in-service training
programs for primary, secondary and voca-
tional school teachers and primary school
principals (6 staff-mcnths of technical
assistance plus support services and pro-
duction of course materials).
Total Cost                                 440,000



LElurLo
UP0TH IWUCATION PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS Mg5 PIOJICT IN?PLECKTATION
QOh?OHNCT               OJICTIVEs                              PFUSE"  SITUATION                         FlOJECT   TARGET                   PERIOD              APPROACI/lEASUIuNtT STUNOD                SUPIIVISION DATE              STATUI P*OCIZSS         t Ut OODA?tlOG
Priury        1. Asaast Government In strengtheninX   1. Only 2,843 classroom   eoist 1. Rutld atout 330 pritary                       1. I11-1959            1. Survey ot sites and analysis ot
Clasroo tm and lncreasing Its classroao  cons-              with result that. nationally,   claslroom  for 16500 students.                                   usuable local uterIals.
traction1 capacity using minima number  only on,el c orausto  ealots tar
of local rrmerIa,s.  All tacl iltes           every lb saudants.
mould he repilemble an the naltonal
2. Improve physical student  meaztng          3. About 651 oi tce primary    2. supply turnituoe to 1I.000                                     2. Coamtruclton classroom  ulslv
particularly In the ruatl steen.              pupils ore Inadequitely              tudenrts and about 330 teachers,                             local contractors.
seated.
3. Supplying school witn santery              3. MinmsirY of Health                3. Supply pit latrines at about                             3. Construction oa  pit latrines.
faclitias.                                    eatImuts  that only about 101  150 schools.
sehwls hive adequate sanitary
licilit is.
4. Increuss access to tull primary            4. Mny rural Children do rut  4. tncreae number at clssrooma                                     4. Qaarierly  Conitruction reports
educatios  primarily  is the rural            have  cess  s lo full primary        In the rural areas and reduce in                            are prepared.
areas.                                        cycle,                              equity.
is-Sarvmic   1. Upgrade 900 unqualitied prlmaty             1. 3l1 at rural teachers are   1. Upgrade quality eo  aducatlo    1. 1951-1955 -                 1. Test and    tloate tralnees
Trainimg      tsachers.                                      unqualified with 651 teaching  partlcularly In rural primary    Iniake .try twe   hnooladge prior and after caurse.
gradem 1, 2, and 1.                 schools.                              years for a too-   Half yearly visit tc schools vltiei
year course.          tralnees are leachieg to lather
toeaher rctention data.
2. Give ad4noistrative  traiing to 200  2. Only 22 at i,040l primary               2. Irprove the adainlstrative         2. Two Intahke        2. Principals trained expected to
primary principals,                            principals have received            eftectiveness snd make school         1989'-lb  and          trais other teachers.  To run with
salivistrative training.            mon  coat ettecilc e.  ImProve        1918-198l.            HI oftticials 2 to A workshvp
quality ot schools.                                         yearly.  Training reports prepared
halt yeaely.
3. Upgrade pedSogolclly about 85             3. hot of vocational teachers  3. Improve teaching wothods.                3. Two Intakes ot  3. Results ot easam   cvleveed yearly.
vocational teachers.                          have on pedagogirsl tralsin.  arrsive at a more cast attective  sbut 40 pupils
use ot facilitles and equipment  1IS4-191b and
at the vocatlonal  chools and to l95t-1955
improve quality ot graduales.
*. Give sdminatraitve, policy and             A. The secondiay principols    4. Provide ttInintv to about 120 4. Two courses of  A. Have participant evaluation
curriculum  trsining to about 120             have a  asch ot knovledgo ot    principals or vtee principals.   one the lirst In   eorses csntent.
pincipals.                                    G-oernent polities sod               Training would he provided by         19d6 and second tn
demons.trate yeak                   IDH.                                  198.
idmlnlstt4tute stkill.
Secoa4ary   1. Supply of science equipsent to about 1. Majority of schools do not  1. Supply actanea equipeeni  to   1. 1984 - Survey    i. Replay ronsultinis/train local
schools       10 secondary echols.                           have noeded science equipment  about 22,000 students to Impreove of needs with PPF  staff.  Aim Isprose standard and
to teach acience courses.           qliy  eihing  nd etsa                 funds. Standard       quality of science tnmtruciion.                                                                                           a 
raucs.   schools would psy            lists of equipment Vslit to school by HCDC stall to
nominal replacesent lee.              prepaned by  CDC.  review progrees.
1984-19i8
purchue and
distributten at
equipment.



CUQPOhliET                     OLJTSIVES                             rtEsENT Sl'ATION                       PROJECT TARGET                      ERIIOD               APPROACI/flAIUIhIIJ T cUITlOD                SUPE1VISION DATS            STATUS 15OURS                  aucnteSi
Secondary    2. Supply of  oypyleoenTtay equlipent            2. Dot to shortage of adequate 2.  Supply equIpment and tools    2. 195O  - Llst                   2. tie of fclutIltes  aolesaed
hool.         and to1. so  I secondac   shool.                oubhr  ol tools pnticolsrY  tor sboot 6.b0C0 stde-ts.                       prepered.              Yearly.
hand tools shools are not           Covetrsenot copletton  report of  IU5 -   ,qulperln
able to   .tlotse the oae of    Second Education Projet  (Credit prchased.
exIstlrg practiesl sutjocts           O8-LSO) rsco_mrded this
fat liltte.                         4assstance.
1. Construction of elass,u-a   -1ene    1. iJajr shortage  t1 secants    3. Protida  faclittis   sbth                       3. 1Q0 - Survay    3. Assess yearly utiliation  rat.*
laboratarlsa  aed  -.tIpUrpre  -Nrhsbpn  laotrstortes and ftitlea to furnitare  ti  enable teachert to  of f ilile                                o  fac ilities proIded.
at etistlig schools ssporte-cng                loath prac.titc   skills are         have needeJ fatiitites to teach   needa sith PPF
shortages  St fIlitie                           blg  -sperenred.                    stene and prartfrol shills.             funds to be
completfd by niu
and oiten
identifIed
ISIt-ISES -
facilities built.
196 - facilities
equlpped and In
use.
Vocational/ 1. To prouide shill tratning relevant    1. Shortage of CTI type                       1. Espand facilIties of esisting  1. 19U4 - Silo                 As,oses  psas rate of trarnesa.
Co_eerta    to employeent opportonitles.                      comorclal/boulnes  graduates  vncatlonal school is train                    survey  and
Education                                                     Is bing osyslenced.                  yeory about SO pupils.                 preparation of
architectural
2. Fiest provlIesn of bWtness trainine 2. Wlgher Secondary lusiness    2. Praoide busines  trainieg                         2. 1984-19S  -       2. Do Tracec study of graduates.
ouetde capital In a groth conter.              TraimnI    is only preUvded In   opportunities  In a rurot cenotr. Contructlon
one Inatitutton.                                                            factilitrs and
supply of
equipment and
furniture.
3. January 1Q51 -
Firs school
Intake.
Eloal-tion   1. EvalUose content and effectiveness    1. Once teachers cosplete                    1. Asies socst ellectinoress  of  1. 1964-1985                1. Report espected In  ISIS.
of prusy in-semlte  training ol                 cOrse, no ass Issni  Is done  In-serolce  course. its quality,
unqualtiled teachers.                           to Judg  etofeitvneceso of           et1on1too and activltIn  of the
course.                             program's  gradsates.
Studies       1. Undertahe studies of factlities  and   1. Without analysis, Covetn-   1. Studies sil  amssIt                              I. 1984               1. Report espected 1955.
ataff Utilicatln at the aeoCndary and  sent vill nt be able to                      Goverasenl collect needed data
vocational leet.                               Implesont Its noo edusetton          to lispisent the needed.
policies.                             ql4ttable and cust-eIffctine
tessher and facitittes
diltrlcution wlthin the system.
Technotal    1. To reCruit teahoical  personnel and    1. Shortage ot shiled  issothc 1. ArChitects, englyest,                             1. IliA-lI9S          1. Sesi-annuaR  reolec of tasir
Asaistance    -.sltanta  for arChitectaral Unlt.             sonponer.                            quantity and land surveyors.                                  perfotmancee.
1. 5etrult pr.curesont and acravting    2. Traininq ronsultania  in                  2. Pro.ura-ent and acco,onaocy    2. 198, -1589
consultants  to assiat ?SRIP.                   atsa  noesdd.  Use of can-          ounasltants hired on thc  need                                                                                                                                                               -
soltants on thl  need basis.         bosts 
3. tecrult .nalustaOn speialist.                3. Conaultant talltanca              lvaluator ta he esPltyed.              1. PIh4
requl red.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.        Reports and Studies Related to the Project
A.1 Project Preparation Documents submitted by Goverrment on
June 20, 1983.
A.2 The Education Sector Survey, Report of the Task Force, MOE,
November 1982.
A.3  Vocational Training, Technician Training and Technical
Education in Secondary Schools.
A.4 Report on Primary School Mapping, MOE, September 1980.
A.5 Status Report on In-Service Teacher Training Activities,
MOE, July 1982.
A.6 The Cost-Effectiveness of Teacher Training: NTTC, Unesco,
Simon Pratt, 1979.
B.        Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower
B.1 The Outlook fcr Labor Force Growth and Employment, 1980-2000
Dr. Meredith Burke, July 1981, World Bank/UNDP Report.
B.2 Survey of Establishment in Lesotho, 1980, S.S. Honda,
Department of Labor, September 1981.
B.3  Non-Formal Education Activities in Lesotho, Lesotho Distance
Teaching Center, July 1983.
B.4  Kingdom of Lesotho, Population Census - Analytical Report,
Volume IV, 1976 - Bureau of Statistics.
C.        Selected Working Papers
C.1 Educational, Architectural, and Financial Working Papers.
C.2 Curriculum Development Policy, Ministry of Education, 1980.
C.3 Reports and Studies, prepared for the Education Sector
Survey, 1980-1981.



*  *rJJlsbi ,*5%,L/ r                                                                           ,,,               .,. I, ,
- -         /X                                                                   * (AutIC N_ S"  
, 0  .atIsNA   X    J0bnr_rs              *                                                                    )
__       _     _     _     _     _     _                                                                                /           k   ' "uH^rr.. ][.*lttlul
, \< _~~~~~~~~~ ~'i'....>t 0t  \ 
a;,   f      zS            |                                                    § l ^ 9 t | Y ^ s LERIB
j   )>  r *   ~~~~~__                                                           XJ    i           vI^rw--- N#l_r~~~~~.    I >
|                                1t10y} .                                     /=@\t1///  o(.._ :                                  \
i r; \/3   '.                                                                                   __;ls  _   -
|~~                                          ~                  /                  .. A                           -                   tt 
'~~~~~~~ .e                                           'V --;s'       t   -<-- /z1s4t
/   ~ ~        I"'' ;? !    /i           .irJ    **{"'**      *.-.*i4                   -       .*s*,.*
/  , VA<;.;~~~~~~Q THNG                                                                    I .,&4Ef1tz    
y  - . t7 \> {E \ P41 gS E R U / v ~~~~~-'                                                          .,,,M ...........
S   f   I   k   Ma"l r 8      \     . | ls {I \ti              '             E                 2           i~~~~~~~
I g t I 2-.-iL 11.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'us,4R  



I B R D 18114
BUTHABUTH                         I;
MIM
IBE
Li
ER E                                                                              MOKFf0TL0f4G
--OL
L
n
-WLARC,
rj
t
2W'30
IER I                                                           t
THABA-TSEKA
t
t
t
UNDJRBERG
t
OACHA"S    NEK                      A
30-w-
NIOHALE'S HOEK
t
r
LE50T 110
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
A
Q U T H I N G
1A                                                                                                                          ..VI U :.IANII..D
t
IM7, -Zl.-.,
Z"






