Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
RePOrtNo. 11162
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1512-LSO)
SEPTEMBER 18, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
April I through March 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At Appraisal (December 1983) = US$1 = Maloti 0.81
At Completion (March 1992) = US$1 = Maloti 2.75
GLOSSARY
ICARA        The United States Bureau of Refugee Affairs
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MOE          Ministry of Education
NCDC         National Curriculum Development Center
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
OPEC         Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR          Project Completion Report
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SSU          School Supplies Unit
TA           Technical Assistance
TSRP         Training for Self-Reliance Project
TTCB         Technical Training for Capacity Building



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaiuation
September 18, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Lesotho Fourth Education
Project (Credit 1512-LSO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Lesotho Fourth Education Project (Credit 1512-LSO)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
F)URTH EDUCATION PRO.IECT
(Credit 1512-LSO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .................................................                                        i
Evaluation Summary ..............                ... .. .-                                     iii
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity .1
Project Background .1
Project Content and Description.                                                        2
Project Design and Organization.                                                        2
Project Implementation.                                                                 3
Major Results of the Project.                                                           4
Project Sustainability.                                                                 4
Bank Performance.                                                                       5
Borrower Performance.                                                                   7
Project Relationship.                                                                   7
Consultant Services.                                                                    7
II.    PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .................. 8
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .10
Related Bank Credits .10
Project Timetable .11
Loan Disbursements .11
Project Implementation .12
Project Costs & Financing .13
Project Benefits .15
Compliance with Credit Covenants .19
Use of Bank Resources .20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I -      Comparison of Enrollment and Available Facilities at Appraisal
and at Completion in Project Primary Schools  .......         ...............  22
Annex 2 -      IDA Secondary/High Schools .................................   26
Annex 3 -      Names of Officials Met During Mission and Names of
Institutions Visited (Partial List) ...............................  27
Annex 4 -      List of Progress Reports Submitted by TSRP  ........          ...............  28
Annex 5 -      List of Primary Schools, Enrollment and Facilities
Financed by OPEC .29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1512-LSO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Education Project in
Lesotho, for which Cr. 1512-LSO in the amount of SDR 9.7 million ($10 million equivalent)
was approved on July 31, 1984 by IDA's Board of Executive Directors. The Credit was
closed on September 30, 1991, two years behind schedule. The last disbursement was on
March 30, 1992, and the Credit was fully disbursed.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division of the
Southern Africa Department (Preface, Executive Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower
(Part II).
The PCR is based, inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit
Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the borrower; Progress
Reports by the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and interviews with Bank staff and
Lesotho Government officials who were closely associated with the project.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1512-LSO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i)    The project was designed and launched at a time when Lesotho's economy was
experiencing grave difficulties arising in large measure from repeated setbacks to agricultural
production on account of unfavorable conditions and the closure of the country's principal
diamond mine in 1982 when extraction became unprofitable. The closing of some of the
mines in South Africa had resulted in severe unemployment in Lesotho, while at the same
time there was considerable exodus from the country of skilled and professional manpower
due to better job employment opportunities in the homelands which had just been created.
ii)    The project's objectives and design were suitable and responsive to the needs of the
country, given the socio-economic climate referred to above (Paras. 1-4). In recognition that
its main resource was its people, the Government's main strategy as enunciated in the
Education Sector Survey, which was published in 1982 immediately prior to the identification
of the project, was to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of expenditures in education
and to selectively improve training in certain skill areas so that the system's output would be
more competitive in the regional labor market. Specifically, the project's objective as
indicated in Para 3, was to improve educational quality by (a) alleviating excessive
overcrowding, (b) increasing the availability of instructional materials, and (c) upgrading
unqualified teachers. In a more limited way, the project also aimed at improving and
expanding skill training in selected vocational secondary schools.
Implementation Experience
iii)    All civil works components planned at appraisal were completed. In addition, the
construction program was extended by about 20% and those newly added facilities were also
completed (Section III, Para. 29). The project had a cost overrun in dollar terms of about
24%. In view of the additional facilities that were established and the depreciation of the
dollar against the SDR, this was not unduly excessive (Paras 6, 30). The other major
variance was a two-year extension of the Closing Date from 1989 to 1991. The Closing Date
was extended because: i) Project implementation staff were heavily engaged in completing
the Third IDA project for which additional facilities were authorized by IDA using "savings"
that becamne available on account of the devaluation of the local currency against the SDR; ii)
in anticipation of these savings, IDA had agreed to the Government's request to use some of
the funds for training of technical staff (the training period required two years beyond the
project's Closing Date) for various government agencies involved with the Highland Water



_ iv -
Project which was at that time under preparation (Para. 6). In the end, the expected
"savings" were in large part off set by inflation and only a portion of the planned technical
staff were trained under the project (Part III, Table 8b).
Results
iv)    Overall the project has achieved satisfactory results. The quantitative targets of the
project have been achieved, or even exceeded. For instance, 342 classrooms were
constructed and furnished, compared to an appraisal target of 330. Similarly the secondary
schools, laboratories and related facilities were provided essentially as planned (Annexes 1
and 2). In respect to the qualitative improvement aspects, the project fared reasonably well.
For instance, with regard to reducing overcrowding in the primary and secondary schools,
which was a major quality improvement target of the project, in the 85 primary schools
assisted under the project, class size was reduced by more than half from about 138 pupils per
classroom at appraisal to about 61 pupils in 1991 (Section III, Table 8a). Similarly, in the 28
schools assisted by the OPEC Fund (under parallel financing), class size was also reduced by
more than half, from about 112 pupils per class at appraisal to about 54 in 1991 (Annex 5).
A custom-built storage facility for the Schools Supplies Unit (SSU) was provided and the
distribution of instructional materials was strengthened, as envisaged. The project was less
successful in regard to the teacher upgrading program, not so much in quantitative terms but
in terms of the content of the program. (Part III, Table 8b). In retrospect, the program
would probably have been more effective if its main thrust had been to impart teaching skills
needed in classroom situations (eg. preparation of lesson plans, teacher-pupil interaction,
improving classroom delivery, etc), rather than trying to upgrade the teachers' academic
knowledg. (Paras. 8, 13c).
v)     Another important result of the project has been its impact on the community.
Communities in various parts of the countries are already using a simplified version of the
designs used in the project schools to build schools on their own, thus confirming the
affordability and replicability of the primary school classrooms (Para. 10).
Sustainability
vi)    The project's institutions are likely to be sustained as integral parts of the country's
educational institution for the foreseeable future. Lesotho has had a long tradition of
community and church involvement in the management and financing of schools. Most
primary and secondary schools were started by churches of various denominations and the
schools continue to have some affiliation with church bodies up to the present. At present,
about 20% recurrent expenditure is borne by parents. In the long term, the key to the
sustainability of the project institutions lies on the efficiency of the system for cost-sharing
between the three principal partners in the management and financing of the system (i.e.
proprietors/church bodies, parents and the Government). In the past this partnership had
tended to be rather loose, ill-defined and somewhat ad hoc, A new law was enacted in 1992
to more clearly define the functions and responsibilities of the church bodies vis-a-vis the
government and the communities in the management and financing of the schools. The new
law also gives a more effective leverage to the Government in allocating resources to the
schools (eg. recruitment and posting of teachers and headmasters, sanctions for non-collection
of school fees and book rentals, etc.). These measures are expected to contribute to the
sustainability of the system as they affect directly the management and financing of



- v -
educational institutions at the school level, including the provision of budgetary support for
instructional materials and maintenance of school facilities and equipment (Paras. 10-1 1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
vii)   The project was implemented essentially as planned, The major variance being a two-
year extension of the Closing Date from September 1989 to September 1991. In dollar terms,
the project showed a cost overrun of about 24%, but this was largely due to the fluctuation of
the dollar against the SDR and the increase in the civil works component of the project.
During the implementation period, the construction program was extended by about 20% of
the original civil works component (Section III, Para. 29). When these new facilities are
taken into consideration, the cost overrun of about 24% was not unduly excessive. The
project has achieved (or even exceeded) its quantitative targets (in respect to classrooms and
related facilities constructed, etc). Likewise it has achieved at least one of its major
qualitative targets, that of alleviating overcrowding in primary and secondary schools assisted
by the project (Section III). The project was less successful in its teacher upgrading
programs, largely because the courses were overly skewed toward upgrading the academic
qualifications of the participants, rather than improving their teaching skills and classroom
techniques. However, this is being addressed in a follow-up project (Education Sector
Development Project).
viii)   Lessons derived from implementation of the project include the following:
(a)    The project brings to the fore once again the critical importance of linking as
closely as possible (at times even integrating) the implementation unit of a Bank-
assisted project with the main Government agency responsible for the management
and financing of the project institutions. Without this, the Government's commitment
to the project and its sense of "ownership" are likely to be seriously jeopardized. In
this particular case, the project was implemented by an inter-Ministerial board known
as Training for Self-Reliance Project (or TSRP). In theory it may be laudable to
assign responsibility for implementing externally-financed investment projects to an
inter-ministerial body consisting of representatives from the principal Government
ministries involved in implementing such projects, in the interest of enhancing
coordination among government agencies and to foster cross-fertilization among them.
However, in practice, as the experience of TSRP has demonstrated, the functions and
responsibilities of the Board were not clearly delineated vis-a-vis the line ministries,
and MOE for all practical purposes became just one of the several ministries that were
represented on the Board rather than the principal "owner" of the project that was
closely involved in the various aspects of implementing the project (eg. selection of
science equipment). Had it not been for the non-partisan and highly professional roles
played by some of the TSRP staff in providing informal link with MOE, the
successful completion of the project would probably have been gravely endangered
(Para. 13 a). Under a follow-up project (Education Sector Development), TSRP was
re-organized to become a unit under the Planning Section of MOE. While this should
help in enhancing MOE's "ownership" of the project, it is too early to assess the
impact of this integration on the overall efficiency of the new implementation
arrangement.



- vi -
(b)    The project underscores the crucial role that a school manager plays in
fostering a physical and academic environment conducive to an effective learning-
teaching process. School management is particularly critical in a country like Lesotho
where the schools are owned and operated by a partnership of church
boards/proprietors, the communities and the Government. Heretofore, the
Government had at best a limited role in the selection and positing of school
managers. Inevitably, in the absence of a central body that sets overall performance
standards or academic qualifications, school mangers are selected on an ad hoc
manner, and there is a wide variation on the quality and performance of school
manager. The completion mission noted that there was a close and consistent
relationship between the quality of the school manager and the academic and physical
climate he was able to foster. The lesson to be derived from this experience is that
the selection, training and posting of school managers is so critically important that it
should not be left to ad hoc arrangements and that Ministries of Education should
consider these functions crucial for the delivery of effective teaching-learning (Para.
13b).
(c)    The project confirms the importance of orienting in-service teacher up-grading
programs toward acquisition of teaching skills and classroom techniques rather than
upgrading the academic qualifications of the participants (para. 13c).
(d)    The project underscores the importance of synchronizing carefully
implementation of an on-going operation with the processing and approval of a new
operation in order not to overburden the borrower's implementation capacity. In this
particular project, the staff of the project implementation unit (TSRP) was so heavily
involved with the on-going operation that the new project did not start in earnest until
three or four years after the project became effective, by which time the project was
getting close to its original Closing Date (Para 13d).



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1512-LSO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
-Project Name:      Fourth Education Project
-Credit No.         1512-LSO
-Country:           Lesotho
-Sector:            Population and Human Resources
-Subsector:         Education
B.    Project Background
1.    Sector Development Objectives. At the time the project was appraised in 1983,
Lesotho's economy was experiencing difficulties. The rate of growth of real GDP had slowed
remarkably from a high 7% per annum in the 1970's to only 2.3% between 1982 and 1984.
This slow down was attributable primarily to: (i) repeated setbacks to agricultural production
because of unfavorable weather conditions, and (ii) the closure of the principal diamond mine
in 1982 when extraction became unprofitable. The economic and institutional dependence on
South Africa had, as is the case at present, serious implication for Lesotho's future. In
addition to monetary and customs agreement, South Africa was and remains Lesotho's major
trading partner and source of employment. The closing of some of the mines in South Africa
had resulted in unemployment in Lesotho. At the same time, there was considerable exodus
from the country of skilled and professional manpower due to better employment
opportunities in the homelands which had just been established. In recognition that its main
resource was its people, the Government's central goal as enunciated in the Education Sector
Survey which had just been published (1982) was to improve the quality and cost
effectiveness of expenditures on education and training to selectively expand training services
in critical skills.
2.    Policy Context. It was in the context of the economic and social conditions discussed
above that the Fourth Education Project was designed and launched in 1983. The Education
Sector Survey and the Third National Development Plan (1982-1986) had underscored the
importance of expanding access and improving the quality and efficiency of the educational
system. In particular, the Government was anxious to address the shortage of classrooms and
other learning facilities. With an average teacher student ratio of 1:86, Lesotho had at the
time the dubious distinction of having perhaps the highest teacher:pupil ratio in sub-Sahara
Africa. At the secondary level, the Government's policy underscored the need to selectively



- 2 -
expand skill training, and generally to expose students to some practical subjects. This too
was incorporated in the project design.
3.     Project Objectives. The project was largely successful in linking project, sector and
macro-policy objectives. Specifically, the project had the following objectives:
a.     to improve educational quality by (i) reducing the excessive overcrowding that
was prevalent throughout the system through the provision of new classrooms
and related facilities; (ii) increasing the availability of instructional materials
through the provision of support for the storage and distribution of textbooks,
instructional materials and science equipment; and (c) upgrading unqualified
teachers through a large in-service teacher upgrading program; and
b.     to improve and expand skill training in selected vocational schools and
through the introduction of pre-vocational subjects in some of the secondary
schools.
C.     Proiect Content and Description
4.     Project ComDonents. At appraisal, the project consisted of the following components:
a.     Primary Schools:
i.     provision of 330 classrooms (and related facilities) as well as furniture
and equipment. These facilities were intended in particular for existing schools
that were grossly overcrowded.
ii.    in-service programs for about: (i) 600 unqualified primary teachers;
(ii) 200 primary school principals; (iii) 85 vocational teachers; (iv) 120
school principals (during school vacations); and (v) six (6) architectural
technicians per year (for a total of 30 architectural technicians) for the project
implementation office;
b.     Secondary Schools:
iii.    provision of new facilities and science equipment in 8 existing
secondary schools, and
iv.    provision of science equipment for 70 additional secondary schools.
c.     Vocational Schools
establishment of a business/commercial stream with about 50 student
places at an existing vocational school (St. Elizabeth);
d.     Strengthening MOE's data processing and text-book storage and distribution
capability; and conducting
e.     Specialized Studies.



- 3 -
D.    Project Design and Organization
4.    The project was well conceived and relatively easy to implement. The project's
central thrust both at the primary and secondary levels, was to alleviate overcrowding, which
was particularly acute in the country and had been clearly identified as a major impediment
for improving educational quality at the school level. Together with the project's other
quality-improvement provisions (textbook distribution, provision of science equipment, in-
service teacher upgrading, etc.), the project complemented and reinforced IDA's previous
investment in the country which focused on expansion of: (i) technical education (under the
Education I and III), (ii) secondary schools (Education II), and (iii) primary education
(Education III). The project was timely as it was launched shortly after a Government's
analysis of policy options had issued a report which underscored the critical importance of
investment in human resources in order to arrest the economic decline the country was
experiencing at the time.
E.    Project Implementation
5.     The project was implemented by Training for Self-Reliance Project (TSRP), a semi-
autonomous inter-ministerial body (representing the Ministries of Education, Health, Works,
and Community and Rural Development) established by the Government in 1974 to implement
the First IDA Education Project as well as other externally-assisted projects. Over the years,
TSRP had developed a basic design for primary schools, which were used with some
modification, also for secondary schools and vocational institutions. Overall, the quality of
construction was quite good. The walls consist of structural columns and masonry, using
local stone. The wooden trusses, made on site, are exposed to the interior. Transparent
panels along one side of he ridge allow light to come in from above. These elements form
together a simple, rustic, spacious and bright atmosphere in the classrooms. In order to
reduce costs and at the same time to boost community participation, many of the primary
schools were also provided with "shells", in addition to the classrooms. For these "shells",
the communities were responsible for the infill of the stone masonry between the columns, as
well for installing windows, doors and flooring. Architectural and design work was done by
TSRP staff. All civil works contracts were awarded on the basis of LCB, following IDA
guidelines and procedures for local competitive bidding. TSRP staff supervised construction
at regular intervals.
6.     The project had a cost overrun of about 24% (in dollar terms) partly as a result of the
addition by about 20% of the civil works per component, and partly on account of the
devaluation of the dollar against the SDR (Part III, Table 5). Another variance being a two-
year extension of the Closing Date from September 30, 1989 to September 30. 1991. The
Closing Date was formally extended by two years in 1989 for the following reasons: (a)
Extra time was required to construct the additional facilities that IDA had agreed to finance
using funds accruing from the devaluation of the local currency under the Third Education
Project. As a result, TSRP staff were so heavily involved in completing these additional
facilities (under the Third Project) that implementation of this project got off to a very slow
start. Thus by June 1989, only 25% of the Credit had been disbursed, with the Credit's
Closing Date only three months away in September, 1989. The project was further delayed
when the four expatriate staff in the project unit left TSRP because of disputes with the
Government regarding their terms of service. (b) In anticipation of additional "savings"
expected from further devaluation of the Maloti, IDA agreed with the Government to use
approximately SDR 1.1 million (or about 11 % of total project costs) for additional technical



- 4 -
manpower training (about 20 staff-years of fellowships and salary supplement for technical
assistance and staff), to respond to manpower shortages in the infrastructure
ministries/departments attributable to loss of technical staff to the Lesotho Highland Water
Project, which at the time was under preparation. A two-year extension of the Closing Date
was considered essential to accommodate this need. The Credit Agreement was amended
accordingly on January 5, 1990. Toward the end of the implementation period, the TSRP
realized that the anticipated "savings" did not materialize as any such savings were off set by
inflation and overall price escalation in the construction industry, and only a small portion of
the technical training for the concerned ministries/departments were actually utilized (Table
8b).
7.     Project Risks. At the time the project was appraised and launched no major risks
were anticipated, with the possible exception of MOE's weak administrative and project
implementation capacity. In retrospect, the recurrent cost implications of the project (for
instance for establishing an effective maintenance program for school facilities) should have
been give more consideration. Also the jurisdictional issues arising from ownership of the
school by mission societies not fully answerable to MOE should also have been flagged as a
potential issue. This jurisdictional issue is now being addressed under a new legislation
introduced in 1992, as part of policy reform supported by a follow-up project (Education
Sector Development Project) (Paras 11 and 13b).
F.     Major Results of the Project
8.    In strictly quantitative terms, the project has achieved or even exceeded its appraisal
targets. For instance, 342 classrooms were constructed and furnished, compared to an
appraisal target of 330 classrooms. Similarly, for secondary schools, laboratories and science
equipment were provided as planned. The warehouse for the School Supplies Unit (SBU) was
completed, also as planned. The project was also successful in attaining one of its major
qualitative objectives, that of alleviating overcrowding (Para. 3) in primary schools. For the
85 primary schools assisted under the project, class size was reduced by more than half: from
about 138 pupils per classroom at appraisal to about 61 pupils in 1991. Similarly in the case
of the 28 schools assisted by OPEC fund (under parallel financing), class size was also
reduced by more than half, from about 112 pupils per class at appraisal to about 54 students
in 1991 (Annex 5). The in-service program for primary school teachers and headmasters,
however, was less effective, particularly from the point of view of qualitative upgrading. It
was not oriented toward improving the teachers' classroom performance, interaction with their
pupils or generally on imparting effective teaching skills. Rather, the emphasis was on
raising their academic level. Following an evaluation undertaken as part of the project
activities, the in-service teacher program is being overhauled along the lines indicated above.
Quantitative data on the in-service program is provided in Part III, Table 8b). The project
was reasonably successful in improving and expanding skill training at St. Elizabeth School,
but it had at best a limited impact with respect to introducing pre-vocational subjects in
secondary schools, largely because of the lack of qualified teachers of vocational/technical
subjects (the in-service program for vocational subject teachers did not achieve its intended
output (Table 8b)).
9.     The project impact on the school system as a whole is already discernible. Using the
project school as models, communities are building classrooms throughout the country, thus
confirming the replicability and affordability of school design developed by TSRP. The SSU,
established under a preceding IDA-assisted project, continues to provide an essential service



- 5 -
in the procurement, storage and distribution of teaching materials. While there is ground for
concern in terms of its sustainability (largely on account of deficiencies in the collection of
textbook fees, and also the inadequacy of the rates charged), it is worth noting that it is one of
the very few programs in Africa aimed at a replenishing teaching materials on a sustainable
basis.
G.    Proiect Sustainability
10.    Overall the project is likely to be sustained as an integral part of the country's
educational system for the foreseeable future. The project contains some of the features
identified by OED as essential ingredients for sustainability including, simple and efficient
project design, a relatively problem-free implementation period and a strong government and
community commitment and involvement in the project institutions.I/ Lesotho has had a
long tradition of community and church involvement in the management and financing of
primary and secondary schools. Indeed, most primary and secondary schools were started by
Churches of various denominations, and the schools continue to have some kind of church
affiliation up to the present. The Government finances MOE's administrative overhead,
teachers' salaries at all levels and the recurrent expenditures of the University, or roughly
80% of the recurrent cost. The remaining 20% of recurrent cost is borne by parents (and to a
lesser extent the religious bodies) in the form of school fees. As each individual school is
expected to provide for the maintenance of buildings and equipment and generally for the
upkeep of the school, the leadership provided by the headteacher and the school board in the
collection of school fees and book rentals is a significant factor for the quality and efficiency
of the system, including the physical maintenance of school facilities as well as the availability
of instructional materials in the schools.
11.    Over the years, the partnership between the three principal actors in the management
and financing of the school system (proprietors/church authorities, communities, and the
Government) has been rather loose, ill-defined and somewhat ad hoc, In 1992, as part of the
policy reforms supported under a follow-up IDA project (Education Sector Development),
Government enacted a new legislation which is expected to streamline the functions and
responsibilities of each of the three partners and provides the government with a more
effective leverage for allocating resources on a more rational and cost-efficient manner ( eg.
appointment and posting of headteachers, sanctions for non-collection of school fees and book
rentals, etc.). These measures are expected to contribute to the sustainability of the system
as they affect directly the management and financing of the system, including the provision of
budgetary support for educational materials and for the maintenance of school equipment and
supplies.
H.    Bank Performance
12.    As noted in the Government's contribution to this report (Part II, Para. 17), Bank staff
involvement in the implementation of the project has been professional in all respects. The
Bank's supervision mission have been adequate in respect to frequency (11 missions over six
years), although as noted by the Borrower the composition of those missions could perhaps
have been strengthened by the inclusion of experts in accounting/auditing in view of the
inadequate local expertise in project accounting and the lengthy delays encountered in the
l/The Sustainability of Investment Projects in Education. OED, December 28, 1990. p. vii.



- 6 -
submission of project audits. The project implementation unit that was used for the three
previous IDA projects (TSRP) was used for this project with little (if any) modification based
on the experience of the preceding projects. While in many ways the implementation
arrangements worked reasonably well, in retrospect, IDA should have given more thought and
reassessed whether certain changes on the make-up of the TSRP Authority was necessary, to
bring about a closer integration of the TSRP unit to MOE, as noted in the Government's
contribution to this report (Part II, Para. 20).
13.    Lessons Learned. For future projects, the following lessons learned from
implementation of this project may be of value:
(a)    This project brings to the fore once again the critical importance of linking up
closely (at time even integrating) a project's implementing unit (in this case the TSRP)
with the sector Ministry responsible for the project (in this case MOE). Because of
historical circumstances, the TSRP was established from the very beginning (1974) as
an inter-ministerial board, with representation from various line ministries as well as
the Ministry of Finance. While in principle this was a commendable measure
intended to ensure coordination and cross-fertilization among the various Government
agencies involved in implementing externally financed development projects, in actual
fact, it resulted in diminishing the sense of "ownership" of the project by MOE, as
MOE became de facto as only of the several agencies which had an oversight function
over TSRP. Further, as the functions of the inter-ministerial board were not clearly
defined vis-a-vis those of the line ministries, MOE was constrained from taking the
lead in making key decisions that affected project implementation, even in areas that
were clearly in its domain (eg. selection of science equipment). MOE relations with
TSRP were needlessly constrained, and the situation could easily have deteriorated to
a much worse situation, had it not been for the non-partisan and low-keyed roles taken
by some of the expatriate staff at TSRP in serving as informal interlocutors between
MOE and TSRP. The experience of this project confirms once again the critical
importance of a close involvement by a line Ministry in the identification, design and
implementation of an investment project to foster a sense of responsibility,
commitment and "ownership" by the concerned Ministry.
(b)    The project underscores the critical importance of school management.  This
was the case not only in terms of the physical environment of the school (eg. the
tidiness of the premises, cleanliness of the classrooms, laboratories, and workshops)
but also in terms of the academic environment (the teacher's overall posture and his
skills in classroom interaction, how effectively he used his teaching resources, etc.).
The project demonstrates that school management is all the more important in the case
of Lesotho where each school is for all practical purposes individually "owned", and
as of late there was at best limited scope for Government intervention to introduce
uniform criteria for the selection and posting of headteachers. Under the recently
introduced legislation, the central government will have more authority in these
matters. The lesson to be derived from this experience is that the training, selection
and posting of school managers is of such crucial importance that it should not be left
to ad hoc arrangements and that Ministries of Education should give high priority to
school management in view of its consistently positive effect on teaching
effectiveness.



- 7 -
(c)    The project confirms the importance of orienting in-service teacher upgrading
programs toward acquisition of classroom skills and communication techniques rather
than upgrading the academic qualifications of the participating teachers. Under this
project, provision had been made to offer in-service teacher upgrading programs
(Para. 8; Section III, Table 8b) for 580 unqualified teachers and over 160
headteachers. But as noted in Para. 8 while the guantitativ targets were more or less
achieved, the programs had at best a limited success because the programs were not
sufficiently oriented toward imparting effective teaching skills and classroom
techniques. As an evaluation of the in-service program later revealed, the courses
were on the whole oriented toward helping raise the teachers' academic knowledge
rather than their teaching skills. IDA and the Government are attempting to correct
this deficiency under a follow-up project (Education Sector Development Project).
(d)    Implementation of the project was delayed by as much as three to four years
to permit TSRP staff to complete additional facilities that IDA had agreed to finance
under the Third Education Project using "savings" in that project accruing from the
devaluation of the local currency against the dollar and the SDR. The delay was such
that by June 1989, just three months before the original closing date of the project,
only 25% of the Credit had been disbursed (Para 6). In light of the Bank's familiarity
with the capacity limitations of the TSRP, the lesson to be drawn from the experience
of this project is that the processing and approval of a new operation should be
carefully synchronized with the status of implementation of an on-going operation to
avoid overstretching the borrower's implementation capacity.
I.     Borrower's Performance
14.   All major Credit covenants were complied with (Section III, Table 10), although
Government was late in submission of audit reports. On the whole the Borrower's
performance in project implementation was satisfactory, with the caveat discussed earlier
(Para. 13 (a). Also TSRP's accounting department experienced successive turnover of senior
accountants, including the Chief Accountant. As a result, the Accounts section remained
weak to the end. On the other hand, the technical department, including those involved in
site supervision, performed well. Government's performance in providing adequate
counterpart funding was commendable.
J.     Project Relationship
15.   Bank staff and officials of the Borrower involved in project implementation had a
sound and highly professional relationship. This assured not only the successful
implementation of this project, but the development of a comprehensive, policy-oriented
follow-up operation (Education Sector Development Credit).
K.    Consultant Services
16.    All architectural and site supervision services were provided by TSRP staff. The
consultants used for auditing the project accounts performed well.



- 8 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
17.   Bank's personnel sent for supervision missions were recognized as professional in all
respects. However, there were times when the composition of the supervision missions were
not quite appropriate to deal with the kind of problems (eg. project finances and accounting)
occurring within the Implementation Unit's operational capability.
18.   While the sharing of knowledge and information between the Bank and the Borrower
is accepted, there were times when the Bank delayed the procurement of science equipment by
insisting that we should consider what was produced in Zimbabwe by the Zim Science project
even after we had our science experts Zimbabwe and their finding or impressions were made
known to the Bank.2/
B.    Major Lessons Learned
19.   The lessons learned from the Borrower's perspective could be summarized as follows:
a) Communications between the Borrower and the Lender regarding credit
amendments, accounting to commitment and disbursements on credit/loan proceeds should be
well documented so that should any turn-over within either the executing agency or the
missions, such changes should not unduly affect project implementation activities.
b) The Bank as well as the borrower should scrutinize more carefully equipment lists
and other procurement documents to avoid procurement of needlessly expensive or
inappropriate equipment.
C. Evaluation of Borrower's Experience and Lessons Learned
20.   When TSRP was first initiated it was decided to place it under an inter-Ministerial
Board (or Authority). Over the years, partly because the Board/Authority did not clarify its
functions and relations with the various Ministries and agencies it represents, there was no
clarity between the roles of the Ministry of Education, and the TSRP. Sometimes matters
which should have been directed to MOE for decision-making went to Project Authority.
This made it difficult for MOE to take corrective measures when needed. In some cases,
MOE departments or sections were not aware of some of their responsibilities (eg. preparation
of equipment lists, or reviewing/commenting on school designs). Even when they were asked
to comment, their contribution was minimal. A clear example is that of primary classrooms
where there was no feedback from the proprietors and the inspectorate on design. The users,
that is the teachers, did however indicate that it would be better to have bigger classrooms as
they needed more space for movement and storage.
2/Documentary evidence could not be found in project files that supported such a statement.
Bank staff interviewed on this question stated that they are completely unaware of any such
attempts.



21.   The management of TSRP's finances was not a big problem until 1986 when contracts
of key staff in both accounts and civil works sections had to be terminated. The revised
employment terms were not acceptable to some of key staff and led to high staff turnover
which hampered smooth implementation of the project. In addition, the management became
characteristically weak and this led to a situation where supervision became inadequate.
22.   In spite of these constraints and difficulties, the project was completed with only one
extension of the Closing Date. Virtually all the quantitative targets of the project were
attained or at times even exceeded (eg. number of classrooms, staff houses and related
facilities that were constructed under the project). This was also the case with facilities
constructed and equipped with OPEC loan, which was also implemented concurrently with the
Fourth IDA project.
Lessons Learned
23.   Project management structures should be well designed by the Borrower in order to
ensure efficiency. In retrospect, the TSRP management should have played a more effective
role as a link between MOE and the project unit. The project implementation schedule should
have been made available to relevant departments in order to facilitate action on a timely
fashion. This is especially the case with regard to the preparation, review and approval of
equipment lists.
24.   The Borrower should be clear of his contribution towards the project from its very
beginning. Any changes in project costs arising in the course of implementation as a result,
for instance, of fluctuation of the US dollar, should be reviewed and agreed to before the
Borrower's next fiscal year starts. Project management should be given a very careful
consideration in order to attract high caliber and dedicated staff to ensure efficiency in project
implementation.
25.   The Borrower should make good preparations for a new project and invoice all
relevant ministries and departments at an early stage. The Ministry's departments should be
made aware of the project components and schedules during project design. Reminders
should also be made during implementation so that necessary action could be taken on a
timely manner. Relevant departments should ensure that policies supported by the project are
enforced in order to avoid situations where equipment and facilities cannot be used
afterwards.
26.   Project supervision should be streamlined during inception. The roles of all external
departments, or Ministries, should be clarified.



- 10 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Credits
Table 1: IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
I Credit No.    | Year of  | Purpose of         Status        Comments
Project Title   j Approval j Project                       j                   j
Credit 497     1974       Technical,           Completed    Except for the
LSO                       commercial, distance              distance teaching
teaching, curriculum    1979      program the
First                     development                       project's objectives
Education                                                   and targets were
Project                                                     met.
Credit 748-    1977       Secondary school     Completed    Qualitative targets
LSO                       expansion; trade                  were achieved;
testing center;      1982         however,
Second                    curriculum                        educational
Education                 development center                management and
Proj ect                  (NCDC); community                 institution building
outreach programs.                efforts were less
successful.
Credit 1148-    1981      Primary school       Completed    Primary schools
LSO                       improvement and                   expanded as
expansion;           1986         planned; vocational
Third                     vocational training               center also
Education                 facilities                        established. Weak
Project                                                     project planning and
managment
remained a
constrant
Credit 1512-    1984      Primary school       Completed    Project completed
LSO                       expansion; secondary              as planned.
upgrading; in-service  1991
Fourth                   teacher training
Education
Project



- 11 -
B. Project Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
[Item                 [_Planned Date       Revised Date       Actual Date
Identification         10/82              10/82              10/82
Preparation            2/83               2/83               2/83
Appraisal              12/83              12/83              12/83
Negotiations           6/84               6/84               6/84
Board Approval         7/84               7/84               7/84
Credit Effective       10/84              10/84              3/85
Project Completion     3/89               3/89               3/89
Closing Date           9/89              9/91                9/91
27.   Comments on Timetable. The project processing cycle was quite short; it took just
over a year between the time the project was first identified and the time it was appraised.
The subsequent phases of the project processing cycle were likewise speeded up. This was
probably in part because of Bank staff's familiarity with the country's educational system,
having been closely involved in the implementation of three projects. The project's Closing
Date was extended by two years in 1989 to allow completion of most of the project
components. The extension of the Closing Date was also intended to permit the Ministry of
Works to sponsor about 20 engineers and technicians involved in the Highland Water Project
for a two-year fellowship using "savings" that were expected to accrue from the devaluation
of the dollar against the SDR. In the end, the anticipated "savings" did not materialize and
many of the fellowships had to be canceled.
C. Loan Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
(US$ Million)
Bank FY    | 1985  I 1986  1 1987  | 1988  1 1989  |  1990  |     1991    | _1992_ l
Apprais      1.00    2.20    4.60    7.80    9.80    10.0    ---        ---
Estim.j
Actual       0.57  | 0.57    0.94    1.56    2.45    6.20    10.99     12.83
Date of             03/30/92
Final
Disbmnt



- 12 -
28.   Comments on Credit Disbursement: 80% of the Credit was disbursed during the last
two and half years of implementation (FYs 90-92). The original Credit amount was 9.7
million SDR (US$ 10 million), and the Credit was almost fully disbursed (only SDR 26.98,
resulting largely from currency fluctuation was canceled). On account of the fluctuation of the
dollar and the Maloti against the SDR, actual disbursements are shown in terms of their
historical US dollar equivalents (totaling US$ 12.6 million). Also, because of the exchange
rate fluctuations, comparisons of actual as percentage of appraisal estimate do not give a true
reflection of the situation and has been omitted from the above table. Disbursement was very
slow during the first four years of the implementation period, partly because the project unit
(TSRP) was heavily involved in finishing the Third Education period.
B. Proiect Implementation
Table 4: PLANNED AND COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
PROJECT COMPONENTS               | PLANNED         1 ACTUAL         MONTHS
|                                  | COMPLETION    COMPLETION   DELAY
I. Civil Works
a.   Primary Schools (85 school    3/88            9/91            42
sites)
b.   Secondary Schools (8 school   9/88            9/91            36
sites)
c.   Vocational Institute (one   6/88              8/90            26
school site)
d.   SSU Warehouse               --                2/89            --
II. Furniture & Equipment
a.   Primary Schools             9/91              9/91            0
b.   Secondary Schools           9/91              9/92            0-8
c.   Vocational Institute        8/90              9/90            1
d.   SSU Warehouse               2/89              5/90            15
29.   Actual completion dates refer to the date when the buildings were completed and
handed over to the users. Contractors were under liability for defects for a minimum of six
months after completing the buildings. As the SSU warehouse was included during
implementation, there was no reference in the Appraisal Report to a planned completion date.
The building was nonetheless completed 15 months after the contract period. With respect to
the secondary schools, there was a delay of 8 months for two schools; the remaining six were
completed as planned.



- 13 -
CMVIL WORKS IMPLEMENTATQON
AMOUWr F CIVIL                                   2 TEM  rIo
woaics bhwzrm
120                                                                      A ACOAL CITh
110tO.                                                                        20S t
60
70       PtM                            AMA
60
50
30
20
10
1985    1986     1967     1968     1989     1990    1991
E.    Project Costs and Financing
Table 5: PRQJECT EXPENDrrURES
(US $ Mill. Equivalent)
Category               Appraisal Estimate    |          Actual
Forg    Loc    Tot.      Forg      Loc    Total
1. Civil Works      2.9      1.9    4.8      4.9       3.2      8.1
2. Furniture &      1.3      0.4     1.7      3.2      1.7      4.9
Equipment
3. TA, Prof.        0.9      0.7    1.6       0.3      0.2      0.5
Services
4. Training         0.5      0.1    0.6        0.6      0       0.7
5. Proj. Adm.       0.2      0.5    0.7        0.9      1.0     1.9
6. Unalloc.         1.7      1.9     3.6       -        -      -
7. TOTAL            7.5      5.5    13.0       9.9     6.2      16.1



-14-
30.   Comments on Project Costs. In dollar terms, the project had a cost overrun of about
23.8%. This was primarily due to the fluctuations of the US dollar vis-a-vis the SDR during
the implementation period (US$ 16.1 million, compared to $13 million estimated at
appraisal). The fluctuation in exchange rates helped compensate to some extent for the higher
than anticipated foreign and local inflation. There was a cost overrun of about 69% on the
civil works component, 188% on furniture and equipment and slightly more than 100% in
project administration. During the implementation period the construction program was
extended by about 20% of the original civil works component). The newly added facilities
included: 84 offices, 54 kitchens, 2 staff rooms and 4 staff houses for the vocational training
and the high schools. In view of this, the overall cost overrun of about 24% was not unduly
excessive.
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
PLANNED                    ACTUAL
IDA                        10.0                        12.8
Government                  3.0                        3.5
TOTAL                      13.0                        16.1 (rounded off)
31.   Comments on Project Financing. Due to the fluctuation in the value of the US dollar
against the SDR, IDA's contribution in dollar terms to total project costs was higher (by about
26%) than estimated at appraisal. The Government's contribution too was slightly higher than
anticipated.
32.   Other Sources of Funds. During project implementation, the Bank managed other
funds from other agencies who funded in parallel primary school construction and
procurement of science equipment. The US Bureau of Refugee Affairs (ICARA) provided a
grant of about US$ 137,056 for the construction of three science laboratory facilities and their
equipment in Maseru town to help with the influx of refugees. The OPEC Fund provided a
loan of about US 1.5 million for primary school classrooms and furniture. Both the ICARA
grant and the OPEC loan were fully disbursed.



- 15 -
Table 7: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
Category        Original Alloc.     Actual        Orig.       Actual
(SDR Million)      Disburs.       Alloc.      Disburs(US
(SDR          (US $       $ Mill.)
(Million      Mill.)
1. Civil Works              3.90             4.77          4.77         6.45
(a and b)                            __ _
2. Furn/Equip/Veh.          2.80             3.29          1.72         4.42
3. TA/Studies                1.00            0.31          1.56         0.42
4. Training                  1.00            0.50          0.60         0.65
5. Oper. Costs              0.43             0.53          0.71         0.71
6. PPF/Refund               0.19             0.19          0.18         0.18
7. Unalloc.                 0.38                      |   0.39    _ _ _
TOTAL                       9.70             9.70          10.0        12.83
33.   Comments on Allocation of Credit Proceeds. The Credit was fully disbursed.a/ On
account of the depreciation of the Maloti against the SDR, the US dollar historical equivalent
was $12.83 million against the planned allocation of US $10.00 million. There were some
shifting of allocations between categories, the most conspicuous being a shift from training
and technical assistance to civil works. This was justified as the overall cost increases in the
construction industry had rendered the original allocation inadequate.
F.    Project Benefits
Table 8a: DIRECT BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
Table 8a. Enrollment and Class Size in IDA-financed Project Institutions -- Summary Table
Enrollment             Classrooms           Class size
Appraisal (1983)  Primary: 27,166        Primary: 197        Primary: 138 
Second. 2,997          Second.  *24         Second.: 125
Completion       Primary: 32,905         Primary: 539        Primary: 61l
(1991)
Second.  3,876         Second. **48         Second. 81
Notes: * Estimated from appraisal reports and Working Papers
* * Including workshops, laboratories, and library rooms.
3/A small balance, arising from currency fluctuation, totaling about 27 units of SDR was
canceled.



- 16 -
Table 8b: OVERSEAS TRAINING/FELLOWSHIPS
Planned          Actual
Overseas/In-Country Training
1. Architect/draftsmen Technicians         360 s/m           36* s/m
2. In-Service Education for Teachers (LIET)    (No. of teachers)  (No. of teachers)
a) Unqualified teachers                  600              580
b) Primary school Headteachers           200              163
c) Vocational School Teachers             85                9
3. Technician Training for Capacity Building    (Staff months)    (Staff months)
(TTCB)**
a) Engineers                             480              168
b) Water Technology                      168              168
c) Electrical Engineers-Harare           180              180
d) Electrical Engineers-RSA               36               36
Notes:       *Instead of apprenticeship training for six architectural technicians annually
for five years as planned in the SAR, the Government opted for training one
architect for three years.
"*The TTCB component was added during implementation (Para. 6).



- 17 -
Table 8c: PROJECT BENEFITS
Utilization of Technical Assistance and Expert Services
l __________________________    Planned                Actual
A. Professional Services
1. Architect. Services                   60           98
2. Construct. Supervis.                  60           46
3. Civil/Elec. Eng. Serv.                 6           14
4. Land Surveyors                         6            0
5. Quantity Surveyors                    12           12.5
Sub-total                                144          170.5
B. Project Administration
1. Procurement Officer                   12           12
2. Accountant                            24           34
Sub-total                                 36           46
C. Technical Assistance
1. Educational Planner                   8            8
2 Training Specialist                   36           43
3. Voc. Manpower Speci.                  9            9
4. Eval. Specialist                      10           8
Sub-total                                63           68
34.    Comments on Project Benefits. As indicated in Para.3, one of the primary objectives
of the project was to improve the learning environment by relieving the excess classroom
overcrowding that was prevalent at the time. As can,be seen from Table 8a, through the
construction of additional classroom and related facilities, for the proiect institutions, class
size at the primary school level was reduced by more than half, from an average of 138 at
appraisal to about 61 students at the time of project completion. similarly, at the secondary
level it was reduced from about 125 to 81. In the case of the 28 schools financed by OPEC
and were constructed concurrently with schools financed by IDA, class size was reduced from
about 112 in 1983 to 54 in 1991 (Annex 5). Details on primary school enrollment by project
institutions are shown in Annexes 1-2. Additionally, all the laboratories, equipment, and
workshops, planned in the SAR were constructed as planned. It also alleviated excessive
overcrowding in some of dormitories, particularly in vocational schools. The bulk of
technical assistance and expert services went for professional and architectural services. And
in the area of training, the in-country training of unqualified teachers was implemented, but
with less than the desired success as the training was not targeted to improving the teachers'
classroom skills, but was rather skewed to improving their academic skills. This weakness



- 18 -
has been rectified to a large extent in the follow-up project. The TTCB component of
overseas training was included during implementation, but was not fully implemented, on
account of shortage of funds (Para. -).
Table 9: PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose Defined at         Status       Use of Study
Appraisal
1. Survey of school    Intended to help MOE    Completed       Used for establishing
facilities and        prepare an implantation    1983          data base for
development of        strategy for                             improving school
improved school       implementing the                         design.
designs.              Govt's education Sector
review
2. Survey of school    To gather and assess    Completed       Study helped in
facilities; and staff  data on staff and         1983          identifying secondary
utilization           resource utilization                     school component.
3. Evaluation of      To evaluate existing in-  Completed      Evaluation of
existing in-Service   service program and to     1989          ongoing program
training and          design improvements.                     assisted in
preparation for new                                            introducing more
in-service programs                                            effective programs.
4. Structure and      To assess the            Completed       Used as a basis for a
Operation of MOE      effectiveness of the       1991          follow-up project
operation, NSU.
5. Development of    To develop effective      Completed       Used for Self-
Self-Reflection skills   classroom teaching      1991          Evaluation of
among Primary         environment and                          Teachers'
School Teachers       strategies.                              performance.
6. TSRP Resource      To evaluate              Completed       Used to re-organize
Transfer              improvements in           1991           TSRP as an integral
l____________________ project implementation                   part of the MOE.
35.    The first three studies were identified and agreed upon between IDA and the
Government. The studies were financed from an advance from a Project Preparation Facility
PPF). The studies were used essentially as in-puts for the preparation of the project, and in
the case of the third study (Evaluation of In-service teacher programs), also to monitor the
effectiveness of that particular component of the project and to recommend improvements.
The fourth and fifth studies were added in the course of project implementation, mainly as
part of project preparation for the follow-up project. On the whole, the studies were
completed as planned and were used for their intended purposes.



- 19 -
G.    Status of Credit Covenants
Table 10: COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
Section                   Covenant               Status of Compliance
Para. 3.03 (b) (d)        Government to          Met Fully;
prepare periodically   Govt. submitted periodic
progress report on    progress reports and
project               prepared Section II of the
implementation and a   PCR
final project at project
completion
Para. 3.08 (a)            Borrower to submit     Complied with fully
for IDA review, draft
curricula for St.
Elizabeth vocational
school
Para 3.09                 Borrower to submit    Complied with fully
for IDA review action
plan for staffing
NTTC
Para. 4.01 (a-c)          Borrower to maintain   Project accounts not
separate account for    maintained systematically
project expenditures    due to frequent turnover
and to have accounts   of accountants. Audits
audited yearly and to   not always submitted on
submit audit to the   time, . Govt.'s auditor
Bank also annually    found some of the reports
not sufficiently
responsive.
Para. 3.11                Ministry of Public     Not complied with.
Works to assign two    Ministry of Works never
full-time architects to   assigned two architects, as
the Project Office    agreed.



- 20 -
Table 11: STAFF IN-PUT BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF
STAGE OF THE               PLANNED       (   REVISED       [   ACTUAL
PROJECT CYCLE                            ------
HQ        Field     HQ      Field     HQ       Fiel
Through Appr.           71.8    15.5      71.8    15.5      71.8    15.5
Appraisal--Board       21.0      3.0      21.0    3.0       21.0      3.0
Board--Effect.          8.3      0.5      8.3      0.5      8.3       0.5
Supervision            70.5    42.0       70.5    42.0      70.5    42.0
36.   Comments on Staff Inputs. Staff inputs at the various stages of the project cycle
was reasonably well-balanced. Adequate staff-time was expended on field supervision
(ten missions in about 6 years). On the whole those missions were well appreciated
for their cooperative approach and professional advice and guidance. As the
Government's contribution to this report indicates, in retrospect, the field visits could
have been even more effective had staff with auditing/accounting expertise been
included at critical junctions of the implementation period when issues of project
accounts and financing were under review.



- 21 -
Table 12: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Mission       Month/  No. of persons 1/              Staff-   Performance
year                                  weeks  Status by Activity
in the   2/
Field
Identif.      10/82     1 (EDC)                      2
Preparation    2/83    3 (EDC,VEDC,ADA)              6
Prep.Review    6/83    5 (2EDC,VEDC,CEC,ARC)         7.5
Appraisal     12/83    2 (EDC,ARC)                   3
TOTAL                      18.5
G    P    M    F
Superv. I     9/84     2 (EDC,ARC)                   2       1   1   1   1
Superv. II    4/85     2 (EDC,ARC)                   2       1   1   1   1
Superv. III    10/85    2 (ADA,ARC)                  4       1   1   1   1
Superv. IV    5/86     2 (ADA,ARC)                   2       2   1   3   1
Superv. V     3/87     3 (ARC,VEDC,ADA)              2       2    1   1   1
Superv. VI    8/87     2 (CEC,VEDC)                  1.5     2   2   2   2
Superv. VII   5/88      1 (ARC)                      1       3    1   2   1
Superv. VIII   6/89    2 (CEC,ARC)                   1.5     2   2    1   1
Superv. IX    11/89    2 (ARC,EDC)                   2        2   2   2   1
Superv. X     5/90      1(ARC)                       1       2    1   2   3
Superv. XI    11/90    3(EDC,2ARC)                   3        1   1   2   1
1/ EDC=Education specialist; VEDC=Vocational Education Specialist;
ADA = Administrative Assistant; ARC = Architect; CEC = Country/Sector economist.
2/ G=General Status; P=Procurement; M=Management; F=Financial (Availability of
Funds).



- 22 -
Annex 1
1 of 4
Comparison of Enrollment and Available Facilities at Appraisal
and at Completion in Project Primary Schools
ENROLLMENT                    FACILITIES
SCHOOL           1983          1991         Existing   New       Hall
ClassRo   Class
oms       Rooms
Thaba Tseka            508          690           4          5          1
Katlehong              140          228           3          5         --
Sefapanong             266           387           1         3          1
Mohlanapeng            239          302           2          2          1
Likalaneng             269          260            1         4          1
Leqhekoana             301          235          |           4          1
Makunyapane            120           178         r-          2          1
Linakeng               218          261            -         2          1
Litsoetse              166          341          |           2          1
Sehonghong             292          404           2          3          1
Mashai                 305          491           2          3          1
Bocheletsane           687          788           1          8          1
Mantsonyane            273          262           2          3          1
Mohlakaoatuka          610          619           1          6          1
Thabanatsoana          262          474           1          4          1
Meshaka                358          331           1          4          1
Tsosane                1325          1127         16         16         1
Jno                    289          488           2          4          1
Metolong               362          246           3          4          1
Ratau                  280          345           1          4          1
St. Marks              422          588           7          4          1
Khomolileng            262          286           --         4          1



- 23 -
Annex 1
2 of 4
Sekhohola             191           262                     4          1
Semena                298           376           1         4          1
Thota Peli             197          287           --        5          --
Masoeling             324           404           1         5          1
Bitso Lebe            393           506           4         6          --
Mapeleng              444           537           5         5          0
Mokonyana             200           318           3         3          1
Hoohlo                550           783           6         3          1
Makebe                 120          236           1         4          1
Mokhotlong            236           376           1         4          1
Seeiso                 156          200           1         4          1
Mojakisane            208           223           1         4          1
Tseko                 317           351           2         4          1
Molumong              362           291           4         3          1
Tsoenene              244           318           1         4          1
Corn Exchange         320           284           4         3          1
Bakaneng              480           605           3         4          1
Menyameng             318           436           1         4          1
Mokomahatsi           374           399           3         5          --
Bela Bela             519           717           -         4          1
Mapholaleng           420           509           4         4          1
Mabuleng              211           176           --        3          1
Nkotoane               172          261           2         3          --
Posc (Bafali)          186          164           2         3                 E
Senkoase               182          196           1         3          1
Nokong                510.          591           5         7          1
Pheellong             290           314           1         3          1
Rooijane               181          310           --        3          1
St. Francis           604           670           10        3          1



- 24 -
Annex 1
3 of 4
Rankakala             383           353           3         3          1
Mei                    176          256           1         4          1
St. Martins           234           208           4         3          1
Malingoaneng          331           331           4         3          1
Sekhalabateng         275           202           -         4          -
Holy Rosary           211           263           --        3          1
Qomoqomomg            517           907           2         6          1
Moyeni                558           647           6         5          1
Makatseng              199          269           --        3          1
Patlong               309           409           2         3          1
Mampiletso            293           265           1         4          1
Phoku                 363           414           2         3          1
Paramente             429           436           5         4          1
Manamela              407           489           4         3          1
Tsalemoleka           215           374           2         3          1
Muela                 325           414           3         3          1
Malefiloane           356           322           2         5          1
Lepatoa               260           252           3         4          1
Thakabanna            245           308           2         3          1
Monontsa               196          225           1         3          1
Mechachaneng          327           399           2         5          --
Jane                  206           279           3         3          1
Khatibe               617           739           7         4          1
Lebesa                171           239           1         3          1
Makokoane             843           981           3         6          1
Shishla               212           226           --        4          1
Pela Tsoeu             148          158           --        4          1
Malibamatso           217           211           --        4          1
St. Dominic           450           450           5         5          --



- 25 -
Annex 1
4 of 4
Theko                  183           241          2          3          --
Bobete                 228           305          2          4          1
Makhuleng              153           178         l
Samuel                 162           188         | 2         4          1
Mokoanyane             431           832          8          5          1
|       TOTAL           27,166        32,905        197       346        66



- 26 -
Annex 2
IDA Secondary/High Schools
Schools                 Enrollment
1983         1991
1.    Maseru High School                 431           663
2.    Masianokeng High                   429           564
3.    Hareeng High School                198 (1984)    195
4.    Assumption High School             302           482
5.    St. Mary's High School             395           540
6.    St. James High School              346           438
7.    St. John's High School             352           417
8.    St. Michael's High School          349           412
9.    St. Elizabeth                      125           165 *
Totals                        2,997         3,711
* Vocational School



- 27 -
Annex 3
Names of Officials Met During Mission
1.   Dr. L.B.B. Machobane              Minister of Education
2.    Mr. K. Matete                    Principal Secretary, MOE
3.    Mrs. M. Motselebane              Sr. Planning Officer, MOE
4.    Mr. P.N. Fanana                  Sr. Economist, Min. of Finance
5.    Mrs. A. N. Seitlheko             Principal Education Officer
6.    Mrs. M. Makakole                 Planning Officer, MOE
7.    Mr. L.C. Mofelehetsi             Acting Director, TSRP
8.    Mr. S. N. Jha                    Coordinating Architect, TSRP
9.    Mr. A. S. Sivam                  Contracts Manager, TSRP
10.   Mr. T. Sekhamane                  Director, NTTC
11.   Mr. Sekonyela                     Dep. Director, NTTC
12.   Prof. V.M. Bam                   In-Service Advisor, NTTC
13.   Mr. M.A. Sello                    Procurement Officer
14.   Mr. A.T. Khobane                  Acting Finance Manager
15.   Mr. C.T. Sehlabi                  Manager, School Supplies Unit
16.   Mrs. M.R. Matsela                 Principal Accountant, SSU
Names of Institutions Visited (Partial List)
1.   St. Mary's High School
2.    St. John's High School
3.    St. Elizabeth Vocational Training School
4.    Hareeng High School
5.    St. Michael High School
6.    Assumption High School
7.    Maseru High School
8.   Ngope Tsoeu Primary School
9.    St. Anthony Primary School
10.   Sereong Primary School
11.   Tsosane Primary School
12.   Sefika High School



- 28 -
Annex 4
List of Progress Reports Submitted by TSRP
1.    June, 1986    Details of Civil Works as of 20 June 1986
2.    June, 1987    TSRP Consolidated Statement of Accounts as of March 30, 1986
3.     Feb. 1987    TSRP Annual Report
4.     Mar. 1987    TSRP Architect's Progress Report
5.     Aug. 1987    Progress Report as of July 1987
6.     Sep. 1987    TSRP Half-Yearly Report
7.     Mar. 1988    TSRP Half-Yearly Report
8.     Sept. 1988    TSRP Half-Yearly Report
9.     April 1989    TSRP Half-Yearly Report
10.   June 1989      Audit Report for the TSU for Year ended 31 Dec. 1986
11.   June 1989      Audit Report for the TSU for Year ended 31 Dec. 1987
12.   June 1989      Audit Report for the TSU for Year ended 31 Dec. 1988
13.    Sep. 1989     TSRP Half-Yearly Report
14.    March 1990   TSRP Half-Yearly Report
15.    April 1990    TSRP Architect's Progress Report
16.   July 1990      TSRP Architect's Progress Report
17.    Sep. 1990     TSRP Half-Yearly Report
18.   Jan. 1991      Audit Report for TSRP for Year ended 31st March 1989
19.   Feb. 1991      Audit Report for TSRP for Year ended 31st March 1990
20.    March 1991   TSRP Architect's Progress Report
21.    Oct. 1991     Audit Report for TSRP for Year ended 31st March 1991
22.    Dec. 1991     Report on TSRP Resources Transfer to MOE



- 29 -
Annex 5
List of Primary Schools Enrollment and Classroom Facilities Financed by OPEC Fund
1983 - 1991
ENROLLMENT                             CLASSROOMS
SCHOOL               1983               1991              Existing      Hall          New
Classrooms                  (mcin
_______ _______ _______ _______ __  ____ ______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _____ S hS h el s)
Seetsa                           138               422              -             1              7
Nkoeng                           78                179              2             -              4
Potsane                         333                326              -             1              6
Pont Main                       793                804              14            -              6
Thaba Phatsoa                    441               512              3              1             4
Holy Trinity                    451                732              2             I              7
Mahobong                         762              1,044             5             -              5
Lesiamo                         438                503              4                            6
Bolahla                         448                498              I                            6
Tsimatsi                         420               568              3             -              4
Pulane                          266                304              -             1              4
Mohatlane                       306                455              3             -              4
Marka Lisiu                     222                272              -              1             4
Machakela                        262               164              4             -              4
Thaba Chitja                     329               344              2             1              4
Popanyane                       315                363              3             -              4
St. Gerard                      498                523              4             1              4
Ngope Tsoeu                      189               215                            1              4
Lichecheng                       196               216              2             1              3
Rapoleboca                       161               166              -             -              4
St. Benedict                    461                492              3             1              3
Hlajoane                        397                428              4             1              4
Mapoteng                        668                905              tO             1             6
Ntloanatsoana                   276                325              -             -              7
Piting                           678               840              6              1             4
Seroeng                         212                332                            -              5
Bokong                           190               326              2             1              8
St. Anthony                     258                235              3             -              4
Class Size                       112                54             NA             NA            NA
TOTAL (Enrollment)             10,864            12,493             81            16            135






