Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P3828-LSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 9.7 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
JULY 10, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY'EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =            Maloti (M) 1
US$0.83                              M 1.00
US$1.00                             M 1.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                                    3.28 feet
1 square meter (i2)           =            10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                           0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)    -              0.3861 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                             2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                            2.2046
1 metric ton                               2,205
GLOSSARY'OF ACRONYMS
APTC   -    Advanced Primary Teacher Certificate
CTI    -    Commercial Training Institute
IEMS   -    Institute of Extra-Mural Studies
LDTC   -    Lesotho Distance Teaching Center
LIPA   -    Lesotho Institute of Public Administration
LIET   -    Lesotho In--Service Education for Teachers
LOIC   -    Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center
LTI    -    Lerotholi Technical Institute
MOE    -    Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture
MOW    -    Ministry of- Works
NTTC   -    National Teacher Training College
PTC    -    Primary Teacher Certificate
STC    -    (Junior) Secondary Teacher Certificate
TSRP   -    Training for Self Reliance Project
(Project Implementation Unit)
TSU    -    Teacher Service Unit
TTS    -    Technician Training School
KINGDOM: OF LESOTHO
FISCAL YEAR
Apri:L 1 through March 31
1 Maloti are at par and circu:Late side by side with the Rand, South
Africa's currency.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:                 SDR 9.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:
Objective:              The project is designed to assist the Government in
its efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of
its education system, and to meet identified
manpower shortages, in particular, in the
business/commercial field.
Components:             The project would consist of the following:
(a) provision of about 330 primary school
classrooms, including furniture and equipment,
primarily to house existing classes lacking adequate
facilities: also pit latrines would be provided at
the proposed new sites and at about 50 additional
existing sites; (b) in-service training programs for
about: (i) 600 unqualified primary teachers,
(ii) 200 primary school principals, (iii) 85
vocational teachers, (iv) 120 secondary school
principals during school vacations, and (v) 6
architectural technicians per annum (total of about
30) who would work within the project implementation
unit; (c) at the secondary level, upgrading of
facilities and equipment in eight existing schools
to better accommodate existing enrollments,
supplementary equipment at 13 schools to maximize
the use of existing facilities, and supply only of
science equipment to 70 other schools inadequately
equipped; (d) establishment of a business/commercial
stream for about 50 students; (e) support for the
Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture to
strengthen its data processing capacity and textbook
and equipment distribution system; and
(f) specialized studies.
Benefits:               The project would provide an improved learning
environment for about 16,500 primary school
students, in-service training for about 1,000
primary and secondary school teachers, and
principals, and about 30 architectural technicians.
Secondary education would be improved through
provisions of facilities and science equipment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
No major risks are anticipated. However, the
institutional weakness of the Ministry of Education
may lead to delayed implementation of the project
and recently approved sector policies. Technical
assistance and close supervision by IDA staff would
minimize this risk. In addition, the problem of
timely availability of counterpart project futiding
would be minimized by establishing a Project Advance
Account.



(iii)
Project Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
------- US$ million 
Primary Education                                 1.53     2.39        3.92
Secondary Education                              0.51      1.16        1.67
Vocational Education                              0.13     0.25        0.38
In-service Training                               0.23     0.94        1.17
Institutional Support                            0.08      0.18        0.26
Specialized Studies                              0.03      0.14        0.17
Professional Services                            0.67      0.44        1.11
Project Administration                           0.50      0.25        0.75
Base Cost                                      3.68      5.75        9.43
Contingencies:
Physical                                       0.28      0.39        0.67
Price                                          1.58      1.32        2.90
Sub-total                                    1.86      1.71        3.57
Total Project Cost                                5.54      7.46      13.00
(of which taxes                                 =!= 
and duties)                                  (0.39)      -        (0.39)
Financing Plan:
IDA                                             2.54      7.46       10.00
Government                                      3.00       -          3.00
Total (including
taxes and duties)                             5.54      7.46       13.00
=        =             =......... . .
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA FY               1985   1986   1987   1988    1989    1990
… ___________---…US$ million--------------
Annual                1.00   1.20   2.40   2.80    2.40    0.20
Cumulative           1.00   2.20   4.60   7.40    9.80   10.00
Appraisal
Report:    No. 5020-LSO
Map: No. IBRD 18114






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE FRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A FROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for SDR 9.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) on
standard terms to the Kingdom of Lesotho to help finance a Fourth Education
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent Economic Memorandum on Lesotho (No.4415-LSO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983. Country data
are presented in Annex I.
3.        Lesotho is a small, landlocked country surrounded by the Republic
of South Africa with which it has ideological differences but with which it
must co-exist. It is mountainous, and other than abundant water and small
diamond deposits, it possesses few natural resources. About 13 percent of
its 30,400 sq km is suitable for crop farming, but only 0.4 percent is
considered as having high potential. Productivity in crop farming is low
due to poor land quality and inappropriate technological packages.
Livestock raising is the country's principal agricultural activity, but
overstocking and inadequate herd management has led to overgrazing,
widespread soil erosion and limited production. Agriculture is still the
leading sector of the economy, however, providing employment and livelihood
for nearly 85 percent of the resident population. Development of a modern
industrial sector is limited by (a) the smallness of the domestic market,
(b) the proximity of the highly industrialized South African economy, which
supplies Lesotho with most of the goods and services it requires, (c) a
shortage of skilled entrepreneurial, managerial and technical manpower, and
(d) the necessity of importing nearly all raw materials and intermediate
goods. Consequently, manufacturing is a small sector of the economy.
4.        The most significant characteristic of Lesotho's economy is its
heavy dependence on South Africa where more than 90 percent of its imports
originate, as do all of its electricity and most of its foreign investment
and tourism. Its only outlets to the sea are via South Africa's transport
facilities and ports. About one-half of the male labor force depends upon
employment in South Africa (mainly in mining) and remittances of migrant



- 2 -
workers constitute over 40 percent of Lesotho's GNP; and over 70 percent of
Government revenues are derived from receipts from the Southern Africa
Customs Union under which South Africa levies, collects and redistributes
customs duties and taxes on behalf of the member countries (Botswana,
Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland).  In addiltion, Lesotho is a member of
the Rand Monetary Area (RMA). While this arrangement guarantees payment of
Lesotho's foreign financial commitments, it liLmits its use of monetary
policy instruments. On balance, however, given Lesotho's size, location
and resource constraints, the gains from membership in the Customs Union
and the RMA far outweigh its costs.
5.        Despite constraints on its development, Lesotho's economy grew
rapidly in the 1970s. Real GDP rose by about 7 percent per annum since the
mid-1970s, and as a result of increasing employment and wages for Basotho
in South Africa, real GNP expanded by about nine percent per annum. The
gains in domestic output were the result primarily of large increases in
public investment and in the provision of government services. Tourism and
mining also contributed significantly to economic growth, the former owing
to an increasing number of visitors from South Africa and the latter
resulting from the opening of a new diamond mine (which has since been
closed down). The industrial and agricultural sectors, on the other hand,
expanded only modestly since the mid-1970s.
6.        The growth in public expenditure in recent years was made
possible by increased external assistance, and by a substantial rise in
receipts from the Customs Union. The receipt of external grants, Customs
Union transfers and workers remittances permitted a level of imports
sufficient for the needs of the domestic economy, and Lesotho's balance of
payments registered a small yearly surplus throughout the late 1970s.
7.        Lesotho's economic prospects for the rest of the 1980s are at
best uncertain.  Receipts from the Customs Union are expected to decline as
a result of declining imports, as is ext(ernal development assistance, which
will require a cutback in public investment. No significant surge in
private investment is foreseen, given the resource constraints in
agriculture, industry and mining and also because of the unfavorable
political climate. At the same titme, the outlook for Basotho employment in
South Africa is bleak. The number of Basotho workers in South African
mines declined from about 130,000 iin 1977/78 to 120,000 in 1981/82, and the
downward trend is likely to contintue due to South Africa's policy of
increasing employment of domestic labor, the depressed prices of metals and
increased mechanization of the mines, thus lowering the demand for
unskilled, and hence new recruits f-rom Lesotho.
8.        As a result of the Government's expansionary fiscal policy in the
early 1980s, consumption rose from 96 percent of GNP in 1977/78 to 106
percent in 1981/82 and the recurrenit account budget moved from a surplus to
a cleficit and the overall deficit rose from 8.0 percent of GDP in 1975/76
to 23.4 percent in 1981/82. Much of the deficit was financed by short-term
loans which led to a sharp rise in debt service payments.



- 3 -
9.        One of the most challenging tasks facing the Government is how to
provide domestic employment and income opportunities for the rapidly
growing labor force. Of the 500,000 domestic labor force in 1980, only
41,000, or eight percent were employed in the wage sector. An estimated
18,000 persons will enter the labor force each year in the 1980s, most with
little in the way of education or skills. With the modern sector expected
to provide jobs for only a small number of the new entrants to the labor
force during this decade, the agricultural sector will have to absorb the
balance, notwithstanding its own limitations.
10.       The Government now recognizes the seriousness of the crisis in
the economy and is making efforts to contain the problem. Consequently,
since fiscal year 1982/83, it has instituted measures to tighten financial
management by monitoring more carefully the fiscal performance of operating
ministries, freezing employment in the civil service and cutting back on
the capital budget. As a result, the deficit was reduced to M 72.5 million
(9.5 percent of GNP) that year. In addition, the Government is actively
pursuing measures to increase revenues by improving the administration of
existing taxes and finding new sources of revenue such as the sales tax,
which was introduced in December 1982, and is expected to yield about
M 12-15 milion in 1983/84. The austerity measures, together with
substantial increases in Customs Union revenues, led to a further reduction
of the overall budget deficit to M 22 million in 1983/84 and short-term
external commercial debt from M 37 million to M 6 million.  In 1984/85, the
sales tax has been increased from five to six percent; liquor taxes have
been increased; and user charges for a wide range of government services
have been introduced.
11.       In order to achieve its objective of building a more self-reliant
economy, the Government also must strengthen its development management
capability; make agriculture more productive; raise employment and income
earning opportunities; develop human resources; control population growth;
rehabilitate its transport infrastructure; and develop its most abundant
natural resource -- water.
12.       The Government is reviewing its development planning institutions
with a view to reorganizing and improving them. In the agricultural
sector, research results so far seem to have proved the viability of
growing high-value crops for export. However, further studies are needed
to determine appropriate marketing arrangements. In livestock, the problem
of overgrazing and over-stocking needs to be properly addressed. The
industrial sector is not likely to contribute significantly to income and
employment generation, given the competition from the RSA and the small
domestic market. However, limited prospects exist for export-oriented
manufactures which have yet to be fully explored. In other areas, the Bank
Group is assisting or planning to assist improvements of the existing
highway and rural road network, basic education and technical and
vocational training, and delivery of basic health services and family
planning.
13.       By far the most promising development prospect in Lesotho's
economy is the exploitation of its abundant water resources, for the sale
of water to South Africa and for hydro-electricity generation for domestic
consumption. In order to tap this resource, Lesotho has proposed a



- 4 -
Highlands Water Project on which feasibility studies are currently
underway. The project is estimated to cost about US$1.4 billion. Although
the feasibility studies are not yet comtpletedi, preliminary indications are
that Lesotho may earn more than double its present export earnings
(excluding migrant workers' remittances) from the sale of water. About 212
gwh of electricity per year may be generated. Other benefits of the
project would be employment for about 2,000 workers during the construction
period and possible use of the water for irrigated agriculture. The first
phase of the project is expected to be completed in 1995 and the third and
final phase in 2012.
14.       As a "least developed country", with limited potential for
generating domestic revenues, Lesotho depends almost entirely on external
assistance to finance its development program.  Grants, mainly from
bilateral sources, constitute about 60 percent of total external capital
assistance and the balance consists of loans on soft terms. IDA is the
largest single source of multilateral assistance. As of December 1982, of
the US$140 million total external public debt, disbursed and outstanding,
US$40 million, or 29 percent, were IDA credits. However, service payments
on IDA credits totalled only US$0.3 million, or four percent of Lesotho's
total service payments of US$8 million on mecdium and long-term debt.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
15.        The Bank Group's first operation in Lesotho -- a US$4.1 million
credit for a highway construction project -- was approved in 1966, two
years before the country (then known as Basutoland) became an independent
kingdom. To-date, IDA has made 12 credits, totalling US$70 million 1 ,
which have financed three projects in highways, two in agriculture, three
in education, two in industrial development and one each in water supply
and urban development.  In addition, the Bank is acting as executing agency
for UNDP'financed technical assistance for strengthening the Government's
development planning organization and for assisting the Government to
supervise preparation of the proposed Highlands Water Project (para. 13).
Also, IDA is supervising an agricuiltural marketing and credit project on
behalf of the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).  IFC
has made one investment of US$330,000 in a quarrying operation.  Summary
statements on IDA credits and IFC investments are provided in Annex II.
16.       Lesotho's performance in implementing IDA-assisted projects has
been mixed.  While, until recently, highway and education projects have had
relatively few problems, projects in other sectors, particularly in
agriculture, have encountered serious problems due to ineffective
coordination within Government ancd delays in appointing project staff.  In
addition, the disbursement rate oIn IDA credits, which hitherto had been
1 Excludes a US$15.2 million credit for the Fourth Highway
Project, approved on May 24, 1984, but not yet effective.



significantly higher than the Eastern Africa Regional and Bank-wide
averages (e.g., in FY78, 41 percent for Lesotho and 23 percent for the
Eastern Africa Region, and 21 percent Bank-wide), has slowed down
considerably since FY79 because of a shortage of budgetary funds which is
making it difficult for the Government to prefinance project expenditures
which are reimbursed subsequently by IDA. As a result, from FY79 to FY82
the disbursement rate on credits to Lesotho averaged about 15 percent per
annum compared with 20 percent for the Eastern African Region and 22
percent Bank-wide. The Government has instituted measures to resolve the
budget crisis by tightening financial management in the public
sector (para. 10). In IDA-assisted projects, technical assistance is being
provided and local staff trained to strengthen project implementing
agencies and also, where appropriate, revolving funds are being established
to obviate the need for prefinancing by the Government of local
expenditures financed by IDA.
17.       During the next five years or so, the Bank Group expects to
continue to support the Government's development objectives of expanding
domestic employment opportunities, increasing and diversifying agricultural
production, developing human resources through training and provision of
basic health services and control of population growth, and developing the
country's water resources. To this end, the Bank Group plans to lend for
projects in agriculture, basic education and technical/vocational training,
health and family planning, industrial development and for the proposed
Highlands Water Project. The Bank's macro-economic and sector work program
is designed to support this lending strategy.
PART III -- THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview
18.       Lesotho's education system is a joint venture between the
Government and church organizations, with the latter operating 97 percent
of the primary and 86 percent of secondary schools. The majority of church
schools are located on land owned by the nation and granted to church
organizations for education purposes. At present, the Government does not
have the resources to take over totally the cost of operating these
schools. However, the Government is responsible for policy and budget
matters (para. 19). Without such cooperation, Lesotho would not have
achieved its present level of literacy (about 52 percent) which is
significantly higher than the averages for middle income countries in
Africa south of the Sahara (37 percent) and also in North Africa and the
Middle East (43 percent). The education system suffers from problems which
include a decline in quality; high drop-out and repetition rates; poor
facilities and staffing at the primary and secondary levels; high cost to
Government and parents; weak management and professional supervision; and
lack of effective quality control owing to the nature of examinations and
of continuous assessment used to determine pupils' achievement.



- 6-
Administration and Structure
19.       The administrative, financial and academic control of the formal
education system is vested in the Ministry c,f Education, Sports and Culture
(MOE). MOE trains and appoints teachers, administers examinations, reviews
and authorizes curricula, regulates the opening and closing of schools,
inspects the operation of all schools, and pays teachers' salaries.
Although the National University of Lesotho is administered by an
independent council, MOE provides the bulk of its recurrent budget and is
represented on its council.  Additional specialized training programs are
operated by the Ministries of Agricultuire and Marketing, of Trade, Industry
and Tourism, of Cooperatives and Rural Development, and of Health, the
Prime Minister's Office, and the Lesotho National Development Corporation
in the industrial sector. The basic education system consists of seven
years of primary education, five years of secondary school (three years of
junior secondary and two of senior secondary) and four to six years of
higher education.
20.       MOE's Planning Unit is responsible for the preparation of
long-term plans and policies, administr-ation of the capital budget, and the
preparation and review of proposed education projects. Major achievements
during the last two years have been the completion of a school mapping
exercise, the computerization of education statistics and the carrying out
of an Education Sector Survey. The sector survey's report, published in
November 1982, reviewed the education system and set forth the objectives
and policies providing the country with a long-awaited education strategy.
The crucial step now is the implementat:ion of the proposed strategy. A
major result of the survey was the enactment of a new Education Act (July
1983) which provides for, inter alia, the establishment of a unified
Teaching Service Commission under; MOE's control, replacing church
organizations as teacher employers.
21.       The National Curriculum Development Division, created in 1975, is
responsible for the review of curricula, adaptation of syllabi and training
of teachers. During the last three years, with external assistance, the
Division has updated the English, Sesotho and mathematics syllabi. Work is
continuing on other subjects.
22.       Primary Education (grades 1-7) is conducted in Sesotho (the
national language) for the first four years and mainly in English in grades
5-7. In 1982, total gross enrollments were about 278,000,equivalent to 123
percent of the female and 102 percent of the male population aged 6 to 12.
About 30 percent of the primary enrollments vere overaged students. The
age of entry is dropping rapidly and more maLes are attending school. For
example, in 1975 females outnumbered males by almost 50 percent, while in
1982, they outnumbered them by only 14 percent.
23.       In an effort to improve the quality of the education system, in
1980, automatic promotion was replaced by a s,ystem of continuous assessment
which requires a regular testing and recordinig of pupils' achievements
based on curriculum objectives. In 1982, onLy about 27 percent of the
pupils who had in 1975 started the first grade were in the seventh grade



- 7 -
and had taken the final national examination. About 72 percent passed the
primary completion examination, while about 43 percent of these entered
junior secondary schools.
24.       In 1982, with a primary school teaching force of 5,295 (all
Basotho), the teacher-pupil ratio was 1:48. About 36 percent of the
teachers were unqualified. To assist in the improvement of the quality of
the teaching staff, an in-service training program for unqualified teachers
is being operated jointly by the National Teacher Training College (NTTC)
and the Lesotho Distance Teaching Center (LDTC). This program would be
supported under the proposed project.
25.       General Secondary Education (grades 8-12) had a total enrollment
of about 29,000 in 1982 (60 percent girls), the equivalent of about 20
percent of the population aged 13-17. Of the general secondary
enrollment, 83 percent were in junior secondary courses, of whom 23 percent
were boarders. The language of instruction is English. In 1982, 1,314
secondary school teachers (about 30 percent unqualified) were employed,
resulting in a teacher/student ratio of 1:21. As in primary education, an
in-service training program is being carried out to improve teachers'
qualifications and skills. Largely due to the lack of a well-formulated
expansion policy, the number of general secondary schools has increased
rapidly, from 60 schools in 1975 to 108 in 1982. This uncontrolled
expansion has led to poor results in the General Secondary Junior
Certificate (JC) and the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC)
examinations.
26.       Vocational and Technical Education.  In 1982, enrollments in
vocational courses were about 1,600, of which over one-third were in home
economics, one-fourth in construction trades, and smaller numbers in motor
mechanics, electrical engineering, secretarial, business and administrative
skills, etc. The courses were offered in eleven junior secondary-level
schools and five senior secondary-level schools, as well as in the Lesotho
Opportunities Industrialization Center (LOIC) which provides vocational
on-the-job training experience, work counselling, and placement
assistance. Technical education is offered at the Eblytechnic (located at
the Lesotho Technical Institute (LTI) campus) which comprises the
Technician Training School (TTS), which offers diploma courses in civil,
mechanical and electrical engineering and architecture, and the Commercial
Training Institute (CTI) which offers business courses. The 1blytechnic's
graduates, who are in short supply, are in high demand by industry and
other employers such as the Ministry of Works.
27.       Agricultural education is offered at the post-primary level at
six Farmer Training Centers (180 students in total), and at the certificate
and diploma levels, at the Lesotho Agricultural College (LAC). In 1982,
LAC enrolled about 170 students in rural domestic economy, general
agriculture (diploma-level), agricultural engineering and forestry.
28.       Training of primary and junior secondary school teachers is
provided by NTTC. The college offers three courses leading respectively to
the Primary Teacher Certificate (PTC), the Advanced Primary Teacher



- 8 -
Certificate (APTC) (a special administrative course which upgrades
qualified primary teachers to become principals), and the Junior Secondary
Teacher Certificate (STC). Senior secondary school teacher training is the
responsibility of the Faculty of Education at: the university which offers
Bachelor of Education and Master of Education degrees.
29.       Non-formal education courses are provided by MOE through LDTC and
by four other Ministries (Agriculture, Health, Interior and Rural
Development). In addition, courses are provided by the Prime Minister's
Office, five non-statutory agencies, the university, and over 400 church
and voluntary groups.  The LDTC provides:  (a) correspondence courses at
the JC and COSC levels; (b) formal and non-formal educational radio
programs; (c) coordination for the MOE's adult non-formal education
programs; and (e) support to mass media in Lesotho.
30.       A School of Accountancy, established in 1980 with technical
assistance provided by the Government of Ireland, is offering accountancy
training to about 100 full-time and 60 part-time trainees. Business and
management certificate and short-term courses, in bookkeeping and the
management of cooperatives are provided by the university's Institute of
Extra-Mural Studies (IEMS).
31.       The National University of Lesotho offers courses in education,
humanities, natural sciences, social sciences, agriculture, theology, and
law. In 1982/83, the university enrolled 935 Basotho and 198 foreign
students attending degree, diploma and other post-secondary programs. In
addition, 300 students were pursuing part-time certificate and diploma
courses. Students qualifying for university study now receive a loan from
the Government which has replaced the free fellowship program which existed
in the past. Graduates have generally been able to obtain Government
employment, especially as secondary school teachers. However, it is
becoming more difficult to absorb most of them within the country because
of dwindling employment opportunities.
Government Priorities, Policies and Plans
32.       The main recommendations of the Education Sector Survey (para.20)
are to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of primary education;
(b) emphasize mathematics and science and expand practical studies in
general secondary education; (c) develop vocational, technical, and higher
education to meet national manpower needls;(d) extend and coordinate
non-formal education programs; and (e) improve the joint Government/church
coordination and supervision of edlucaticn activities. To achieve these
objectives, the Government has established the following priorities:
universal primary education by the year 2000; development of curriculum
relevant to Lesotho's realities and needs, including improvement in the
teaching of Sesotho; provision of instructional materials for all children
at primary level; expansion of practical subjects at the secondary level;
addition of training facilities at the technical schools and at diversified
secondary schools for rural out-of-school youth and adults; expansion of
the pre-service and in-service teacher training programs, in order to



increase to 75 percent the number of qualified primary teachers by the year
2000; expansion of non-formal training in agriculture; expansion of health
education and literacy programs; upgrading of the Technical Institute to
polytechnic level; and expansion of the university's facilities to add
agriculture and medicine, while improving its coordination with the
existing institutions.
33.       Most of the above goals are realistic and significant progress
already has been made towards achieving some of them. For example, with
over 90 percent of children of the relevant age group already in primary
schools, universal primary education has been virtually achieved. However,
at present some of the goals are unrealistic or need modification. For
example, considering the present low utilization of some existing practical
subject facilities, priority ought to be given to upgrading equipment in
these facilities rather than building new ones. Regarding the university,
it would be more realistic in Lesotho's economic and financial
circumstances to concentrate on consolidating and seeking measures for
reducing the cost of existing programs rather than introducing new costly
programs. Although there is an urgent need to train agriculturists,
engineers and doctors, this can be done more economically through a program
of affiliation with other universities with facilities in these areas
rather than if Lesotho does it alone.
Education Finance
34.       Although the Government finances most of the expenditures on
education (about 80 percent of all local financing of recurrent
expenditures in 1982/83), a significant contribution is made by the local
people (through school fees), and also from abroad by church organizations
and development aid agencies. There are indications that external
financing has declined considerably recently, especially in respect of
recurrent cost funding. The Government's own resources cover
administration expenditures of MOE, teachers' salaries at all levels, most
recurrent costs of the university (including student loans), but it relies
heavily on grants and soft loans for capital investments in the sector.
35.       Of MOE's recurrent expenditures (averaging about 20 percent of
total Government recurrent expenditures in recent years), the share of
primary education has averaged about 42 percent. The share of post-primary
education (including LTI and NTTC) rose from about 28 percent in 1979/80 to
about 32 percent at present. For these two levels of education, virtually
all government financing is channeled through MOE. For the university,
however, the identifiable share of about 20 percent of the recurrent budget
of MOE understates the Government's contribution since student loans are
administered outside MOE's budget.
36.       In 1982/83, the recurrent cost per student to the Government has
been estimated at M 45 in primary schools, M 337 in general secondary
and M 6,509 in higher education. The costs for primary and secondary
education are among the lowest in the Eastern Africa Region, while for the
university they are among the highest. From a financial, as well as an
equity, point of view, the high cost of the Government's financing of



- 10 -
higher education is a matter of concern.. While in primary and secondary
education all students pay fees 2 which cover most expenditures, other
than teachers' salaries, in the university, only a small number of
students, who are not included in the Government's bursary program, pay for
part of the cost of their education. In 1982/83, students' contribution
covered only 1.5 percent of the total recurrent expenditures of the
university.
37.       Government investment expenditures in education, both in absolute
terms and in relation to the Government's total capital expenditures, have
fluctuated sharply in recent years -- from M 6.5 million in 1981/82 (9.7
percent of total capital expenditures) to M 2.3 million in 1982/83 (3.6
percent of total capital expenditure). The structure and level of capital
expenditures in education have been closely associated with the
implementation of specific projects. For example, during the period 1978
through early 1982, which coincided with. the last stages of implementation
of the first and second IDA-assisted education projects, investment was
high and concentrated in secondary education. Similarly, a relatively slow
start in the implementation of the third IDA-assisted project was reflected
in the low level of investment in 1982/83.
38.       As the present fiscal constraints are not expected to ease during
the next two to three years, the recurrent budget for education is unlikely
to increase in real terms during the period. Thereafter, only modest
increases can be expected. Thus, it has become extremely urgent to
implement cost-saving and cost-recovery programs. Cost-saving measures
underway include the rationalization of the deployment of teachers in
secondary schools which should result in a reduction in staff costs per
student. However, at the university, costs appear to be out of line and
better management and organization should result in substantial savings.
At present the teacher/student ratio is very 'Low (1:7) and total staff
numbers, including non-teaching staff, almost equal the student enrollment
numbers. Both academic and administrative staff can be substantially
reduced without lowering quality. Furthermore, a system of effective
student contribution to the financing of the university is necessary.
These issues are covered in a study done by a Bank team in February 1984.
The team's findings and recommendations have been presented to the
Government for consideration. During negotiations, the Lesotho delegation
confirmed the Government's commitment to introduce measures for more
efficient financing of university education based on the Bank study's
findings and recommendations.
39.       The level of resources required to finance education in future
will depend largely on the population's growth rates.  A recent World Bank
report on "Financing of Education in Eastern Africa' points out that if
Lesotho retained the present growth rate, by year 2015, the recurrent cost
of education would increase by 185 percent.  If, on the other hand,
2 In primary schools, depending on the school and student grade
(1 through 7), the fees range from M 5 to M 50 per year. In secondary
schools, also depending on the school, student grade (8 through 12) and
whether day student or boarder, they range from M 80 to M 450 per year.



- 11 -
there were an intermediate decline in the growth rate from 2.4 percent to
about 2.0 percent in 2015, the recurrent cost of education would increase
by 101 percent, but if the rate declined rapidly from 2.4 to 1.0 percent,
the cost would increase by only 3 percent. Based on the above
observations, close attention needs to be given to population policies.
Future dialogue on such policies will be conducted in the context of the
proposed Health/Pbpulation project scheduled for FY85.
Role of the Bank Group in Education in Lesotho
40.        Past Experience.  The Bank Group, which is the major source of
external capital financing for education in Lesotho, has assisted the
development of education and training since 1974 through three projects
which are described below. The First Education Project (Credit 497-LSO),
approved in July 1974, for US$4.0 million, was designed to: (a) expand
technical and commercial education at the senior secondary level; (b)
establish an extension college (the Lesotho Distance Teaching Center) for
adult and non-formal education; and (c) provide facilities and equipment
for the introduction of a new and more practically-oriented curriculum in
six general secondary schools. The project was completed as originally
scheduled and a Project Completion Report was issued in October 1979. The
June 1980 Project Performance Audit Report noted that the project's
educational objectives and targets, apart from the limited enrollment in
the distance teaching program, were satisfactorily achieved.
41.       The Second Education Project (Credit No. 748-LSO), approved in
November 1977, for US$7.5 million, was designed to: (a) expand two senior
secondary technical schools; (b) establish a trade-testing system; (c)
unify and encourage curriculum development efforts through the
establishment of a National Curriculum Development Center; (d) increase the
number of general secondary schools with facilities for the new, more
practical curriculum; and (e) encourage a community outreach program and
use of project-provided facilities during free periods by adults and
out-of-school youth. After a good start, the project encountered delays in
implementation due to inexperienced management. With change in management
in early 1980, implementation improved significantly, although completion
was delayed by one year. A Project Completion Report, issued on
May 23, 1984, suggests that more attention ought to have been given to the
institution-building aspects of project administration and that, unless due
attention is given to the improvement of management at MOE and school
levels, efforts to improve efficiency and quality will produce only limited
results. These issues are being addressed in the proposed project.
42.       The Third Education Project (Credit 1148-LSO), which was approved
in May 1981, provides US$10.0 million for: (a) improvement of the quality
of primary education through construction of 150 classrooms and provision
of 1.9 million workbooks and textbooks in three subjects (English,
mathematics and Sesotho); and (b) expansion of vocational training
facilities through support for the Thaba Tseka Vocational Training Center
and the Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center. Implementation of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily and is expected to be completed,
as scheduled, in September 1986.



- 12 -
43.        Lessons Learned.  The Project' Performance Audit Report for the
First Education Project, the Project Completion Report for the Second
Education Project, as well as supervision missions of the ongoing project,
have noted, inter alia, that:
(a)  particular attention should be given to improving the
quality of primary education, and to programs to train youth
and adults in vocational skills;
(b) MOE should improve and strengthen its policy planning and
implementing capacity; 3
(c) more attention should be given to resolving the problem of
access of poorer students to fee-charging secondary
schools;
(d) future Bank Group investments in secondary education should
hinge on the conditionality that the Government implement
its policies; and
(e) weakness of MOE management and school principals
needs to be addressed to improve the quality of education.
Sector Lending Strategy
44.       Since the greatest national resource of Lesotho is its people,
the Bank Group's strategy for future lending in the education and training
sector should be, in particular, to assist the Government in its efforts to
continue to improve the quality and efficiency of its basic education
system and to provide its people with the skills to enhance their
employment opportunities. Consistent with this strategy, future projects
should support institution-building by strengthening the administrative
capability of MOE and the Project Implementation Unit to enable them to
carry out efficiently the Government's program; to continue to support the
primary and secondary levels; assist with commercially-oriented
agricultural education to increase local production and reduce agricultural
imports; and provide for additional assistance to planning and research
activities.
PART III -- THE PROJECT
Background
45.       The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
consultants and Bank staff. It was appraised in December 1983. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No.5020-LSO), dated June 2C, 1984, is being distributed
3 UNESCO, USAID and ODA (UK) are assisting MOE in these areas.



- 13 -
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from June 7-8, 1984. The
Lesotho delegation was led by Mrs. Q. Moji, Deputy Director of Planning,
Ministry of Planning, Employment and Economic Affairs. Annex III provides
supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in its
efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of its education system.
Specifically, it would assist an investment program consisting of:
(a) provision of primary school classrooms, including furniture and
equipment: (b) support for in-service training programs for primary,
secondary and vocational teachers and for the training of primary and
secondary school principals in administration; (c) provision of facilities
and science equipment in secondary schools; (d) establishment of a
business/commercial stream at an existing vocational school; and
(e) specialized studies, including evaluation of the in-service teacher
training programs.
Detailed Features
Primary Education
47.       Primary Classroom Facilities.  The September 1980 mapping
exercise showed that Lesotho had one of Africa's worst known primary
classroom shortages. For the 1980 enrollment of 244,800 pupils, there were
only 2,843 classrooms, or one classroom for every 86 pupils. To reach
MOE's goal of one classroom for every 45 pupils, which is considered
reasonable, the country requires 2,584 new classrooms. In addition, the
mapping exercise revealed that only 72 percent of the existing classrooms
were adequate, 10 percent were in such bad condition that they should be
replaced and 18 percent needed renovation. It is likely, however, that the
majority of the classrooms that should be replaced will continue to be used
for some time due to lack of funds. The mapping exercise also showed that
65 percent of the pupils were inadequately seated (40 percent sat on the
floor and 15 percent had improper seating). Finally, of the schools in the
mountain areas, 75 percent did not offer seven grades, making it difficult
for the children in these areas to complete full primary education.
48.       The project would provide about 330 classrooms, including storage
facilities, pit latrines and furniture, at approximately 100 existing
primary schools. Classroom facilities would only be provided in schools
where at present pupils sit in the open air, or where facilities are
inadequate. The main focus of the component would be in the remote
mountain areas where the shortage of classrooms is most pronounced. Funds
for pit latrines would also be included for about 50 existing primary
schools. All schools to be with provided additional facilities have been
identified.
49.       The classrooms, which would accommodate 50 pupils each, would be
simple in design and would have simple basic furnishings and facilities.
The program would be a continuation of the Third Education Project



- 14 -
(para. 42). As in the Third Education Project, local communities would be
asked to contribute to the improvement of the schools by constructing
teachers' housing and/or other ancilliary facilities (kitchens, food
storage sheds, etc.).
Secondary Education
50.       Secondary School Facil.Lties.  The Education Sector Survey report
(paras. 20 and 32) addressses the issues of proliferation of secondary
schools, their staffing and the usage of the facilities. The Government
has agreed to implement the report's recommendations which form the basis
of the secondary facilities included in this project.  The project would
include provision of classrooms, laboratories and workshops at eight
secondary schools. The objective is not to expand the system, but merely
to provide facilities in existing schools to improve the quality of
education. All the schools selected already have enrollments which exceed
their present physical facilities and meet the criteria outlined in the
sector survey report. To facilitate the implementation of the new
secondary school policies, the project includes technical assistance (eight
staff-months), financed from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance,
to prepare a plan for more efficient use of the facilities and staff.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on a plan which includes:
(a) an analysis of existing facilities at 30 schools; (b) a review of the
present utilization of staff; (c) a review of the appropriateness of the
curriculum; and (d) science equipment lists for the selected secondary
schools. The plan would be finalized Eand submitted to IDA by December 31,
1984 for review and comments (dra,ft Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
51.       Equipment Supply.  Most of the secondary schools in Lesotho do
not have the equipment needed for adequate teaching of science courses.  As
a result, the examination results in these subjects are deteriorating.  In
many cases, the students are examined on experiments they have never
performed and in some cases they have never even seen the equipment. The
sector survey recognized the urgent need to improve the teaching of science
subjects and to find alternative methods of purchasing the equipment and
materials required. To resolve the problem, MOE plans to establish a bulk
purchase of science equipment and materials. These would be supplied to
schools for a replacement fee. Only schools (about 70) of an acceptable
size (as identified in the sector survey) would be eligible. Lists of the
schools selected and of the equipment to be supplied would be submitted to
IDA by December 31, 1984 for review and comments (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.06). This component would assist MOE make the initial
purchase of science equipment and supplies. The science specialists at the
Curriculum Development Center would prepare t:he equipment lists, assist
with its distribution and train the teachers in their proper use.
52.       In addition to science equipment, t:his component would supply
supplementary equipment for home economics, agriculture, and handicraft
courses, presently being taught at thirteen secondary schools, to enable
these schools to improve the quality of education and maximize the
effective use of the existing facilities. It is expected that the
additional equipment will enable these schools to increase student
participation in practical subjects by about 700-1,000 students.



- 15 -
Vocational Education
53.       As indicated earlier (para. 26), there is a shortage of
well-trained diploma graduates in the business/commercial field. The
problem is particularly serious in the Mohale's Hoek area which has
undergone rapid industrial development, and a number of business concerns
are experiencing shortages of manpower while no facilities for commercial
training exist in the area. Consequently, the Government has decided to
add a commercial stream to the existing St. Elizabeth's Home Economics
School located in the area. The new stream would accommodate about 50
students divided into two classes. The course would take two years
following completion of junior secondary school. Curricula and syllabi
would be similar to those of the CTI business studies. At negotiations,
tentative agreement was reached on a curriculum for the business/commercial
courses; and assurance was obtained that MOE would create three positions
of commercial teachers at the school and fill them with qualified staff by
April 1, 1986 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08(b)). In
order to accommodate the additional stream, three more classrooms,
additional dining hall space, a library, offices, dormitories for 40
students and two staff houses would be provided. Equipment and teaching
aids, such as typewriters, calculators, library books and audio-visual
aids, would also be provided. The project also includes nine staff-months
of specialist services to study the vocational education system. The study
is being financed from the PPF advance.
In-Service Training
54.       The in-service training component would include five training
activities: (a) upgrading of about 600 unqualified primary school
teachers; (b) training in administration for about 200 primary school
principals who would in turn help train unqualified primary school
teachers; (c) pedagogical training for about 85 vocational school teachers;
(d) management training for about 120 secondary school principals; and (e)
apprenticeship training for about 30 architectural technicians and
draftsmen (about six per year). In June 1976, MOE started an experimental
two-year program to train unqualified teachers and upgrade the skills of
underqualified teachers. Most of the costs of the program -- teachers'
salaries and maintenance of the college -- were borne by the Government.
All other costs -- travel expenses, food on campus, printing of course
materials, salaries of teaching assistants -- were financed by the
Government of the Netherlands. This assistance is no longer available and
funds are needed to improve and update the training programs in response to
MOE's new policies and new textbooks used by primary school teachers.
There is also need to develop new in-service training programs for primary
school principals and vocational teachers, and apprenticeship training of
architectural technicians and draftsmen. USAID and the British Council
will also be providing assistance for management and in-service programs at
the NTTC.
55.       The project would cover the participants' travel and lodging
expenses, salaries and expenses of extra teaching and support staff, course
materials, equipment and educational visits. Program expenditires would be



- 16 -
offset partially by a fee to be paid by each participant. The component
would include technical assistance, totalling 36 staff-months of the
services of a training specialist (program coordinator) -- to be assisted
by a Mosotho counterpart (already assigned) --- who would coordinate the
activities of the in-service department of NTTC. Specifically, the
specialist and the counterpart would review and assist in improving, inter
alia, existing in-service training programs for primary, secondary and
develop new programs for vocational school teachers and for primary school
principals. (Six staff-months of the specialist's services are financed
under the PPF advance). At negotiations, tentative agreement was reached
on a plan for the staffing of NTTC to carry out the in-service programs for
primary  school teachers, principals and vocational teachers.  The plan,
which includes terms of reference for the evaluation of the in-service
training programs, would be finalized amd submitted to IDA by December 31,
1984 for review and comments (draift Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.09). Ten staff-months for a specialist to carry out the evaluation are
also included in the project.
56.       Training of Primary School Teachers.  In spite of previous
in-service training efforts, the number of unqualified teachers at the
primary level remains at 36 percent (85 percent of them women).
Considering that 68 percent of the unqualified teachers teach grades one to
three -- the most crucial years of- basic education -- the upgrading of
unqualified teachers is an urgent necessity. The objective of the program
is to reduce the number of unqualified primary teachers, and thus improve
the quality of basic education. The program would operate during the
summer and winter school holidays (January and July) at NTTC. Staffing
responsibilities for the program would be shared by the regular staff of
NTTC, LDTC, field staff 4 and teachers being upgraded in the APTC
program. About 600 teachers would be trained.
57.       Training of Primary School Principals.  The role of the primary
school principal is a crucial one. At present, less than two percent of
the principals have been trained specifically for their positions. The
proposed program would: provide practical training in techniques of school
administration;  provide practical training in supervision through guidance
and assistance to at least one unqualified teacher to obtain his/her first
professional certificate (LIET, level one or two); improve their knowledge
and teaching skills in practical subjects; and expand and update their
knowledge of education and ability to tetach core subjects. The program
would take three years, and would involve two groups each of 100
participants.
58.       Training of Vocational Teachers.  In the seven vocational
industrial schools and eight home economiics schools, about 60 percent of
the teachers have craft certificates but do not have pedagogical training.
The proposed in-service training program would improve their teaching
skills and thus the quality of instruction.  The course would upgrade 45
unqualified teachers in the vocational a.nd 40 in home economics schools.
4 NTTC staff working in the schools supervising the interns.



- 17 -
59.       Training of Secondary School Principals.  The project would
include an in-service training program for all secondary school
principals. The training program would be coordinated by the Institute of
Development Management which has already organized successful management
and curriculum courses for principals. The course would cover school
administration, planning, staffing, financial management and office
administration. Two courses of one month duration, each enrolling about 60
principals, would be held during school holidays. The training would
greatly assist the Government in improving the efficiency of its secondary
school education system.
60.       The Apprenticeship Training of Architectural Technicians and
Draftsmen would be a continuation of a successful program started under the
Second Education Project and continued under the Third Education Project.
The program is under the direction of the architectural team provided to
the Project Implementation Unit by the Ministry of Works (MOW). The
program has been established in cooperation with the Technician Training
School located at Lesotho Technical Institute.
Institutional Support
61.       Education Administration.  The Planning and Statistics Unit of
MOE, using equipment provided under the Second Education Project, has
developed a sound education statistical data base. However, further
assistance is required to expand MOE's data processing capacity, including
primary and junior secondary school examinations. For this purpose, the
project includes provision for the purchase of supplementary data
processing equipment. This equipment would also allow MOE to process in
Lesotho all examinations which at present are processed partly in South
Africa at considerable cost. The equipment would increase MOE's efficiency
and reduce its recurrent costs.
62.       Textbook and Equipment Distribution.  The project would provide
warehouse facilities for the operation of the text book distribution
program. The cost of the program (assisted under the Third Education
Project) has increased because anticipated storage facilities have not
materialized. As a result, MOE has had to rent expensive temporary
facilities. A permanent warehouse facility is required for the efficient
operation of the program. The facility would also be used as a center for
the distribution of science equipment and for the educational materials
(teacher aids) produced by the Instructional Material Resource Center.
Specialized Studies
63.       The project includes provision for the following:  (a) an
analysis of facilities and staff utilization at secondary schools to enable
MOE to prepare an effective strategy for implementing the Government's new
policies and programs (eight staff-months); (b) a review of curriculum,
staffing and facilities utilization in vocational schools and a survey of
employment opportunities for graduates; (c) development of trade testing
and apprenticeship policies (nine staff-months); and (d) a review of the



- 18 -
content of in-service courses and preparation of the training programs (10
staff-months). During project implementation, the Government and IDA would
maintain a dialogue on follow-up action on recommendations resulting from
these studies, as well as on the implementation of the recommendations of
the study on higher education financing (para. 38).
Summary of Technical Assistance
64.       The following are details of the 63 staff-months of technical
assistance for specialized studies and coordination of in-service training:
(a) eight staff-months of specialists services to prepare a report on the
use of facilities and staff of secondary schools (para. 63); (b) 36
staff-months for a training speciatlist (program coordinator) to coordinate
the in-service activities of the NTTC (para. 55); (c) nine staff-months of
specialists services to study the vocational training system (para. 63);
and (d) 10 staff-months of specialists services (evaluator) to review the
content of in-service courses including preparation of in-service training
programs (para. 63). Specialists and consultants would be selected on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines for use of consultants. Duties of the specialists
would emphasize the training of local counterparts. Consultants for
project administration and professional services are described in
paragraphs 72-74. Terms of reference for the consultants were agreed upon
at negotiations.
Female Participation in Education
65.       Female participation in formal education in Lesotho is probably
much higher than in other African countries at a comparable development
level.  In 1982, it was as follows:  at the primary level, females
represented 57 percent of total enrollment; 60 percent at the secondary
level; and 19.6 percent at the higher level. The proposed project would
provide primary school classrooms, where the participation of girls is
estimated at 100 percent of the age group (6-12); teacher in-service
training, where female participation is expected to be over 90 percent;
primary school principal training, where women participation is expected to
be about 60 percent; and expansion of St. Elizabeth's Home Economics School
(presently an all-girls school), where business trainees are expected to be
about 75 percent girls.
Coordination with Other Donor Agencies
66.       In order to avoid duplication of effort and improve coordination
of the substantial external assistance provided for education in Lesotho,
the Bank Group has discussed the content of the proposed project with
representatives of a number of aid agencies active in the sector -- the
Federal Republic of Germany, British Council, USAID, EEC, CIDA, Irish
Government, UNDP and World University Services of Canada (WUSC) -- which
agree with the project's priority. Their assistance for the sector
complements that provided by IDA.



- 19 -
Project Cost and Financing
67.       Total project cost is estimated at US$13.0 million equivalent
(including taxes and custom duties estimated at US$0.4 million equivalent),
of which US$7.5 million is in foreign exchange. The cost includes physical
contingencies of 10 percent for civil works and professional services, and
five percent for furniture, equipment and vehicles.  Price contingencies
have been calculated at 3.5 percent in 1984, 8 percent in 1985, 9 percent
in 1986-88 and 7.5 percent in 1989 for foreign costs; and 13.5 percent in
1984, 13 percent in 1985, and 12 percent thereafter, for local costs.
Detailed cost estimates are provided in the Credit and Project Summary.
68.       Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
were derived from data provided by MOW, the Project Implementation Unit,
(based on its experience in previous IDA-assisted education projects) and
locally-based firms of architects, quantity surveyors and contractors. As
in the Third Education Project, designs of accommodation under the proposed
project are simple and functional, and the furniture and equiment would be
appropriate for their purposes. The emphasis on use of building materials
locally produced or found in situ, successfully started under the Third
Education Project, resulting in improved implementation efficiency and
reduced unit cost, would be continued and expanded. It is expected that
the participation of medium-size local contracting firms would increase.
Although a direct comparison of cost is difficult, since all classrooms
would be extensions to existing schools, the construction cost per student
place of US$212 equivalent (July 1984 prices) compares favorably with
US$234 in Botswana (1981), US$235 in Malawi (1979) and US$256 in Swaziland
(1979).
69.       Professional services to be procured from abroad would consist of
a senior and a junior architectural consultant. Professional services for
construction supervision would be obtained locally. Consulting firms
established in Lesotho, which have been employed with satisfactory results
in the previous three education projects, are expected to be retained for
this purpose.
70.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 9.7 (US$10.0 million equivalent),
would finance 79 percent of total project costs net of taxes. It would
cover all foreign exchange costs and 49 percent of local costs excluding
custom duties and taxes. The balance (US$3.0 million equivalent) would be
financed by the Government.
Budgetary Implications
71.       The effect of the project on the capital budget of the Government
has been estimated on the assumptions that overall capital expenditures
would remain unchanged in real terms up to 1985/86 and grow at a modest
three percent per year thereafter, and that the share of MOE's expenditures
in the total capital budget would be about seven percent, the average share
for the last three years. On these assumptions, the maximum capital budget
allocation needed for the project in any single year would account for less
than 4 percent of the overall capital budget, of which Government would
contribute about 20 percent, which is lower than the average corresponding



- 20 -
contribution in the last three years (over 27 percent). Incremental
recurrent expenditures generated by the project when in full operation are
based on the following assumptions: (a) recurrent expenditures of MOE
would remain unchanged in real terms up to 1985/86 and grow at three
percent per year thereafter; and (b) teachers' salary levels would remain
constant in real terms. On these assunnptions, incremental recurrent costs
of the project, which would result almost exclusively from increased in
salaries of teachers to be upgraded, are estimated at 1.7 percent of MOE's
recurrent expenditures by 1990/91, when the upgrading program is expected
to be completed.
Implementation
72.       The proposed project would be implemented over a period of about
five years and is expected to be completed by March 31, 1989. The
implementation schedule is based on, inter alia, experience derived from
the three previous IDA-assisted education projects. The Project
Implementation Unit, called "Training for Self Reliance Project" (TSRP),
initially established to execute the First Education Project, would
implement the project. TSRP is functioning reasonably well, but some staff
skills need strengthening. The positions of director, accountant,
procurement officer, and supporting staff are filled by full-time Basotho
staff. To assist TSRP to reorganize its accounting and procurement
procedures more in line with those of the Ministry of Finance, and
strengthen its administrative capacity, the services of a procurement
officer (12 staff-months) and an accountant (24 staff-months) have been
included in the project. These consultants would assist and train the
local staff in procurement and accounting procedures. Credit funds would
finance, on a declining scale (para. 79), about 40 percent of total
operating expenses (excluding local salaries) for project administration.
73.       Professional Services.  Architectural/engineering services for
the implementation of the project would be provided by a team seconded from
MOW since the Second Education Project with responsibility for the design
and supervison of construction of all education project facilities.
Currently, the team consists of two expatriate architects and a local
junior architect. The team has established an apprenticeship program which
trains an average of about six local draftsmen and architectural
technicians per year. In consideration of the expanded program under the
proposed project, with physical facilities dispersed in remote areas of the
country, funds are included in the project for the full-time services of an
architect (60 staff-months) and an architectural technician/construction
supervisor (60 staff-months). In addition, the Government of Ireland will
continue to finance the services of about 10 staff-years of professional
architects. MOW has agreed to continue to provide to TSRP two full-time
architects and one junior architect (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.11).
74.       As MOW is unable to provide certain specialized professional
staff, funds would be included in the credit for short-term consultants
services of a civil engineer (six staff-months), a quantity surveyor (12
staff-months) and a land surveyor (six staff-months). The consultants will
be hired on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines for use of consultants.



- 21 -
75.        Site Selection.  The primary school classrooms included in the
project are all extensions to existing schools on sites for which land has
already been allocated to local communities and designated as school land.
A satisfactory list of about 100 sites has been provided to IDA. No
problem is envisaged in the provision of adequate land for the expansion of
secondary schools and the St. Elizabeth's Vocational School.
Maintenance of Facilities
76.       The Government would continue to allow non-government school
proprietors (churches) to collect maintenance fees, but would establish a
system for control of the use of such funds to ensure proper and timely
maintenance. To ensure funds collected are used for the intended purposes,
the Government would submit to IDA for review and comments a maintenance
control plan (draft Credit Development Agreement, Section 3.10). The
submission of the plan to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)).
Procurement
77.        Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB        LCB      Other       NA    Total Cost
1.  Civil Works                   -       5,215    1,538        -        6,753
-     (4,000)  (1,300)       -        (5,300)
2.  Furniture                    181        486       -         -           667
(181)     (419)      -         -          (600)
3.  Equipment & Vehicles       1,170        477       -                   1,647
(1,170)      (430)     -                  (1,600)
4.  In-service Training           -          -        -         750         750
(750)      (750)
5.  Technical Assistance          -          -        -         683        683
(600)      (600)
6.  Professional Services         -          -        -       1,571       1,571
(900)      (900)
7.  Project Administration        -          98       340       494        932
(40)    (140)    (120)        (300)
1,351    6,276    1,878    3,498         13,003
(1,351)  (4,889)  (1,440)  (2,320)    (10,000)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 22 -
(a)  Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines for
procurement, except for contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each, but not more than US$0.5 million
in aggregage, which wou:ld be awarded on the basis of.
competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB) in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Under ICB, domestic
manufacturers wou:Ld be granted a 15 percent preference, or
the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is
lower; and qualif:Led domestic civil-works contractors would
be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5 percent over the
prices of competing for(eign contractors.
(b)  Due to their smal:L size and remote and scattered locations,
contracts for the construction of primary school facilities
(US$5.2 million) would be awarded on the basis of: (i) LCB
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA, or
(ii) should LCB result in non-responsive tenders, on the
basis of negotiation with the individual mission (church)
schools (about US$1.3 m:Lllion) which in the past have
carried out their own construction programs. In cases where
schools would be unable to attract local contractors or to
carry out their own construction, TSRP would carry out the
construction through departmental forces.
78.       Architectural sketch designs., draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles, indicating proposed grouping
and estimates of cost, would be reviewed by IDA. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by IDA prior to
contract award would be required only -or contracts for civil works costing
more than US$200,000 equivalent each and for contracts for furniture,
equipment and vehicles costing more than US$50,000 equivalent each.
Disbursements
79.       Disbursements would be on the following basis:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for construction materials, furniture,
equipment and vehicles;
(b)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for training and studies;
(c)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 40 percent of local
expenditures for technical assistance and professional
services;



- 23 -
(d) 80 percent of total expenditures for civil works by contract
and 80 percent of local expenditures for civil works under
force account;
(e) expenditures for project administration (excluding salaries)
on a declining scale (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 1, Paragraph 1, Category (5));
(f) SDR 430,000 to refund PPF advance; and
(g) SDR 390,000 for initial deposit in the Special Account
80.       All disbursements would be fully documented, except disbursements
for project administration and work executed by force account which would
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, documentation of which
would not be submitted for review but would be retained by TSRP to be
available for inspection by IDA staff in the course of project
supervision. Based on experience in previous IDA-assisted education
projects, TSRP has satisfactory institutional capacity to use the statement
of expenditure procedure. The proposed five-year disbursement schedule for
the project is slightly shorter than the eight-year disbursement profile
for Lesotho. This is considered realistic because of the following factors
which are expected to lead to faster project implementation: the school
construction program would be a replication of an ongoing program; use of a
PPF advance to advance project preparation; and experience from two
previous education prjects, which were completed in about five years, and
the ongoing project which is expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
81.       Project Preparation Facility (PFF) Advance.  To further advance
project preparation, a PPF advance of US$440,000 was approved on
September 30, 1983. The advance is financing the cost of 35 staff-months
of technical assistance and consultants' services (including salaries,
travel and subsistence expenses), and support staff and services for
carrying out project preparation activities. As of May 31, 1984,
disbursements totalled US$200,000.
82.       Special Account.  In order to ensure that credit funds for the
project would be available when needed, a Special Account, to be operated
by TSRP and financed with advances from the credit, would be establihsed in
the Lesotho National Bank with an initial deposit of SDR 390,000 equivalent
in local currency which would be withdrawn from the credit proceeds after
effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.02(c)). The
account would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence, to be
provided to IDA by TSRP, of payments made for eligible expenditures for
civil works, goods and services required for the project. The opening of
the account would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).



- 24 -
83.        Project Advance Account.  In order to ensure that counterpart
funding also would be available when needed, the Government would establish
a separate Project Advance Account into which it would deposit, at the
beginning of each quarter, its share of project costs. Establishing the
Project Advance Account and depositing the iniitial amount of M 95,000 would
be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 6.01(c)). The account would be regularly replenished so that at
any time its balance would not be lower than M 35,000 (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). A Special Aiccount and a Project Advance
Account have been established under the Third Education Project and are
operating satisfactorily.
Reporting and Evaluation
84.       Semi-annual reports on implementation progress would be submitted
to IDA by TSRP based on a format agreed under the Third Education Project.
A project completion report would be preparecL by TSRP and submitted to IDA
not later than six  months after the credit's (Closing Date.
Accounting and Auditing
85.       All expenditures financed under the project would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA applying satisfactory sauditing
procedures. Audit reports would be submitted to IDA annually within six
months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
86.       The project's major benefit would be the improvement of equity,
quality and efficiency of Lesotho's basic education through: provision of
better primary school classroom accommodation and facilities to correct
present inadequacies; in-service training of primary school teachers and
principals, and secondary school principals to improve teaching skills and
school administration; and upgrading of facilities and equipment in
secondary schools to improve the teaching of science subjects. About
45,000 rural primary school pupils, at present poorly accommodated, would
benefit from new classroom facilities; about 22,000 secondary school pupils
would benefit from the science equipment and 4,000 from improved
facilities.
87.       The project would also make an important contribution to
manpower training to meet the requirement for trained technicians by:
upgrading vocational training; establishing a business/commercial stream;
and training architectural technicians and draftsmen. About 1,000 students
would benefit from improved vocational teaching. Another project benefit
would be support for institution-buildirng through provision of technical
assistance to TSRP and strengthening of MOE's data processing capability.



- 25 -
88.       Project risks, which are minimal, relate mainly to the
institutional weakness of MOE and possibility of delay in project
implementation and follow-up action on recently approved policies on the
allocation of facilities, equipment and staff in secondary schools.
Technical assistance and close monitoring through project supervision by
IDA staff would minimize this risk. Another risk -- Government's delay in
providing counterpart funding -- would be minimized by the establishment of
the Project Advance Account (para. 83). In addition, the establishment of
the Special Account (para. 82) would ease the problem of the Government
having to pre-finance IDA-financed project expenditures before claiming
reimbursement.
PART V -- LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Lesotho and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately.
90.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a) the
submission of a maintenance control plan (para. 76); and (b) the
establishment of a Special Account and a Project Advance Account and
deposit of the initial amount in the latter (paras. 82 and 83).
91.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
92.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 10,1984



ANNEX I
-26-                                             Page 1 of 5
I A B L E 3A
LLSOTUO                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LESOTHO                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOSST                      (MOST RECE.NT tsTIMArE) /b
RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INLOILE
1960/       1970/   STIMATEl          A.FRICA S. OF SAiARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (TiOUSAND SQ. IN)
TOTAL                                  30.4         30.4         30.4
AGRICULTURAL                           27.8         24.2        22.9
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      50.0        120.0        540.0              1147.9                     1340.0
ENERGY  DNSUKPTION PER  CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ..           ..          ..                724.2                      810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       869.0       1061.0      1372.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           1.5          2.6        12.1                 28.5                       47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 2.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   7.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. NN.                          28.6         35.0        44.2                56.5                        36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               31.3        43.8         58.5               131.8                       449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                            38.8        40.0         41.1                45.9                        43.9
15-64 YRS                            56.9        55.7         54.8                51.2                        52.8
65 AND ABOVE                          4.3         4.3          4.1                 2.8                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 1.5          2.0          2.3                 2.8                        2.9
URBAN                                 7.1          7.5        16.1                  5.3                        4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           42.4         42.4         42.4                47.6                       42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           23.1         18.7        14.7                 15.2                       12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8          2.8          2.8                 3.2                        3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         104.0        94.0         90.0                 95.7                       97.5
PEPR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENrS)         95.0         90.0       107.0                 97.1                      102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PEA DAY)             66.0         64.0        72.0                56.0                        72.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           15.0         13.0         14.0/c              17.2                       17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            30.9         27.2        22.2                23.6                        15.2
HEiLTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          41.6         46.5        52.2                 51.9                       57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         144.0        L30.9       113.3               117.6                       104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                                  *-          3.0        17.0/d              25.4                        59.3
URBAN                                  ..        100.0        65.071               70.5                       84.9
RURAL                                  ..          1.0         14.0/d              12.3                       37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         11.0         13.0/d
URBAN                                  ..         44.0         51.07.                        
RURAL                                  ..         10.0         12.0/8d
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            23490.0     30310.0      18640.0/c           12181.6                      3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              6540.0/e    3010.0       4330.071            2292.0                      1H20.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               690.0        570.0       490.U/c             1075.4                      643.3
URBAN                                70.0/e     100.0        200.07ic            402.3                       545.0
RURAL                               980.u7_     73U.U        580.07_            3926.7                      2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER liOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        20.0/c                 ..                        2b.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         3.9/c
URBAN                                  ..           ..         4.27..
RURAL                                  ..           ..         3./c
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  *            *.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..          ..                  ..                        46.2
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                  ..                        77.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..          ..                  ..                        16.1



ANNEX I
-27- < {Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
LESOTHO                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LESOTHO                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb  RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960.1-b    1970-  ESTIMATEL-         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     83.0         90.0        104.0                97.2                        89.6
HALE                     63.0         71.0         84.0               103.1                       104.8
FEMALE                  102.0        109.0        123.0                88.5                        72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      3.0          7.0         17.0                17.2                        41.7
MALE                      3.0          6.0         13.0                23.5                        52.8
FEMALE                    4.0          7.0         20.0                14.2                        31.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)            22.6          8.4          5.1                  5.2                       10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              54.0         46.0         49.0                42.9                        31.9
SECONDARY                            20.0         22.0         21.0                23.7                        23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                   ..          ..         52.0                37.1                        43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             3.0          1.5          2.4/c               18.8                       18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            4.6          4.7         22.4                97.8                       138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          ..           ..                18.6                        45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..          ..          1.0/f              18.2                        31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          ..           ..           ..                 0.6                         1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             487.0        570.0        704.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     45.3         44.3         43.5                36.1                        10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                93.0         90.0         87.0                56.8                        42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    2.0          3.0          4.0                17.5                        27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                56.1         53.7         51.3                37.0                        25.6
MALE                                 62.2         60.3         58.2                47.1                        45.4
FEMALE                               50.1         47.2         44.4                27.0                         5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.8          0.9                 1.3                         1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
HIGHEST 2D% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        304.0               534.2                       276.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..        253.0               255.9                       177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        113.0               491.5                       400.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        113.0               188.1                       283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..          50.0                 ..                        22.0
RURAL                                                           55.0                                           30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f 1978.
May 1983



ANNEX I
-28-                                              ~~~~~Page 3of 5
~InitTtON OF ~SoIAL iXD0CAOCWS
noprblo batea.- of Oh. look of  tedeftaddfitteoad  cone~pt  usdby diffe.ren  vootnies in toIetngteda.Teaaar,ortas,osf                                                        o
don Ih tsoder  of eagot-d., ontdioat  tren d.. erd  Yhrtera    eoaoajo    lfr.nab`tt notia
OTho ref aroo  troupe are (0) tho ea-   -to     y groo  of the subjet noaotry end (2) a    _tooty stoP .ith occahat high.r  Sno .g  iooe_ ha  thectoygopo   h
sobJet nontry (co-top   for 'Ugh Ilolee  Oil ssp.,troof A" . goP nOtae 'flddi  moos  Nort   Wfill end Middl  toot" is tbeaen hoo_.  ofstogroi-nlrl
gra   e   aafrtbet  Windito.  tdino the  Ieaaoo   otns   eo   h   ntaoadpoao   h   nioiopf It                             datd  end Ia no  u-tifor f cation stat be
Mid (nbeoaosd eq.h..(                                                                    lotion    rIOt siotant- Popohanion dttded by noaher of pravo trio
srtotal                                                                                                   thit  on   .ontit   ed  n-en1nan    nor    t  F'iSjiTf ICf'o   atodo    nbo   en o thitenetty   leni
end 09305 data.                                             frg~~~~~,,  no Nor tlonsioa Person - Popoletion ditided by nathan of preotoPtingI. d,id.  bP
097  sdA98  dono.                                                                             Ptrlaittnn oopne  td   t-el  obd. ad  onl   rpoltint.o.
orhen, end Preno-i)      .-       . .i dioe   ynernepcidn d nobr off- spnoh,
r., -lkt ..d kWh.. S-d.b.    t.    19noonann ou  inc-dod. tonl... to.                                  a b.o. enitoiod  heallth endA
1970~ 0970  and0 1980 daaSre   optl   tl                                                                                        gapitplgnrlbaiao   n   oa
lOthl,ll000  oOt OlOtI.Al  I bi  h                                                           ipecotlee.noap79le ar  inoloed onl  onda"total
19ol  t.leio.d 19dOs   t.  ans  -b   fJi                  90   97,td18                          Mah.iaaioenr.  toait - te-     -Tnlnae  oft admetio.ll noonl. dicare
daa.fnatosinlediidd                                                                                                    .y.O  nuha  of bed..ly.ff
Urban Potalotion loortent of tonal) -y lenint .- P of onhan.bno.htotal oinioplatiot;
difretd       Aiinoo   rhnats. Ay. affect rdot.yerahiiitpty. of. l   -f.ddoneph 8010101by                                                                                        t
9o0so97g nvonnod 1 h9        1700 and180d.                                                           P-tdtaneatr Ste  o  Hoat,Id   ..eaon .rr            P_tb l-ttl,obn   n   o
.~~zo0ig~~~4o1.fl0jgnnion~~~~.                                              - 'b, ho'.ol t onaInon11   ofaPoyo   oinda.   b   bnol                    onoa
onnalMO   poooD   o  hyag  adeo  adth i   unalo   adTenilo                                           hehoehodso  aPtoIchl Porynel. .d.i1.dm -t   . 
1.0.1I.eeotog.  ife eordect               A-ty  at hirh inceasin   1970nonoy'. na                 o  nersovAdpr.coo,.t  el- orbot,  ond-~ rurf occoyitod  cnteoItn
yIe.m    aoan.  Ont. tantilt   note.I: att  betth.d_nteuoc'Iddnae
tesigdelnei  frtltyatedngtnlrotlee  and pea  f-aily                                  dsea  toOtti  t    acntn   eliot-tcu.obn   n   e
netoetiPne o  aonoiy        tn fernitityted   o   rjcoo    epet                                   ooto,ohn   n   oa  derl ntorcicoc_y r..Y                       b   bldd
el   h   itlh Not  is; eqa  on -n dethi  nats  an   la   h.aet.0100
a oaton  r.anetnstot.Ths  e  nhavd  nl  after y         for   hnr.a jil   fnnohlsdo  o tioa                                  P
delie  o  harolatto  lns  o  uitne   tpodntonroa,ohnPn.or  tOni-  ntt  .1.en  faue  IrA,!,t,  nl  ad  ntt
aah  enraio   oLf oneen   .- repae   birtee - ...naty.    the  ..n..y                           no en   fnl  gea the yrpOeeny r-tent opei eos                     f  tdnnv
goolton   le  et  eneaebonoh  hah  t  te  enonadchnaoa-ynoay  chotog   ppeanan;  vraly  nnote  hidrn  ge  ii
- ttOd-aen gnftaoinn tnya t-of   fontne  (100tI. bootrts). of                    pron"den gnn tal  (nPi"        l  o   nca   nann   nt in    o
AihTie   I9f   1970,Y and 100  doetyiaaaiy  o  12 ft 17 dar   f   n;cntaodno   cear   n
Per en. he  .  onnlenltn I      - teue   tcoefrarclorlln                                           eeriyenuo
only  t9hg, 097  end     . 190dt.                                                             conoin-  enoleet Ie1eotofcecoarnt-hoatioe InoloonI
'toatoMeSrnae  orat  -cidet0-0pa.I.,okn-ae15bylo.tonco,mdoone,o   toncccoohcnooed    ot.d
Pooaiot.     . nn th Mon (nnuth - on   -200  -dnuo  gtnot  nenf  urha                             di   Itrcnsn(acn)- -Yr eadtt                                ..tl  to ' mo   nfenn
rdeOrhtet  (No c oooao)h beld-lnehi ob  tn   dcuon  o   Id
Iaar totp.. la     -Ition b91  1970, and                                                                                             - 0991 dana,f cO-ynolnoi-Tlfi
tote-Me o.   ll   r.ge.uberd    o  doghara teen-oi   boor in                            not i..tany neh-odca,
h.rnracrepedotio   poiod  f os eyefcoca poato al-aycif.n0dm Onclvo.Pi(ton nboeaad  rooli-n -h 011 i. o -ce                           . of  rntonoio  vdi
fenOlnyrac.;nesli  fw~eenannuee  ndngin  Oh,  970  an                 roo nto  nororo  ycli  pn tuuon  ofyouloncn;no juy.on
progra.        - lasa        OdIoCiotp-dr  hfeav  reoloio-     T  n-1inrIfo   rndat  n
ufnodhernoc   1-4yer   f  uthnh-ono  dooon                                              I'" ononoto  m   In  2t ye   I s  -ot no tern o   f  On    0
lnndn o  Ono  Prdottco   er Crlo  ""I -.'Dt P-  todo  "f pend-Y..                           tottntn t,t            risitot   euuo   nonnu  'co.  I  I-orldon
dao. tithet"Ut ro-tC;                                                                                               -
Pa   eOaeol   ftlre I    IreIoont ofrgifena       onu    fine..tOtti                                        I   -rion  toron  "t-oeeodde)  - onritll   cto   -erdo -, tno        re
copnrne,h Mt evd chang . .ine0ch    19tt aCrt.ensnoaa    nd   ed,ONMTINub;ti,ttledlfdo.
agh  n   t   i tniotn   ofP- p             .po Pn ... adloigI   eon   o   at                        neoo  (crtntt.rbo   tno  n  1                  d0. ttton Inn  o....toot
cn hnesehold  ee.0; 09b1-hb  0970 and 009  data,P,fr                                  :i and nlnnhio o,onrlu.a.oyenntg   f  oa   ao  fre.M
nonaoplynO  oo  te  dy.   tttoply  f  oedIsisfttataon.                        -lationotontot  (entnt  -  otl,  ele  od fostI-l'nttipn(n   o
"oaY nnro  of obtch1 r.                 od  eeio   ntt.    m       eet.b.  I                      toil. .070,  and-101 denja.  Tb eotr   sndo   t'  yrl-rn o   o
anandnde  te lver tan Ooso  f 71  ransof tnel  rnteiond   5 grat  re 1cm tnotan-tt anunnoe ofnt. yyoletno,end lng te, toud 
ofanse   nnei   .  n  neoe  orO.  nnd,porae   y  iOtotnIeert  Isdanc                       .. orIdnne oa  auco
mindOnrf rod Snne; 191-O, 170  nd  990data                     toonoc (randtoc  fote -tetn  o  mnttetot  nde  15and  i adY...t
deried   ri.entabiandpohnadn ganaper-oybI b--S-b070ott117
Child(aa.  I-i  heah tat  (p.  nboasnd  - Mnoe   dtana--e  tbuo d inPrtent-ct of- Pr IoenOnt bt -o -sa  cod-ind) -I  bl-tvd-b.nrho
ogagrop 14 yara* t  ohldrn  i  ono. ge  roo; fr san deotpo                        p        "rcen   P.ibo   1pnrt  pontI           nn,od  ors   0yreto
oooonntes dana herbood ftna lIft neblst; lObI, 1900 end 1001 dana.                    -do-1ebo-deT
FOOD"10  NUTR00  10000N100T'
fceso   s.Ott.preto   n d do                     tt1.ora.edrrl-nortmnyeou iOr dtrc rtoo nda.n....                                                   noo-fon   n.ut   -tna itdto
to1erofpepl  yoc00  uban,. an   ea)nt   etnbsan.   naf                                      fodal.1yift
eae  apl ....  Onntled.a  .roo    ofn    aeen   nrae   hut.P'.                                  toletd   eeto    -Ponerty        .  1-1vo  tao - (( -  -e apt)-  nonkdtoa
saiar        rIl)s  p.rnibeofnn lnraan.                 toplet-tne ."d In inp                              -eoa  ino.n  tc--ry           ne   eotI    rodf-eO.rr
nasbna o  th  botobod do net hno r.to ap-d-ja dtpootint    er   fp
rorol -  oeben o      Peorl  (tonal  onhan.      1%165 and.I  Ig noe Ieradhctr
disosa  as r       ftnasso   hi  tepcte  oeaine    ortedto
ta   nldataoilninad  ipet   iho  ethtu C.ane.                        .ortonetnoRoRC                                                                        en   ioe
host  aret  ad e' s-atr  y  str-brnPae en  n  tt  eeofpi                                                                       (onninostyloen -ojntonF   epnnon
pdiyle and aistfor            Hinenal  lenona.                                                                                                          ay  00



-29 -
ANNEX I
Rpilateio            :1.37 millIon (mid-1981)
QNP per Capita in 1982: LE$445.4
t-Et -EaKC ]MCAS
hmnt               %%are of GDP at Cwrent Market R&ices                         Averag hmual toAh Pate at
(milion (Is$                   (perwct)                                              Constant 1970 Prias
Indicator                  at current frices)
1982           1970       1975     1980       1982                          1970-75     1975-8         198)-82
NAflG1AL AxxfS
ross damrstic product          296.2              100       100       100       10                             5.8          8.9           5.9
Agricultn-e                    67.3              32         32       27         23                             4.4         0.3
Minirg                         12.5               1         0         9          4                           -22.2        86.7          -12.3
Other nldustry                 52.9               7        13        16         18                             9.0        12.6         -10.6
Services                      163.5              50        55        48        55                             5.5          4.6          10.6
Consumptim                     594.8              132        187      174       201                            13.6          9.3
ss invetrent                   103.4               11        25        38        35                            22.1         22.9
:cports of (bods & iFS          50.8               11        15        16         17                             1.7         9.7
Teports of (bods & WS          374.7               54       121       125        133                           24.1         10.8
Qkss national savirga           28.7               ..       15          5         7
HmICES
G)P deflator (198D-100)                       69        77       90        100       109
xC1hange rate(tS$/MAoti)                   1.150     1.150    1.190      1.285      1.149              0.923
Share of GDP at Market Picea (1)                                               Arap me     l IncIrease ()
(at current pri_e) b                                                     (at anstant 198D pticB)
1975   198)   1985   199D                                                  1975-8D      1980-85     1985-90
(koss d  tir product               100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                                                   11.6           3.2        3.6
Agriculture                       28.0   25.4   24.5   23.8                                                     8.4          2.3         5.1
Irnmtry                           11.5   17.4   17.5   18.6                                                    5.9           3.8        3.8
Services                          48.7   40.2   41.1   41.6                                                    6.0           4.1        3.8
Couption d                          97.6   94.5  100.8   94.5                                                     8.9          0.7        2.4
Grcss invwestnet                    24.6   31.4   22.5   22.5                                                   19.3          -3.4        3.5
Bbports GfS                         14.6   16.2   12.0   13.2                                                   30.3          -5.2        6.1
imprts Q2FS                        125.7  104.0  106.0   99.1                                                   10.8           3.3        1.9
roass natioral saving             29.9   21.5    9.8   20.3                                                    6.5          40.0       27.5
s- % of GDP
1975/76   198D/81     1981/82
RBLIC FIIP21E
Cbrrent rewca                                                   26.3       33.1        29.6
Qwrrent epxediturex                                             22.8       33.4       35.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                       3.5       -0.6       -6.7
Capital epTetxunre                                              11.4       15.0       11.9
Foreili f1-in rg                                                 8.1        8.7        6.4
1975-8   198-85   1985-90
OTHR Da=CA
QiP grgth rate (X)                                              6.9       3.8      3.7
(HP per capita grth rate (%)                                    4.5       1.4      1.4
Energr consuption grth rate ()-                                            -        -
6.5      8.6       6.7
Marinal svwis rate                                               -         -        -
liqort elsaticity                                               0.95      1.13     0.63
& Cants are eqreesed at factor cst.
frojectied yeam at cortant prices.
c Estimtes.
d As percntage of QNP.
EFstern Africa
May 1983



-  30 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
LESOTHO
TRADE P AYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOW
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1979    1980    1981       1982     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1982
(MiIIion US$:'                                     USS Million    %
Exports of Goods & NFS           55.0    72.1    65.0       50.8    Dlamond                      14.2      36.6
Imports of Goods & NFS          327.3   430.4   480.4    425.7    Wool                            3.9      10.1
Resource Gap                   -272.3  -358.3  -415.4   -374.9    Mohair                          2.6       6.7
Not Factor Services             204.9   255.2   266.2    252.8   Others                          18.1      46.6
Net Transfers                    48,8    63.8    58.6       52.9    Total                        38.8    100.0
Balance of Current Account    -18.6   -39,3   -90.e6   -69.2                                     ..   =.... an.
EX(TERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
USS Million
Official Grants                  21.4    30.9    24.1         9.2
Direct Foreign Invetment           -       4.5     4.8       3.7    Pubilc Debt Incl. guaranteed        138.6
Net M&LT Borrowing               24.4    31.4    31.4       24,9    Non-guaranteed Private Debt           ..
Disbursements                  24.9    31,8    32.2       25,.8    Total Outstanding & Dlsbursed    138.6
Amortization                    0.6      0.6     0.8       0,9
Change In Reserves                0.6      0.6    -2.0    -10.0    Detbt Service Ratios for 1982
Memorandum Items                                                     PLblic Debt incl. guaranteed           14.8
Current A/C Balance 5 of GNP    4.2        7.6    15.1      10.2    Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Dlsbursed          14.8
Rates of Exc ge                                                     1IE2RD/IDA Lending as of March 31, 1984  (US$ Milion)
IBRD      IDA
USS/Maloti                                                  Outstanding and Disbrused                 -        50,6
1980     1.2854                                                     Undisbursed                               -        19,7
1981     1.1490                                                     Outstanding Incl. Undtsbursed                      70,3
1982     0.9228
not available
May 1984



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at March 31, 1984)
Amount (less cancella-
tions, terminations)
US$ Million
Credit        Year      Borrower       Purpose                  Credit       Undisbursed
Six credits are fully disbursed                                  29.79             -
795-LSO       1978      Lesotho        Basic Agricultural
Services                6.00            2.53
884-LSO       1979      Lesotho        Third Highway              9.00            4.39
887-LSO       1979      Lesotho        Water Supply               6.00            2.04
985-LSO       1980      Lesotho        Second LNDC                4.00            3.07
1036-LSO      1980      Lesotho        Urban Development          6.00            2.53
1148-LSO     1981       Lesotho        Third Education           10.00            5.16
Total                                 70.79           19.72
of which has been repaid               0.48
Total now held by IDA                 70.31
of which undisbursed                  19.72
Note: The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1984)
Investment                                                          (US$ Million)
No.              Year       Type of Busineiss           Loan         Equity       Total
405-LSO             1978       Lesotho Quality
Aggregate (FTY) Ltd.       299,000       31,000    330,000
Total Gross Commitments  299,000         31,000    330,000
Less: Cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and
sales
Total now held by IFC    299,000         31,000    330,000



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 10 months from preparation
mission of July 1983
(b) Project prepared by: Government, assisted by IDA
(c) Appraisal: December 1983
(d) Negotiations: June 1984
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1984
TI.    Special IDA Implementation Action
PPF advance of US$440,000 to finance preparation of designs and site
surveys (para. 81).
III.   Special Conditions
(a) Government to prepare a plan for more efficient use of existing
secondary school facilities and staff (para. 50);
(b) Government to prepare curriculum for business/commercial
courses at St. Elizabeth Home Economics School; and assign
three teachers to the school by April 1, 1986 (para. 53);
(c) Government to prepare staffing plan for in-service training
program at NTTC by December 31, 1984 (para. 55).












I BR D 181 14
17                                                                                                      P-
V/
Ol'I
211,
Ci A     I'V, S   H
I 0 F
t
L E 5 C T H 0
11311.1                                                                                                                                           FOURTH  EDUCATION  PROJECT
tj I I 1 1 N
t
-IT 1.1L



I
I



