FILE COPY
Report No 1424b-CE
Sri Lanka: Appraisal of the Water Supply Project
April 18, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Energy and Water Supply Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients
only in the perfomiance of their otficial duties Its contents rnaE not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
On May 24, 1976, the Sri Lanka Rupee was officially linked to
to a basket of currencies with the initial parity rate based on the
Rupee/Pound rate at that date. Both the composition of the basket
and the weights assigned to the currencies in it were revised on
March 12, 1977. The current Rupee/US Dollar rate has been used
throughout the report, except where stated to the contrary: I/
Currency Unit      =        Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)
US$1                =       Rs 7.28
US$ 1 million               Rs 7,280,000
Rs 1                       US$0.137
Rs 1 million        =       US$137,363
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Ig            =  Imperial gallon (1 Ig = 1.2 US gallon = 4.546 liters)
Img           =  Million Imperial gallons (1 Img = 4,546 cubic meters)
Imgd          =  Million Imperial gallons per day (1 Imgd = 52.62
liters per second)
Igcd          =  Imperial gallons per capita per day (1 Igcd = 4.546
liters per capita per day)
in            =  inch (1 in = 2.54 centimeters)
ft            =  foot (1 ft.= 30.5 centimeters)
mile          =  statute mile (1 mile = 1,609.34 meters, approxi-
matel! 1.6 kilometers)
acre          =  acre (1 acre = 4,046 m ; or 2.47 acres = I hectare)
sq. mile      =  square mile (1 sq. mile   259 hectares)
1/   Sri Lanka is effectively operating a two-tier exchange rate system,
originally introduced in 1968 after the devaluation of the rupee in
1967. An official exchange rate is prescribed by the Central Bank.
In addition, most payments for foreign exchange include a surcharge
to purchase Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates (FEECs) which
raises the price of foreign exchange to 65% above the official
rate. FEECs may be considered equivalent to a 65% ad valorem
tax on imports. FEECs are not applied to imports of foodgrains,
fertilizers and a number of smaller import items.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIF       =  Cost Insurance and Freight
FEEC      =  Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
MC        = Municipal Council
NIM       = National Institute of Management, Sri Lanka
ODM       =  United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Development
TC        =  Town Council
UC        = Urban Council
UNDP      = United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    = United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
WDB       = National Water Supply and Drainage Board, Sri Lanka
WHO       = World Health Organization
GLOSSARY
Ganga = major river
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
sThb document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfofmance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not othefwise be discbcd without World Bank authorization.






APPRAISAL OF THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
ADDENDUM
1.        During preparation of the appraisal report, discussions between the
Association, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the
Government of Sri Lanka were taking place regarding a possible CIDA contribution
to the project of five million Canadian Dollars. Although this arrangement appeared
to be agreed in principle by concerned parties, formal agreement had not been
reached at the time of completing the appraisal report. Such an arrangement is
therefore not reflected in the report. The CIDA credit of Can$5.0 million has
now been agreed on the same terms and conditions as the IDA credit, and would be
administered by IDA; both credits would be subject to the same procurement pro-
cedures. At current exchange rates 1/ the Canadian contribution would be
approximately equivalent to US$4.8 million, and the IDA tredit would be reduced
from US$14.0 million to US$9.2 million. Both credits will be disbursed together,
in proportion to the tespective credit amounts.
2.        Corresponding revisions to the financing plan (paragraph 6.26 of the
appraisal report) and to the schedule of disbursements (Annex 9 of the appraisal
report) are attached.
1/ The rate prevailing on April 1, 1977, US$1.0 = Can$1.0523






ADDENDUM
ATTACHMENT
Revised Financing
Plan
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Water Supply and Drainage Board
Period of IDA Project - 1977 - 1981
Requirements                                         Rs Thousands   US$ Thousands        %
Proposed project (including taxes and FEECs)            309,603         42,528          52
Other projects (including taxes and FEECs)              268,493         36,881          46
Working capital increase                                 13,490          1,853           2
Total requirements                                591,586         81,262         100
Sour ces
Internal cash generation                                 86,345         11,860          15
Less:  Debt service                                       3.765            517           1
Net internal cash generation                       82,580         11,343          14
Government equity and grants-/                          3]8,009         43,683          54
Borrowings:  IDA Credit                                  66,976          9,200          11
IDA - Administered Credit                        34,944          4,800           6
Government'/                                     89,077         12,236          15
Total borrowings                                  190,997         26,236          32
Total sources                                     591,586         81,262         100
The proposed IDA Credit of US$9.2 million equivalent, reduced from US$14 million, would
prov:ided 11% of the total financing required during the project period and the proposed
IDA - Administered Credit of US$4.8 million equivalent would provide 6%; Government
would provide 54% as equity and grants and 15% as loans; WDB would finance 14% of the
total requirements from internal cash generation.
a/ Government policy is to make loans for financing of distribution systems and make
grants for headworks' capital investment.



ADDENDUM
ATTACHMENT
Revised Annex 9
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year         Disbursements During Quarter           Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ '000 Equivalent)                  fif 000 -qii1xv7Pnt-'
and Quarter           IDA Credit  IDA Administered        IDA Credit   IDA Administered
Credit                               Credit
1977/78
September 30, 1977             0                  0                 0                  0
December 31, 1977             30                 20                30                  20
March 31, 1978               850                450               880                470
June 30, 1978              1,300                700            2,180               1,170
1978/79
September 30, 1978         1,630                870            3,810               2,040
December 31, 1978          2,000              1,000            5,810               3,040
March 31, 1979               650                350            6,460               3,390
June 30, 1979                800                400            7,260               3,790
1979/80
September 30, 1979           650                350            7,910               4,140
December 31, 1979            650                350            8,560               4,490
March 31, 1980                60                 40            8,620               4,530
June 30, 1980                 60                 40            8,680               4,570
1980/81
September 30, 1980           150                 50            8,830               4,620
December 31, 1980            150                 50            8,980               4,670
March 31, 1981                60                 40            9,040               4,710
June 30, 1981                 60                 40            9,100               4,750
1981/82
September 30, 1981             0                  0            9,100               4,750
December 31, 1981              0                  0            9,100               4,750
March 31, 1982                100                50            9,200               4,800
April 1977.



APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........ . . .  ............................ .   i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION       ................... ....................
II.   WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ...................             2
A.   Water Resources and Population            ................  2
B.   Water Supply and Sewerage ...................      ..      2
Sector Organization .....       ....................    2
Sector Investment Programs and Constraints ..           3
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ......       ..............................     3
A.   Background ....................................            3
B.   Existing Water Supply Facilities ....*   .........         4
C.   Organization of Operating Institutions .... ....           5
IV.   THE PROJECT ....... ................                             6
A.   Scope and Objectives ......        ....................    6
B.   Project Description ...... ..............                  6
C.   Cost Estimates .......        .........................    8
Proposed Amount of IDA Credit and Project
Financing ................................          10
D.   Implementation .......        .........................    10
The Executing Agency ..............  o.........    10
The Project Schedule .....       ...................    10
Procurement .......      ..........................    10
Land Acquisition and Way Leaves          .............    11
E.   Disbursements            .................................    11
F.   Environmental and Health Impact ..          ............    12
This report was prepared by Peter H. Ware (Sanitary Engineer) and
John M. Vance (Senior Financial Analyst).



-2-
Page No.
V. THE PROJECT ENTITY. ........................    12
A.  Establishment ....................................12
B.  Organization and Management ...................    13
C.  Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities ..                 14
D. Accounting .                                                   15
E Audit ..                                                        16
F. Local Authorities.                                             17
Colombo Municipality ..........................   17
The Five Towns South   .               .17
VI. FINANCE .18
A. Background                  .           .18
B. Past Operation and Present Financial
Position   . .18
C. Billing and Collection    .                 .19
D. Tariffs   . .20
Background   . .20
Bulk Supply   . .20
Retail Supply   .                  .21
Tariff Study   . .21
Tariff Covenant WDB   .                .22
Local Authorities   .                 .23
Retail Tariff Estimates   .              .23
Subsidy for Poorer Group of Consumers  . .24
E. Financing Plan   .                     .24
F.  Future Finances            ...................  26
Debt Limitation Covenant   .              .27
Performance Indicators   .              .27
VII. JUSTIFICATION ................................    27
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .30
ANNEXES
1.   The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
2.   Description of the Existing Water Supply Arrangements
3.   Description of the Project
(Appendix 1) Project Description
(Appendix 2) Local Authorities in Project Area
4.    Sewerage - Background and Future Development
5.   Projected Water Demand, Production and Population Growth
6.   Detailed Cost Esimates
7.   Construction Schedule
8.   WDB Procurement Procedures
A. Procurement of Goods
B. Civil Engineering Contracts



- 3 -
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   WDB Organization Chart
11.   WDB Income Statements 1975-1983 (Total Operations)
12.   WDB Balance Sheet 1975-1983 (Total Operations)
13.   WDB Cash Flow Projections 1977-1983 (Total Operations)
14.   WDB Income Statements 1977-1983 (Project Area)
15.   Notes and Assumptions for Financial Projections
16.   Performance Indicators, 1976-1983
17.   Economic Analysis
18.   Industry and Tourism
MAP
Sri Lanka Water Supply Project   -  IBRD 12531






APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Water supply in Colombo, capital city of Sri Lanka, and five
adjacent towns (Towns South) is inadequate for the community's requirements.
Supply is intermittent, leakage from defective mains is high and water
quality is questionable. In five towns adjacent to, and north of Colombo
(Towns North) and in the towns of Ambalangoda and Kalutara there are no
piped water supplies at all. These areas rely primarily on shallow wells
which yield inadequate quantities of poor quality water. Water borne
diseases including typhoid, infectious hepatitis, dysentery and cholera are
evident.
ii.       To alleviate these deplorable conditions a project is proposed for
IDA financing, the first Bank Group assistance to Sri Lanka in this sector.
The project represents part of the first stage of works recommended under a
Master Plan Report for the southwest coastal area of Sri Lanka, prepared by
consultants employed by the World Health Organization (WHO) as executing
agency for the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The project would
be implemented in a five-year period, 1977 through 1981; it would improve the
reliability and quality of water supply to 1.2 million people and provide
water supplies to 0.4 million people who at present rely on shallow wells.
iii.      Proposed works to improve existing water supply systems serving
Colombo and Towns South include increasing the capacity of existing pumping
facilities at Ambatale and improving transmission and distribution systems.
The Ambatale works will also provide water to Towns North via new transmis-
sion and distribution facilities. These works will increase the supply from
about 54.5 Imgd available now to about 74.5 Imgd; they will improve water
pressures and permit an uninterrupted supply to present consumers and to
many new consumers -- some 60% of wnom will receive water from standpipes.
iv.       Two separate elements of the project provide new water systems for
the towns of Ambalangoda, Kalutara and adjacent communities. The works,
(which comprise river intakes, pumps, water treatment plants, transmission
mains and distribution systems) will provide water to 160,000 people in 1981,
as well as to commercial, industrial, tourist and institutional establish-
ments. Consumer metering throughout the project area is proposed as a means
of preventing excessive waste of water.
v.        A separate component of the project would provide the first step
toward improving urban sanitation by inclusion of technical assistance for
final design of sewerage facilities to improve the Colombo system and provide
sewage collection in selected areas.



vi.       The project would be executed by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board (WDB), a comparatively new agency under the Ministry of Local
Government. WDB would also assume the role of a bulk water supplier to
Colombo and Towns South under which it would operate Ambatale works and two
sources presently controlled by Colombo Municipality; these local authorities
would continue to operate distribution facilities. WDB would operate the
whole of the water system for Towns North, Ambalangoda and Kalutara.
vii.      The total cost of the project which IDA would help finance is
estimated at US$42.5 million including FEECs (US$9.0 million), a foreign
exchange premium, and customs duty (US$3.1 million). The estimated project
cost, excluding FEECs and customs duty is US$30.4 million, of which US$14.0
million is in foreign exchange and is the proposed IDA credit.
viii.     The proposed credit of US$14 million equivalent would be passed
on to WDB as a Government loan at an annual interest rate of 9% and a term
of 24 years, including a five-year grace period. The credit would cover
all of the foreign exchange costs of the project and would provide 17% of
WDB's total requirement of funds during the project period.
ix.       In accordance with IDA guidelines, procurement would be under
international competitive bidding procedures with the exception of contracts
under US$100,000 and totalling not more than US$0.5 million (for which the
complex procedures of international bidding would not be justified). Domestic
preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty (whichever is lower) would be
granted for equipment, and 7 1/2% for civil works.
x.        WDB's bulk tariffs for the project area would be increased from a
present low rate averaging Rs 0.60 (US$0.08)/1,000 Ig, which has not per-
mitted WDB to cover its operating expenses, to an average rate of Rs 0.96
(US$0.13)/1,000 Ig in 1978, and to successively higher levels thereafter to
enable WDB to cover its operating expenses and debt service and to begin
financing a portion of the capital investment from internal cash generation.
There would also be an interim tariff increase of about 45% in 1977. WDB
would maintain tariffs in the project area at a level to produce a minimum
rate of return on average net fixed assets of 5% in 1978, 6% in 1979, 1980
and 1981 and 7% thereafter. For operations outside the project area, WDB
would be required to ensure sufficient revenue to completely sustain those
operations so that they are not subsidized from the project area. Under
these arrangements WDB would, commencing in 1981, be financing about 30% of
its capital investment programs from internal sources.
xi.       The project would enable the water demands to be met throughout
a major part of the urban area of the southwest coast. It would enable
sections of the community who now depend on polluted water sources to abandon
such sources. The poor would receive a free, 24-hour supply of wholesome
water through standpipes. The health and welfare of the people would be im-
proved and a real constraint on the growth of industry, commerce and tourism
would be removed.
xii.      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$14.0 million.



APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Sri Lanka has requested an IDA credit to help
finance a project to improve existing water services and provide new piped
water supplies to Colombo and parts of the southwest coastal region of Sri
Lanka. The project is estimated to cost US$42.5 million, including FEECs
(US$9.0 million) a foreign exchange premium, and customs duty (US$3.1 mil-
lion). US$14.0 million is required in foreign exchange. The project is also
directed toward strengthening the newly formed National Water Supply and
Drainage Board (WDB) which will be the beneficiary of the proposed credit
(paragraph 5.01).
1.02      Master Plan studies to the year 2000 for water supply and sewerage
services to the southwest coastal area were prepared in 1972 by Howard
Humphreys & Sons, Consulting Engineers of the United Kingdom, sub-contractors
to the World Health Organization (WHO) as executing agency for the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP). As part of the same contract, the con-
sulting engineers also completed preliminary engineering and feasibility
studies of water supply and sewerage requirements in the first five years
of the Master Plan period.
1.03      Sri Lanka has received bilateral assistance from France and the
United Kingdom to implement parts of the works recommended in the Master
Plan and feasibility report; however, there was not sufficient aid to com-
plete the whole of the system and a situation will soon be reached whereby
treated water from new facilities cannot be conveyed to consumers because of
lack of foreign exchange to finance interdependent components. Government
is therefore seeking IDA assistance to implement the remaining portions of
the first water supply stage of the Master Plan, and thereby enable maximum
benefits to be obtained from previous investments. The proposed IDA credit
would be the first to this sector in Sri Lanka.
1.04      An appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Ware and Vance, assisted by
Mr. Van Nimmen, visited Sri Lanka in September/October 1976. This report is
based on the mission's findings and on information obtained from Government
officials and WDB staff.



- 2 -
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
A. Water Resources and Population
2.01      The average annual rainfall in the southwest quarter of Sri Lanka
is about 100 inches per year compared with 35 inches in the drier zone which
covers the remainder of the island. There is a shortage of wholesome piped
water in the southwest region because of the lack of facilities with which
to pump, treat and distribute the abundant, although polluted, river waters.
Yields from groundwater sources in this area cannot support urban communities
although wells are used successfully for rural areas in other parts of the
island. Annex 1 contains additional water resource information.
2.02      Based on the 1971 census, the estimated mid-1976 population of Sri
Lanka is 13.8 million. 1/ The current, annual national population growth rate
is 1.8% and the population density, based on a land area of 25,330 square
miles (about one quarter of the land area of the United Kingdom) is 546 per-
sons per square mile.
B. Water Supply and Sewerage
2.03      Levels of water and sanitation services (Annex 1, Table 1), which
have been estimated from data collected during the 1971 census, indicate
that about 2.0 million people (77%) of the 2.6 million urban population have
access to piped water but that the quality and quantity of a large proportion
of these supplies -- possibly as much as 80% -- are unsatisfactory. Of the
8.8 million rural population only some 0.4 million (5%) have access to piped
water.
2.04      The level of sanitation has been improved over the years by Govern-
ment subsidy schemes to encourage construction of latrines in urban and
rural areas. However, further improvements are required in these areas,
since only 40 to 50% of the population have acceptable levels of sanitation,
and in rural areas some 40% of the people -- almost 4 million -- have no
sanitation facilities at all. Levels of water and sanitation services are
described more fully in Annex 1.
Sector Organization
2.05      WDB and local authorities are responsible for provision and main-
tenance of water supplies and sanitation, and are controlled by the Ministry
of Local Government. WDB is the principal implementing agency in the sector,
1/   Population and growth rate reported by the Department of Census and
Statistics, Sri Lanka, October 1976.



- 3 -
and provides assistance for the establishment of piped water supplies,
sewerage and drainage to local authorities, state agencies and st Fe indus-
trial establishments. Its primary functions are planning, design, construc-
tion and supplying water in bulk. After construction, water supply systems
are usually transferred to local authorities to operate and maintain, al-
though in a number of cases WDB operates and maintains headworks or entire
systems. The Government has yet to devise a national policy designating
responsibilities for water supply operation and maintenance. The Department
of Health is responsible for Health Education and for the implementation of
a latrine installation program. The Commissioner of Local Government is the
principal officer of a Local Loans and Development Fund through which the
Government channels loans and grants for water supplies and sewerage develop-
ment works (Annex 1, paragraph 13).
Sector Investment Programs and Constraints
2.06      This project is the largest item in a sector investment program
which is presently being prepared. The program is also expected to include:
a continuation of rural water supply schemes, for which additional aid from
the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) has been
requested; sewerage works, to be designed under this project (paragraph 4.10)
and a continuation of rural sanitation works sponsored by the Government.
2.07      The major constraint on development works in the sector is the lack
of foreign exchange for essential items of plant and equipment. The limited
capacity of WDB is a constraint which may become more severe if the loss of
engineering staff continues. These two factors also influence the standards
of operations and maintenance which WDB is able to achieve; however, Govern-
ment has recognized these deficiencies and is endeavoring to correct them
(paragraph 5.05). Sector organization, investments and constraints are dis-
cussed more fully in Annex 1.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Background
3.01      The project includes part of the first stage works recommended in
the UNDP Master Plan report (paragraph 1.02); the project area comprises
that part of the Master Plan area in which the urban communities of Colombo,
Towns South, Towns North, Kalutara and Ambalangoda are located. The project
communities are listed in Appendix 2 of Annex 3 and are shown in Map
IBRD 12531.
3.02      None of the 50 or so communities within the Master Plan area have
satisfactory water services, with the exception of Galle, where a new system
has recently been completed.



-4-
3.03      Colombo has a population of 608,000 people, and is the capital
city, seat of Government and center of commercial trade and industry. Its
water supply system is intermittent and pressures are frequently reduced in
an effort to conserve water. In 1976 the supply was limited to some 4 to 6
hours per day. The situation is similar in Towns South where a population
of 440,000 people receive an intermittent low pressure water service.
3.04      There are no piped supplies at all in Towns North, Ambalangoda or
Kalutara. These areas rely on privately constructed shallow well supplies
which provide poor yields of water of unsatisfactory quality. Although wells
may provide water in adequate quantities -- albeit, doubtful quality -- for
isolated dwellings, groundwater sources in the coastal area cannot meet the
needs of more densely populated urban areas or the needs of larger commercial
and industrial institutions.
3.05      Deficiencies of water supplies are evident in many of the tourist
hotels which endeavor to support a rapidly growing tourist industry in
Colombo and along the southwest coast. The unreliability, or complete lack,
of piped water supplies have caused most hotels to resort to well supplies.
Some hotels are required to supply water to 200 to 300 guests at a rate of
200 Imperial gallons per capita per day (Igcd); however, quantities of water
of this magnitude (40,000 to 60,000 Ig/day) can rarely be obtained from wells
in this region; transporting water by tanker at disproportionately high costs
is sometimes necessary in order to continue operations.
3.06      With the exception of Colombo, no other community has suitable
facilities for the collection or disposal of sewage on a municipal basis.
Although Colombo has a sewerage system it does not cover the entire city and
its capacity is inadequate. Typhoid, infectious hepatitis, dysentery and
cholera are endemic because of these low standards of sanitation and water
supply.
B. Existing Water Supply Facilities
3.07      The existing Water Supply systems are described in Annex 2, illus-
trated in outline on Map IBRD 12531, and summarized as follows.
3.08      The first piped water supply to the city of Colombo, which utilized
groundwater sources and canals, was replaced in 1886 by a gravity supply
from an impounding reservoir at Labugama, some 28 miles from the city. This
source was supplemented by a similar supply from Kalatuwawa, an adjacent
catchment, in 1954. Conventional water treatment facilities incorporating
sedimentation, filtration and chlorination are located near the sources
of supply, from which treated water gravitates to distribution reservoirs
in Colombo and Towns South and thence to consumers. These works have a life
expectancy of more than 20 years, provided they are adequately maintained.
3.09      In the early 1960s a supplementary source of water was developed
at Ambatale by abstraction of river water from the Kelani Ganga. The water



is fully treated and pumped to distribution reservoirs serving Colombo and
Towns South. The present capacity of the Ambatale facilites and the two
impounding reservoirs is 54.5 Imgd. This is insufficient to meet the pre-
sent needs of Colombo and Towns South primarily because of the limited
capacity of the facilities at Ambatale; the Kelani Ganga is one of the
country's largest rivers and is adequate to to meet projected water demands
of Colombo, Towns South and Towns North to the year 2000.
C. Organization of Operating Institutions
3.10      Two of the three water sources serving Colombo Municipality,
(Labugama and Kalatuwawa) as well as the associated treatment, transmission
and distribution facilities are operated and maintained by the Waterworks
Department of Colombo Municipality. The third source of water (the Ambatale
treatment and pumping plant) serving Colombo also serves Towns South, and is
operated and maintained by WDB. Distribution facilities in Towns South are
operated by the respective local authorities.
3.11      The Waterworks Department of Colombo Municipality is the responsi-
bility of a waterworks engineer, under the direction of the Municipal Commis-
sioner. About 530 persons are employed in the Waterworks Department including
five qualified engineers and one qualified accountant. There are some 350
laborers and the remaining 175 or so employees are in supervisory, clerical
and artisan grades.
3.12      A loss of experienced professional staff in recent years, and a
lack of adequate funds particularly foreign exchange, are the main factors
which have compounded the operational difficulties of a system unable to
meet demands greater than its resources. While the standards of maintenance
of treatment facilities remain at a reasonably high level, the distribution
system tends to have been neglected and water leakage and wastage have reached
unacceptable levels, almost certainly exceeding 30% of the daily supply.
3.13      Under a proposed "integrated system" of operating existing water
sources, and associated facilities -- as recommended in the Master Plan and
to be implemented under the project -- a reorganization of the responsibil-
ities of various authorities for operation of water facilities will be nec-
essary; this is described in Chapter V, Section C of this report. Under
the organization proposed, Colombo and Towns South will each operate their
own distribution system, but all other facilities will be operated and main-
tained by WDB. This revised organizational structure may resolve some of
the staffing difficulties of Colombo Municipality's Waterworks Department
since it will be able to focus its resources on maintenance of the distri-
bution system.



- 6 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Scope and Objectives
4.01      The project would provide improvements in the existing water supply
system serving Colombo Municipality and Towns South. It would also provide
for extension of this system to Towns North, which at present have no piped
water. New water supply systems would be provided for the more remote towns
of Kalutara, Ambalangoda and adjacent communities which at present also have
no piped water (Annex 3).
4.02      The project would improve the reliability and quality of water
supply to 1.2 million people and would provide water supplies to 0.4 million
people who at present rely on shallow wells which have poor yields and are
liable to contamination. All sections of the community would benefit from
these improvements; the maximum benefit could well be realized by the poor
who cannot afford to have private water facilities constructed to augment
inadequate piped water. The tourist industry, which is centered in this
area, would benefit since high water demands from hotels cannot be met
from wells of low yield.
E. Project Description
4.03      The proposed project includes the following items:
(a) Colombo and Adjacent Towns
Expansion of the treated water pumping station at
Ambatale to deliver water to Colombo, Towns South
and, ultimately, Towns North.
Improvement of the water transmission system between
Ambatale and existing distribution reservoirs in
Colombo and Towns South, and improvement of distribu-
tion in these towns.
Construction of new transmission and distribution
systems for Towns North.
(b) Ambalangoda, Kalutara and Adjacent Communities
Construction of a complete water supply system (river
intake, treatment and pumping plants, transmission
and distribution systems) for each of the two towns
and adjacent communities (see Appendix 2, Annex 3).



-7-
(c) Other Items
Installation of meters on all consumers' connections in
new water supply areas (Towns North, Ambalangoda and
Kalutara).
Installation of meters on consumers' connections in
Colombo and Towns South as part of a program designed
to meter all connections by 1986.
Provision of spare parts and equipment, of foreign
origin, required for repair/replacement of defective
items mainly associated with pumping, treatment or
bulk measurement of water.
Provision of consulting services for a water tariff
study and for the design of a further package of works
comprising the improvement of urban sewerage facilities.
Training of WDB personnel in water treatment plant opera-
tion and management and in techniques to reduce leakage
in distribution systems; training in accounting and
financial management.
4.04      Some important aspects of the project are briefly described below
and further information is given in Annex 3.
4.05      Parts of the Ambatale works expansion are under construction and
will be completed by May 1977. Only a restricted benefit from these facili-
ties will be obtained until works under this project are also brought into
operation, thus increasing the total effective yield of the three existing
water sources (the Kelani Ganga at Ambatale and the two impounding reservoirs,
Kalatuwawa and Labugama) from the present 54.5 Imgd to 74.5 Imgd. Completion
of transmission and distribution facilities under the project will enable this
increased yield to be distributed to consumers in Colombo, Towns North and Towns
South. The works are designed to permit further, staged expansion to provide
for the projected water needs of Colombo and its environs to the year 2000.
4.06      The project will complete the priority works proposed by the consul-
tants under the WHO/UNDP Master Plan and will resolve the most urgent water
supply problems as well as providing an integrated water supply system for
the Greater Colombo area. The works will in general meet water demands in
Colombo until 1982/83 (Annex 5), when further extensions of the distribution
systems to new areas of Towns South and Towns North are planned, and further
expansion of the Ambatale treatment plant will be necessary; however, water
shortages will continue to be felt when daily water demands approach the proj-
ected maximum day demand (Annex 5, Chart 2), until after the 1983 plant expan-
sion. The Ambalangoda and Kalutara systems are designed to meet maximum day
water demands to the years 1993 and 1990 respectively. Transmission lines are



- 8-
expected to have sufficient capacity for 10 to 15 years after their completion;
treatment plants and intakes are designed so that their capacities may be in-
creased by the addition of elements to the basic structures. The capacities of
all the sources selected are sufficient for the foreseeable future.
4.07      WDB proposes to extend consumer metering to reduce the present high
levels of waste of water. It is estimated that connections to all consumers
(excluding standpipes), throughout the project area will be metered by 1986.
The program requires the installation of some 70,000 meters, and will be sup-
ported by assistance from the United Kingdom in providing meter testing and
repair facilities; part of the metering program is included in the project.
The Government has agreed to ensure that the metering program is completed
by the responsible agencies.
4.08      At present the responsibility for monitoring water quality does not
rest with a particular agency, although the Colombo Municipality and WDB have
the capability and facilities to carry out water examination procedures. To
improve water quality monitoring, the Government agreed to make appropriate
arrangements to establish a system of routine water examination by an agency
independent of WDB and distribution authorities.
4.09      The supply of spare parts under the project will permit the repair
or replacement of essential equipment required for the accurate measurement
of water supplied in bulk to local authorities; WDB has undertaken to install
and maintain reliable equipment for this purpose.
4.10      Recognizing the urgent need to provide improved sewerage services,
Government has requested inclusion of a technical assistance component in
the project to provide engineering services for a further package of works
comprising the improvement of existing sewerage facilities in Colombo and pro-
vision of sewage collection and disposal facilities in areas which have piped
water supplies, including Towns South, Negombo and GalLe (Annex 4). Consulting
engineers would be required to update the Master Plan proposals and complete
detailed engineering designs and tender documents for sewerage and drainage
improvements in the selected areas; this would enable WDB to implement the
construction work under a subsequent program beginning in 1981. WDB has
undertaken to employ consultants acceptable to IDA for these engineering
services. The estimated duration and cost of technical assistance for the
sewerage and drainage work, and for a water tariff study in the project area
(paragraph 6.17), is 162 man-months at US$5,000 to US$8,000 per man-month.
Training for WDB personnel under the project would include financial and
accounting staff as well as engineering staff.
C. Cost Estimates
4.11      The total estimated cost of the project is US$42.5 million.  The
estimated cost excluding FEECs (US$9.0 million) and customs duty (US$3.1
million), but including allowances for physical and price contingencies, is
US$30.4 million. Project costs are summarized below and detailed in Annex
6.



Local   Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign        Total
----- Rs Millions ------    ----- US$ Millions -------
1. Works at
Ambatale             5.4      11.2       16.6      0.7       1.5         2.2
2. Towns North           27.2      19.3       46.5       3.8      2.6         6.4
3. Towns South            7.3       7.1       14.4       1.0      1.0         2.0
4. Colombo                8.9       6.6       15.5       1.2      1.0         2.2
5. Kalutara              22.4      20.5       42.9       3.1      2.8         5.9
6. Ambalangoda            5.3       6.4       11.7       0.7      0.9         1.6
7. Spare Parts and
Appliances           1.7       3.7        5.4      0.2       0.5         0.7
8. Other Costs
Technical Assistance
& Training           3.6      10.8      14.4       0.5       1.4         1.9
Engineering
Services             6.8        -        6.8       1.0        -          1.0
Land
Acquisition          0.5        -        0.5       0.1        -          0.1
Sub-total Other
Costs             10.9      10.8      21.7       1.6       1.4        3.0
Base Cost
Estimate            89.1      85.6      174.7     12.3      11.7        24.0
Physical
Contingencies       14.6       8.1       22.7      2.0       1.2         3.2
Price
Contingencies       15.7       7.9      23.6       2.1       1.1         3.2
Total Project Cost
(Excluding FEECs
and Customs Duty)  119.4    101.6        221.0     16.4      14.0        30.4
FEECs and Customs
Duty                 88.6       -         88.6     12.1       -          12.1
Total Project Cost  208.0    101.6        309.6     28.5      14.0        42.5
4.12      The project cost includes:  (i) physical contingencies at 7.5%, 10%
and 20% of base costs, depending on the nature of the work and whether esti-
mates are based on final or preliminary engineering design; (ii) price con-
tingencies for materials and equipment at 7% to 8% per annum in accordance with



- 10 -
the current guidelines, (iii) price contingencies for civil works are 7% to
10% per annum for local and foreign civil works contracts. The estimates for
civil works are based on current local contracts or on updated unit rates from
the Master Plan study. Estimates for foreign materials and equipment are
based on recent quotations by manufacturers.
Proposed Amount of IDA Credit and Project Financing
4.13      The foreign exchange component of the project to be financed by
IDA is estimated to be US$14 million. The remaining project cost of US$16.4
million and FEECs and customs duty of US$12.1 million would be met by the
Government and internal resources of WDB and the municipalities concerned.
D. Implementation
The Executing Agency
4.14      The executing agency, WDB, has substantially completed the detailed
engineering design of the project and will also supervise construction. WDB
has an adequate engineering staff for this purpose, and would form a separate
group of engineers under the supervision of an Assistant General Manager to
implement the project. The Government has recognized the possible loss of a
number of experienced engineers to overseas markets during the course of the
project, and proposes to make available additional competent engineers from
other Government agencies to supervise the project if the need should arise.
Alternatively, the Government has agreed to engage local consulting engineers
to carry out the work.
The Project Schedule
4.15      Tenders for pumps, pipes and equipment will be called during 1977
immediately followed by tenders for civil works. WDB has prepared procurement
documents for urgently needed foreign equipment and may place orders for some
items prior to the credit becoming effective. Some civil works contracts may
be in progress by the last quarter of 1977 and the bulk of construction work
will take place during 1978 and 1979. The project is expected to be substan-
tially completed by December 1980, as shown graphically in the construction
schedule in Annex 7.
Procurement
4.16      All contracts would be awarded under international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with the Association's Guidelines, with the
exception of contracts under US$100,000 and totalling not more than US$0.5
million, which would not justify the more complex procedures of international
competitive bidding, and would not attract foreign bidders. Such contracts
would be awarded under local bidding procedures acceptable to the Association
and described in Annex 8. Foreign bidders are expected to win all contracts



- 11 -
for treatment plant equipment, pumping equipment, specialized work of mains
renovation and for a large portion of the pipes. Sri Lankan contractors are
expected to win all other contracts. It is probable that PVC or cast-iron
pipes that are manufactured in Sri Lanka will be appropriate for some dis-
tribution mains; a 15% margin of preference (or applicable tariffs, whichever
is less) would be allowed for these, and any other locally manufactured items,
in evaluating bids. Similarly a margin of preference of 7.5% is proposed for
local civil works contractors.
Land Acquisition and Way Leaves
4.17      The majority of the areas of privately owned land required for the
project have been purchased. No difficulty is anticipated in acquiring the
small areas of land still required. Negotiated easements for pipelines will
be arranged in accordance with established practice whereby actual costs of
damage to crops or property caused by construction are reimbursed. No delays
in this connection are anticipated.
E. Disbursements
4.18      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a five-year
period. An estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 9. Disburse-
ments would be made against:
(i) Equipment
100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs)
for locally manufactured goods, or 60% of local
expenditures for imported goods procured locally.
(ii) Civil Works
100% of foreign expenditure for foreign contractors and
36% of expenditures for local contractors for the con-
struction of headworks 1/ and transmission mains.
(iii) Consultants Services and Training
100% of foreign expenditures.
Any savings on the completion of the project would be cancelled.
1/   Headworks comprise intakes, pumping and treatment facilities.



- 12 -
F. Environmental and Health Impact
4.19      The expansion and improvement of water supply facilities will
increase the volumes of sewage both in urban areas where there is no piped
collection system, and in the Colombo area, where the capacity of the
sewerage system is not adequate to meet present flows. The disposal of
sewage from the areas in question, which has been thoroughly studied by
experts under the Master Plan, will not pose a problem since distant offshore
outfalls will be constructed as recommended. However, further studies are
necessary in connection with improvement and extension of the collection
system. The Government proposes to undertake these improvements and has
requested technical assistance, under the project, to update the MIaster Plan
proposals and prepare final designs for Colombo, Towns South, Negombo and
Galle (Annex 4).
4.20      In the less densely populated urban areas the shallow wells, which
in some districts are the only water source, are often contaminated by the
household or community sanitation systems such as septic tanks, pit latrines
or soakage pits. With the advent of piped water systems under this project
the use of many of the existing shallow wells will be discontinued thus con-
tributing to the improvement of environmental health in urban area. Continued
use of some of the individual sanitation systems will then be acceptable and
will defer the need for extension of the more costly piped sewage collection
systems.
V. THE PROJECT ENTITY
A. Establishment
5.01      The recipient of the credit, the Government of Sri Lanka would re-
lend the credit amount to the executing agency WDB. Legislation for the crea-
tion of WDB was enacted in 1974 and is the statutory framework governing
the sector; it provides for WDB to operate water and sewerage facilities with
a parallel provision for local authorities to operate their own facilities,
subject to WDB and Ministry approval. The 1974 Law also deals with general
operational matters, including rates for water supply and sewerage, and pres-
cribes penalties for pollution of water sources used for water supply.
5.02      WDB is a corporate body consisting of 8 members appointed by the
Minister of Local Government; 4 members are government officers from the
Ministries of Local Government, Health and Planning and Economic Affairs.
The remaining four members are appointed from among interested citizens
having experience in engineering, finance, public health, administration or
law.



- 13 -
B. Organization and Management
5.03      The headquarters of WDB is located in Ratmalana, a suburb of Colombo,
but several regional offices are maintained in locations throughout the
country depending on the development works being implemented in the various
regions. Annex 10, a diagram of the organizational structure of WDB, shows
the principal officers and executive grades. The General Manager is the
chief executive, the Deputy General Manager is responsible for technical
functions, and finance is the responsibility of an assistant general manager.
Prior to November 1976, assistant general managers were also responsible for
planning, construction, operations, maintenance, training and personnel
functions. However, the Board recently decided that organization on a
geographical rather than a functional basis would be preferable, and the
existing 8 regions, into which the WDB area is presently divided, became
subdivisions of three "ranges" each of which is administered by an assist-
ant general manager--under the Deputy General Manager--assisted by a chief
engineer. The three ranges broadly divide the country into southern,
central and northern areas. The headquarters functions of planning, design
and training will continue to be responsibilities of the Deputy General
Manager, but will be controlled by senior officers rather than assistant
general managers, as was formerly the case.
5.04      Because the project forms a large part of the total water supply
program, WDB propose to form a special unit, under an additional assistant
general manager, to be responsible for project implementation (Annex 10).
WDB has undertaken to form such a unit, with staffing functions and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to IDA, prior to commencement of the project.
5.05      WDB has capable and experienced engineering staff who are competent
to design and construct works to a satisfactory standard. The approved
establishment for engineers is 70 of which about 20 posts were vacant at the
time of appraisal. During the past 2 to 3 years there has been difficulty in
re-taining experienced engineers in the face of more attractive terms of service
being offered in some foreign countries. There appears to be no immediate
means of reversing this trend, and since suitably experienced engineers are
not available for local recruitment--there are insufficient incentives to
attract foreign engineers--the standard of WDB engineering expertise may
continue to decline, ultimately requiring assistance of consultants to imple-
ment a major portion of the development works; if necessary, engineers for the
project may be diverted from other Government departments (paragraph 4.14).
The Government regards the situation more optimistically, since there is a
surplus of new (although inexperienced) graduate engineers to fill the gap.
Deficiencies in organization and management are less severe and can be over-
come by recruitment and suitable training programs.
5.06      WDB recognizes the need to improve its financial and management
capabilities, and a project training program (Annex 3) includes financial
management, and public utility accounting. It would also be desirable to
delegate the responsibility of investment planning to a financial executive



- 14 -
at senior management level. At present investment planning is not carried
out satisfactorily; however, WDB proposes that this duty will be made the
responsibility of a senior officer reporting to the Board.
C. Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities
5.07      In addition to its national role as the principal agency in the
sector concerned with planning, design and construction, WDB also operates
and maintains water supply facilities in some areas.
5.08      Under the present arrangement in the project area, the Colombo
Municipal Council operates two major sources of water, (Labugama and
Kalatuwawa) and their associated treatment and transmission systems. WDB
supplements this supply by providing water in bulk from its Ambatale source
to Colombo and Towns South, each of which operates its own distribution
system. Towns North, Kalutara and Ambalangoda have no piped water systems.
5.09      The Master Plan report recommended that water demands of the
Greater Colombo area, to the year 2000, should be met from the existing
sources of supply, with suitable staged extension of the facilities at
Ambatale as required. The report also recommended that, as a least cost
solution, the sources and transmission systems should be operated as an
integrated system, by one authority.
5.10      The Government has taken several major steps toward implementing
the Master Plan institutional recommendations. These steps have included
the formation of WDB (January 1975) and the completion of a study and report
by the National Institute of Management (NIM) to identify the most acceptable
institutional reform that would enable one agency to operate the integrated
system of water supply facilities serving Colombo Municipality and adjacent
towns. In September 1976 the National Planning Council, under the chairman-
ship of the Prime Minister, decided that the integrated system should be
implemented and that the system would be operated by WDB. Based upon this
decision, the institutional organization within the project area, proposed
by the Ministry of Local Government, is as follows:
(i)  WDB will operate the integrated facilities to supply
water in bulk to Colombo Municipality, Towns South
and Towns North.
(ii) Colombo Municipality and Towns South Municipalities
will operate and maintain their respective distri-
bution systems. These authorities will also render
bills and collect water revenue.
(iii) The whole of the proposed water systems for Towns
North, Kalutara and Ambalangoda will be operated



- 15 -
and maintained by WDB which will also render bills
and collect revenue in respect of these areas.
The Government has agreed to establish this institutional organization for
the greater Colombo area by January 1, 1978. Agreed institutional arrange-
ments for Towns North, Ambalangoda and Kalutara will be established as water
supply systems for these areas are completed.
5.11      Although Colombo Municipality and local authorities in Towns South
are responsible for operation and maintenance of their own distribution systems,
it is envisaged that WDB will assist the small authorities with any major dis-
tribution works and also periodically examine all distribution systems in
the project area to ensure that there is no undue leakage. For this purpose,
WDB proposes to establish a leakage detection unit, with the assistance of a
training component under this project. WDB has undertaken to carry out dis-
tribution inspections, provide assistance as required and assume responsibility
for systems in which the Ministry of Local Government considers that the
standards of operation and maintenance are below a satisfactory level.
D. Accounting
5.12      As a recent successor to a Government Department, WDB inherited an
accounting system designed for government departments financed out of a con-
solidated pool of government revenue. The accounts were primarily a record
of cash receipts and payments and neither a balance sheet nor income state-
ment was prepared. The accounting records consisted mainly of appropriation
ledgers with the primary purpose of ensuring that no money was spent con-
trary to the intention of the legislature, which placed the emphasis on the
control of cash with little regard for operating results.
5.13      A legacy of this system has been neglect of financial control as
a management tool. At this stage of WDB's development the major deficien-
cies bearing on the financial operations that need to be corrected are:
(i) management's lack of understanding and acceptance of the role of
finance in WDB's operation; (ii) senior financial posts that have not been
filled; (iii) the absence of an accounting system and procedures suitable
for WDB's operation; (iv) lack of coordination between the engineering and
financial functions, both of which are now operating in isolation; (v) the
absence of any Financial Regulations defining financial policy and proce-
dures for WDB.
5.14      It is understandable that these deficiencies would exist at this
stage of WDB's development, and while action has already commenced to correct
some of them, understanding and acceptance by management of the role of
finance will take time; correction will only evolve as WDB's officers gain
experience with a commercial type of operation.



- 16 -
5.15      Two of the four senior finance posts, including that of the Chief
Financial Officer, have been filled and WDB is actively seeking to fill two
other presently vacant senior finance posts as well as other vacancies in
the accounting department. An Office of Internal-Audit has been created
which will report directly to the Chairman and a search is underway to fill
the post of Internal Auditor and to staff the audit office. WDB through
the Government has made application to the United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas
Development (ODM) for the services of an accounting and financial advisor for
two years to assist in implementing suitable accounting methods and procedures
as recommended by earlier consultants (Howard Humphreys). WDB agreed that the
advisor's work should be supplemented with expert assistance from a local
accounting/management firm of which there are several with demonstrated
competency. Details would be finalized after reviewing the situation with
the advisor when appointed.
5.16      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following items,
together with a timetable for their implementation:
(i)  Senior finance posts will be filled and the
accounting department will be adequately staffed.
(ii) Appropriate measures will be taken to ensure close
coordination between the Engineering and Finance
Departments.
(iii)  Action will be taken to implement recommendations made
by former consultants for establishing (a) a commercial
accounting system, (b) a financial control system, (c)
a purchasing and stores system and (d) an internal
auditing system.
(iv) A set of Financial Rules/Regulations will be established
for WDB.
E. Audit
5.17      The Sri Lanka Finance Act, No. 38, of 1971, which governs the audit
of WDB, stipulates that the Auditor General shall be its auditor, and that for
the purpose of assisting in the audit, he may employ the services of any
qualified auditor who shall act under his direction and control.
5.18      IDA would wish to receive what is known as a long-form audit report
which, in addition to certifying that the accounts fairly represent the
financial position and operating results, contains supplementary information,
including comments on the individual account items and the scope of the exam-
ination.  In addition, the auditor should advise WDB of any material deficien-
cies or weaknesses in the accounting system or in the overall system of in-
ternal control, and recommend improvements.



- 17 -
5.19      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Association's
standard audit covenant will be adopted so as to provide for (i) an audit,
each fiscal year, of WDB's accounts and financial statements in accordance
with sound auditing principles, consistently applied; and (ii) sending to
the Association, no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year,
certified copies of the year's financial statements and an audit report of
appropriate scope and detail. The Auditor General, who has performed ade-
quate audits and submitted satisfactory reports in other Bank projects in
Sri Lanka, would perform WDB's annual audit.
F. Local Authorities
5.20      Colombo Municipality, with a population of 608,000, is by far the
largest municipal council in Sri Lanka. Colombo consumed some 60% of WDB's
1976 water production, in addition to what it used from its own sources
of supply. Its Water Works Department handles all technical and administra-
tive functions related to the provision of water supply in the Municipality,
except for the billing and collection of property valuation rates and arrange-
ments for the raising and repayment of capital.
5.21      Under Colombo's Water Works Ordinance, no specific charges are
made for water except for some metered commercial consumers and the supply
to shipping; thus, water supply revenue in Colombo bears no relationship to
the 30% general property valuation rate. No appropriation to water service
is made from this levy which is charged irrespective of whether a particular
property is privately connected, the only financial effect of connection
being a revision of the property valuation.
5.22       The Waterworks Department maintains separate water supply accounts,
and while the accounting system is reasonably well run, it contains some
anomalies, such as having no provision for depreciation or renewals of water
works assets, nor is an asset register maintained; the revenue account re-
flects only a small amount of what normally would be water supply revenue
which distorts the operating results by showing the Department operating at
a loss when even a modest allocation of the 30% property tax would show it
as having positive operating results.
5.23       The five Towns South, with a combined population of 444,000, con-
sumed about 27% of WDB's 1976 water production. The water supply function
in each of the authorities is headed by a water works superintendent whose
staff may number anywhere from 20 to 50, depending upon the size of the
authority and its distribution system. The staff provides consumer con-
nections and carries out minor mains extension, as required. None of the
staff has any professional engineering competence, and no capability exists
for the design of system reinforcements nor for analysis of the hydraulic
performance of the existing systems; however, WDB will assist local author-
ities in works of this type (paragraph 5.11).



- 18 -
5.24       Each of the five Towns' water supply services is conducted as
part of a council's general administration with no separation of accounts
and no attempt to allocate a specific portion of total annual revenue for
water supply, even though in the past when piped water supply was brought
to an area, the property valuation rate was raised by 6%. Under the pro-
posed project, separate accounts for water supply are to be established
(see paragraph 6.23).
VI. FINANCE
A. Background
6.01      WDB was recently transformed from the government Department of Water
Supply, where it functioned as a mainly technical entity, into a Board with
broad autonomy and characteristics of a public utility enterprise. It is now
in the process of changing an inherited government-type accounting system into
a commercial accounting system appropriate to a public utility. At the same
time it is having to recruit and train staff for its accounting department.
This situation has severely hampered the availability and preparation of
meaningful financial data, requiring the financial projections in this report
to be based on a number of assumptions, which are reasonable but which will
need to be reviewed in the course of executing the works program.
B. Past Operation and Present Financial Position
6.02      The 1975 and 1976 financial results (Annex 11) discussed below are
based on WDB's provisional unaudited accounts.
6.03      WDB appears to have incurred deficits in its first two years of
operation with operating revenues in 1975 and 1976 of Rs 5.7 million and
Rs 10.5 million and operating expenses of Rs 10.9 million and Rs 13.0 mil-
lion, respectively. The substantial difference between the two years'
operating revenues is partly due to a Government payment of Rs 3.2 million
to WDB in 1976 for water supplied to holy places and in lieu of a tariff
increase. These operating results reflect the Board's very low average
charge for bulk water of about Rs 0.60 (US$0.08)/1,000 Ig, whereas average
cost is about Rs 1.00.
6.04      In constructing the first balance sheet (Annex 12), WDB has recorded
as fixed assets those assets formerly managed by the Department of Water Supply,
using a valuation based on historical cost and taking into account estimated
depreciation. Accotnts receivable (see paragraph 6.05) are very high amount-
ing to over three years' annual billings.  WDB shows no long-term debt for
fiscal year 1976 and shows an accumulated deficit on revenue account. Thus,



- 19 -
the foregoing indicates that WDB has commenced its operations with a relatively
small amount of fixed assets in relation to future expansion, a heavy backlog
of accounts receivable, and a deficit, all shown as financed by Government
equity contributions. These accounts are being audited by the Auditor General
of Sri Lanka and will be formally established after any adjustments or changes.
C. Billing and Collection
6.05      The high level of arrears, totalling Rs 22.2 million and amounting
to three years' billings for both private and municipal consumers, is related
to two main factors:
(i) the unsystematic and casual way in which billing
was done by the Department of Water Supply; and
(ii) the reluctance of local authorities to pay for water.
Instead of being handled by the Finance Division, billing and collection was
supervised by an engineer in the Operations and Maintenance Division, where
the work was considered to be a chore. Meters were read late and bills were
not only issued late but were erroneously dispatched and did not indicate
arrears; little action was ever taken against defaulters.
6.06      WDB is taking remedial measures to begin to correct these deficien-
cies, and has engaged the NIM of Sri Lanka to review the billing and collec-
tion system and to make recommendations for ensuring that the procedures are
put on a sound basis. Water bills now indicate arrears and are being rendered
in much less time; WDB has decided to cut off water supply to defaulting pri-
vate customers; and the Ministry of Local Government is holding meetings with
heads of local authorities for reviewing arrears. There have been instances
where a local authority, which has continued in default, has been (for this
and other reasons) dissolved by the Ministry of Local Government and brought
under a Special Commissioner.
6.07      Of the Rs 22.2 million arrears, some of which date back to 1968,
it is understood that Rs 10 million are to be written off as directed by a
Cabinet decision. About Rs 20 million are in respect of the local authori-
ties, all of which, with the exception of Colombo Municipality, are heavily
in arrears. During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government
will take the necessary measures to ensure that future bills rendered by WDB
for water supplied to the local authorities are duly paid and further, that
Government will cause the local authorities to ensure the prompt payment of
all consumers' water bills.



- 20 -
D.  Tariffs
Background
6.08      In the past, Government's financing policy for the sector has
tended toward providing "free'7 water by indirectly charging for it through
property tax levied on households which, even on the notional allocations as
published, has not covered costs, nor provided an incentive to conserve
water. There are however indications that the policy is changing in favor
of direct consumer charges based on usage as evidenced from the recent meter-
ing of the Kandy and Galle systems and the intention to meter the Kalutara
and Ambalangoda systems.
6.09      Under the National Water Supply and Drainage Board Law of 1974,
WDB with the approval of the Minister is empowered to levy charges for
the supply of water; however, no rules or regulations formally establishing
tariff policy have been issued. (Agreement, including a timetable, was
reached during negotiations for WDB to establish regulations for its
operations, see paragraph 5.16.)
Bulk Supply
6.10      WDB operates most of the water production (sources, transmission
and treatment) works in the country, and as a bulk supplier, supplies most
of its treated water to local authorities for distribution to consumers;
it also directly supplies water to a relatively few commercial users.
Charges to the local authorities range from Rs 0.40 (US$0.055) to Rs 0.60
(US$0.08), and to the commercial consumers from Rs 0.75 (US$0.10) to Rs 3.00
(US$0.41)/1,000 Ig, depending upon the type of consumer. The average charge
is about Rs 0.60/1,000 Ig. Tariffs for bulk supply are the same as those that
were levied by the Department of Water Supply and have not been changed in
the last seven years. WDB's provisional operating results for 1975 and
estimated results for 1976 show that these charges are insufficient to
cover operating expense or even cash outgoings.
6.11      While WDB's present charges for bulk water have not covered operat-
ing expense and an early tariff increase is required, it may be politically
difficult and take a number of years for WDB, as the bulk supplier, and for
the water retailing authorities to achieve acceptable rates of return, be-
cause: (i) in most areas in Sri Lanka realistic rates have rarely been
charged; (ii) consumers in many areas including Colombo and its environs are
not aware of the costs associated with piped water and continue to regard it
as a free commodity; (iii) the Colombo Municipality has objected to the inte-
grated scheme under which it would lose some of the cheaper water from its
long established gravity supply systems; and (iv) revenues from a large part
of the investment in the project will not be realized until capacities of
certain components are more fully utilized during the period 1982-1990.



- 21 -
6.12      WDB's management, while realizing the need for higher tariffs to
eventually provide an acceptable rate of return, therefore feels that the
increases should be spread over a period of years. This is a realistic
approach and is the basis underlying the proposed tariff covenant discussed
in paragraph 6.18.
Retail Supply
6.13      The cost of providing water supply in the local authorities' areas,
along with the cost of all other local government services, is primarily
borne out of the yield of the general rates levied on the annual value of
assessed property; water supply thus must compete with these other services
for its share of a limited income. Supplies other than for domestic purposes
are generally metered, but metering has not been applied to domestic supplies
in the project area.
6.14      For those authorities in the project area with piped water, the
total rates on property value, which are established every five years to meet
estimated revenue requirements of the authorities, are 30% for Colombo Muni-
cipality and 18% or 21% for authorities, of the five Towns South. It is
the practice of Colombo Municipality not to identify that portion applicable
to water; in the five Towns South it varies from 6% to 9%. Charges for metered
supply, primarily commercial consumers, vary among the local authorities and
range from Rs 1.00 to Rs 5.00/1,000 Ig.
6.15      On the basis of figures provided by Colombo Municipality at the
request of the mission, these charges and rates are more than sufficient to
cover operating expense as well as debt service, making Colombo the only
authority in the project area with positive results for water supply opera-
tions. Two main factors influencing these results are that (i) the property
value is high in Colombo, and (ii) the cost of water to Colombo is low because
of gravity fed supply from its own impounding reservoirs and also because WDB
is selling its water below cost.
6.16      In the five Towns South, no attempt is made to segregate water
supply accounts from other services. The appraisal mission endeavored to
calculate water supply revenues and expenses for each of the Towns South;
these estimates suggest that the present rates and charges do not cover
operating costs. All of the Towns South have defaulted in meeting current
billings for bulk supply and are also in default for debt service on Govern-
ment loans.
Tariff Study
6.17      A properly structured and adequate tariff system cannot be intro-
duced in the short term; and in order to begin to evolve a rational system
for Sri Lanka, it will be necessary to undertake a tariff study taking into
account such factors as: (i) differing costs of providing water supply;
(ii) the different categories of consumers, i.e. domestic, commercial,



- 22 -
industrial, and their ability to pay; (iii) the need to provide minimum
quantities of water to low income groups (iv) the alternatives to full sub-
sidization of standpipe supplies; (v) reduction of waste; and (vi) the extent
to which it would be feasible to self-finance capital investment and to imple-
ment marginal cost pricing. Assurances were obtained that the Government will
commission a tariff study for the project area by competent experts, and under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA to be completed by March 31, 1978 and will
promptly thereafter cause their recommendations as agreed with IDA to be
implemented.
Tariff Covenant
WDB
6.18      It is estimated that WDB's operations in the project area now pro-
duce about 80% of its total revenue. No detailed projections are available
for WDB's operations outside the project area. In view of the foregoing, a
rate of return covenant is proposed only for WDB's operations in the project
area. WDB, in establishing a tariff for the project area, needs to ensure
that the level is such as to generate sufficient revenues to cover operating
expenses and debt service, and to begin financing a portion of the capital
investment from internal cash generation. This should be done however with-
out losing sight of the effect on its customers, the distribution authorities
and their consumers. In view of the foregoing, a rate of return of 5% in
1978, rising to 7% in 1982 would be a realistic target for WDB for the project
area. It would meet WDB's financial requirements (see paragraph 6.26) while
holding the average charge for bulk water to within reasonable limits: fore-
casts show an average charge of Rs 0.96 (US$0.13)/1,000 Ig in 1978, rising to
Rs 2.20 (US$0.30) in 1983. The tariffs would again be reviewed after the
study.
6.19      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that WDB would,
beginning with fiscal year 1978 in respect of its operations in the project
area, maintain tariffs at least at a level to produce revenues sufficient
to earn a minimum rate of return of 5% on reasonably valued average net fixed
assets in service, and on the same basis earn a minimum rate of return of
6% in 1979, 1980 and 1981 and 7% in 1982, and thereafter. Considering the
immediate need for higher tariffs to permit WDB sufficient revenues to begin
covering operating expenses, assurances were also obtained that an interim
increase acceptable to IDA would be implemented not later than October 1, 1977.
It is anticipated that this increase would be about 45%, initially raising
the average charge per 1,000 Ig from Rs 0.60 to Rs 0.88.
6.20      While no rules or regulations formally establishing a tariff policy
have been issued (paragraph 6.09), WDB has the objective of making water sup-
ply financially self-supporting. But in view of the lack of detailed data
for operations outside the project area, it would not be appropriate at this



- 23 -
stage to require agreement on a tariff covenant in the form of a rate of
return for these operations. However, during negotiations, assuranices were
obtained that revenues will be sufficient so that operations outside the
project area are not subsidized by revenues from the project area.
6.21      For purposes of cost control, formulating and applying tariffs,
and overall financial planning, WDB will need to establish costing systems
in respect of each of the schemes to which it furnishes water, and also
establish and maintain separate accounts for the project area. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that these systems and accounts will
be established to take effect from January 1, 1978.
Local Authorities
6.22      The following factors must be taken into account in considering
tariff criteria for the local authorities:
(i) Other than for Colombo Municipality, there are no
separate water supply accounts at present.
(ii) Capital accounting is not practiced so that the
value of fixed assets on which a rate of return
is calculated is unknown; similarly no charge
for depreciation is ascertainable.
6.23      While it is Government's policy that the local authorities become
financially self-sufficient in the long-term, the foregoing factors and the
lack of information available for framing a suitable tariff structure (see
paragraph 6.17) preclude a rate of return covenant at this time. However,
during negotiations assurances were obtained that revenues will be suffi-
cient to cover at least cash operating expenses and debt service. Agreement
was also reached that Government will cause each local authority to estab-
lish separate accounts for its water supply operations to take effect from
January 1, 1978, and further, that revenue derived from these operations
will not be diverted to other purposes.
Retail Tariff Estimates
6.24      While it is not possible to be more precise as to retail tariffs
at this time, the tariff study together with the separate water supply
accounts will illuminate many of the presently unquantified factors that
need to be considered in setting tariffs. In the meantime, due to the lack
of detailed information, only a rough estimate can be made as to what the
retail tariff level might be. In making the estimate, certain assumptions
are made, namely: (i) a metering program, as planned, will commence in Towns
South and Colombo; (ii) Towns North, Kalatura and Ambalangoda will be metered
from the out-set, as provided in the project; (iii) a higher bulk rate as pro-
posed in this report will be in effect; and (iv) the assessed valuation of
property will increase by 20% between 1976 and 1981 (WDB's estimate based



- 24 -
on past increases). On the basis of these assumptions, an indication of
retail tariff levels that would have been needed in 1976 to cover estimated
cash operating expenses and debt service and of those which would be needed
in 1981 is as follows:
1976                          1981
Charge per                      Charge per /a
Local Authority   Water Rate  or  1,000 Ig (Rs)  Water Rate  or  1,000 Ig (Rs)
Colombo                 3%             .33 /b           21%         2.70 (2.60)
Towns South       6% to 9%            1.02              24%         3.00 (2.40)
Ambalangoda             -               -                -          6.25 (3.65)
Kalatura                -                                           6,50 (4.40)
Towns North                                              -          3.20 (1.95)
/a   The figures in parentheses are the estimated charges were Government
to subsidize standpipe supply (see paragraph 6.25).  Charges of
Rs 3.00 and Rs 5.00, as appropriate, are used in economic rates of
return (paragraph 7.10).
/b   This charge is extremely low because of Colombo's present access
to cheap water from its own sources.
Subsidy for Poorer Group of Consumers
6.25      Water supplied to the poorest consumers through standpipes is nor-
mally provided free of charge in cities where the tariff is based on metered
consumption; where the tariff is based on property values, however, such con-
sumers would no doubt be contributing nominal amounts as taxpayers toward the
cost of their supply. In either case, there would be cross-subsidization from
other wealthier consumers, but it is possible that Government may wish to
relieve the other consumers of part of this burden by an operating subsidy to
the retail distribution authorities, especially in these local authorities
where, except for Colombo, a substantial part of the supply (from 20% to 40%)
will be by standpipe. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, in
keeping with Government's present policy, any subsidy will not exceed the
estimated cost of standpipe supplies, except in the case of extreme drought or
other emergencies.
E. Financing Plan
6.26      A forecast of sources and applications of funds for WDB for the
seven-year period 1977-1983 is at Annex 13. The assumptions used are those
contained in Annex 15, upward adjustments in tariffs and execution of the
construction program as planned. A financing plan for all WDB operations
during the five-years 1977-1981 covering the construction period of the
proposed project is summarized below:



- 25 -
Water Supply and Drainage Board
Period of IDA Project - 1977-1981
Requirements                             Rs Thousands      US$ Thousands    %
Proposed project (including taxes
and FEECs)                             309,603           42,528        52
Other projects (including taxes
and FEECs)                             268,493           36,881        46
Working capital increase                      13,490            1,853         2
Total requirements                     591,586           81,262       100
Sources
Internal cash generation                     86,345            11,860       15
Less:  Debt Service                            3,765              517         1
Net internal cash generation            82,580           11,343        14
Government equity and grants /a             318,009            43,683       54
Borrowings:  IDA credit                      101,920           14,000        17
Government /a                   89,077           12,236        15
Total borrowings                       190,997           26,236        32
Total sources                          591,586           81,262       100
/a   Government policy is to make loans for financing of distribution
systems and make grants for headworks' capital investment.
6.27      While the financing plan shows the Government providing funds to
WDB amounting to Rs 407 million over the five-year period 1977-81, the net
flow of funds from Government by virtue of WDB's operations would in fact
be much less. When taking into account those funds accruing to Government
in respect of FEECs, customs duties and debt service, the net flow of funds
from Government to WDB reduces from Rs 407 million to about Rs 235 million.
6.28      The foregoing financing plan indicates that WDB would provide 14%
of its requirements from internal sources, which is only a moderate con-
tribution, but is acceptable at this early stage of WDB's operation since:
(i) revenues from presently low tariffs do not cover cash outgoings; (ii) re-
venues from a large part of the investment in the project will not be realized
until capacities of certain components are more fully utilized during the
period 1982 to 1990; (iii) the size of the total planned construction program,
though modest in relation to the needs of the sector, is large in comparison
to past capital expansion; and (iv) the program is inflated by costs for FEECs
amounting to an estimated Rs 123 million, about 21% of WDB's total program
costs, which will be partly a Government equity contribution, and partly a
Government loan.



- 26 -
6.29      The proposed IDA credit of US$14 million equivalent, which would
cover the foreign exchange requirement, would provide 17% of the total financ-
ing required during the project period; Government would provide 54% as
equity and grants and 15% as loans. In view of the points cited in para-
graph 6.28 and considering that WDB is a new entity, the financing plan as
shown is reasonable.
6.30      The on-lending terms for the IDA credit would be at 9% for 24 years,
including a five-year grace period; interest would be waived during the grace
period in order to relieve WDB of some debt service during this critical period
of its early operations. The terms for the Government loans are at 5% interest
and 30 years including five years of grace; there is also a waiver of interest
payments for these borrowings during the grace period. The debt associated
with those assets constructed by WDB and to be handed over to the local
authorities (paragraph 2.05) would be serviced in the first instance by WDB
and recovered from the local authorities; this has been the procedure under
the Department of Water Supply. During negotiations the foregoing financial
arrangements were confirmed. Also, assurances were obtained that the Govern-
ment will make available all necessary funds as required to carry out the
proposed project, and that arrangements satisfactory to IDA will be made
for ensuring WDB's recovery of debt service from the local authorities in
respect of the assets transferred to these authorities. An acceptable on-
lending agreement is a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Credit.
F. Future Finances
6.31      WDB's forecast income statements covering 1977-1983 are shown
separately for total operations and for operations in the project area at
Annexes 11 and 14 respectively; forecast balance sheets and cash flow state-
ments for the same period for total operations are at Annexes 12 and 13.
These statements are based on assumptions contained in Annex 15. In respect
of the project area, net operating income is forecast to increase from Rs 4.3
million in 1978 to Rs 23.9 million in 1983, reflecting tariff increases and the
larger volume of water handled, by reason of the transfer of Colombo Municipal-
ity's two reservoirs to WDB and the increase in water processed at the Ambatale
treatment plant. During the 1977-1983 period total operating revenues are ex-
pected to more than double initially in 1978 over 1977, reflecting higher
tariffs and the doubling of the volume of water sold, due to the Board's
taking over the two reservoirs; revenues would then increase at ar. average
annual rate of 24% over the next five years. Operating expenses are projected
to approximately double in 1978 with the expanded installations and then to
increase at an average annual rate of 17%.
6.32      These illustrative forecasts for the project area indicate that
a rate of return would begin to be achieved, amounting to 5% on average
net plant in service in 1978, rising to 7% in 1982. The operating ratio
is satisfactory, showing substantial improvement during the period under



- 27 -
review. These forecast operating results for the project area would be satis-
factory, permitting WDB to finance some 30% of its total capital requirements
over the three years, FY1981 through FY1983, compared with only about 11%
during the preceding four years.
6.33      The rates of return achieved on total operations are shown to be
lower than those achieved on operations in the project area, since under tb-
tariff covenant, WDB would, in respect of its operations outside the project
area, move from a deficit operating position to one of merely covering operat-
ing expense plus any debt service. On this basis, following a substantial
deficit in 1976, WDB is shown to earn a rate of return of 1.9% in 1977 on
total operations, rising to about 4% by 1982/83.
6.34      Forecast balance sheets reflecting WDB's total operations indicate
that during the five years 1977-1981 the value of net fixed assets in service
is expected to increase sixfold, because the expansion program is large in
relation to the present small amount of fixed assets. The debt/equity ratio
would rise from zero in 1976 to 26/74 in 1981. A satisfactory margin for
further borrowing would still remain, and WDB's overall financial position
would be satisfactory.
Debt Limitation Covenant
6.35      Though forecasts show that WDB would maintain a conservative
debt/equity ratio and would have no problem in meeting its debt service,
it is prudent to require a debt limitation covenant. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that WDB will not incur any debt unless historic
12 months' net revenues (before charging depreciation) would cover maximum
future debt service at least 1.5 times.
Performance Indicators
6.36      Performance indicators listed in Annex 16 will help monitor
WDB's performance.
VII.  JUSTIFICATION
7.01      In Colombo, and adjacent towns, water shortages have prompted the
Government to proceed with improvements of headworks at Ambatale. However,
the additional treated water from these headworks cannot be conveyed to
consumers unless foreign exchange is made available for improvement of pumping
and transmission facilities, permitting full benefit to be obtained from pre-
vious investments in Ambatale works.
7.02      In addition to optimizing benefits from recent investments, the
improved Ambatale works together with associated transmission and distribu-
tion improvements would bring water to 0.25 million new consumers in Towns



- 28 -
North, in addition to providing a 24-hour daily service to 1.2 million con-
sumers in Colombo and Towns South in 1981. Without these works, the standard
of service would decline further as the populatior. grows.
7.03      The present water service to southwest coast urban and tourist
centers supplies only part of the population, for part of the time; some areas
have no service at all, and the quality of piped water is sometimes doubtful.
7.04      Because the supply is intermittent, there is an increased risk of
polluted groundwater being drawn into mains during periods of shut-down.
Both the interruption of supply, and the absence of a piped suDply in some
areas, encourage the use of water sources of unsatisfactory quality, includ-
ing shallow well sources frequently polluted by nearby inadequate sanitation
facilities. Health statistics show that water borne diseases are present
in the area and their transmission among the resident population and foreign
tourists is much more likely in the absence of a safe water service.
7.05      The new systems proposed for Kalutara, Ambalangoda and adjacent
communities would provide adequate, safe water to 160,000 new consumers in
1981. Without these works the growth of commerce, industry and tourism in
the area will decline. Continued use of existing shallow well sources, and
their proximity to inadequate sanitation facilities, constitutes a danger
to public health and a consequent risk to the potential growth of the tourist
industry in this area.
7.06      In addition to providing a safe and continuous supply of water to
all sections of the community, the project will extend consumer metering
and will justify a tariff designed to provide sufficient water to meet the
essential daily requirements of the poor at affordable cost, but at the
same time discourage waste and excessive consumption.
7.07      Consultants who carried out the Master Plan and feasibility studies
strongly recommended metering the consumption of individual consumers. Th1e
costs and benefits of metering in Colombo and Towns South -- in the light
of the marginal cost of water (Rs 4.31/1,000 Ig, see paragraph 7.12) and
estimated metering costs -- show that the value of water saved far exceeds
the cost of metering. Metering would be justified if it reduced consumption
of connected consumers by as little as seven gallons per capita per day.
7.08      The project will provide an opportunity for important institutional
improvements in the water sector, particularly in the Colombo area. It will
also assist the newly formed WDB to strengthen its organization.
7.09      In order to achieve the benefits described above at least cost,
project components have been designed for construction in stages, thus pro-
viding reasonable increments in system capacity and avoiding provision of
facilities much larger than those required for projected incremental water
demands shown in Annex 5.



- 29 -
7.10      If economic benefits are measured only by the value of incre-
mental water sales made possible by the project, economic rates of return
based on assumed initial tariffs which are believed to be within consumers'
ability to pay, are as follows:
Colombo
Towns South
and
Towns North    Ambalangoda    Kalutara
Estimated % of Total Project                  64               8             28
Assumed Initial Tariff
Rs/1,000 Ig                               3.00            5.00           5.00
US$/1,000 Ig                              0.34            0.57           0.57
Economic Rate of Return, Assuming:
(i)   Estimates Shown                  7.0             4.6           4.3
(ii)   Revenues Overestimated by 20%  4.0               2.6           2.4
(iii)   Project Cost Underestimated
by 20%                        3.2             1.9            1.7
7.11      Economic rates of return based on estimated project costs which
include FEECs (see Annex 17) are: Colombo 4.8, Ambalangoda 2.9 and Kal-
utara 2.7.
7.12      In the Colombo area, the average incremental cost of water is
Rs 3.6/1,000 Ig (Rs 4.3/1,000 Ig if FEECs are included).  This is based  on
the development of the Ambatale plant where two stages of pumping and rela-
tively expensive water treatment are required. Initial tariffs will reflect
a mixture of this water with substantially cheaper water supplied by gravity
from existing impounding reservoirs. Using these tariffs to compute benefits
understandably gives a low rate of return, and the tariff study will examine
the feasibility of moving to a rate structure based on marginal costs.
7.13      In Ambalangoda and Kalutara calculating a rate of return is conjec-
tural. The project costs are unavoidably high and the assumed tariffs are
no more than sufficient to cover expense without any return on capital. Even
so, tariffs are relatively high and their impact on consumers is unknown
since there is no service at present. By definition, therefore, their use
as a measure of the project benefits yields a low rate of return.
7.14      The somewhat modest rates of return result in part from attributing
no value to the "free" water supplied through standpipes. Furthermore, the
rate of return does not reflect the several intangible benefits to the health
and well-being of the people or the continuing increase in productivity, indus-
try and tourism (Annex 18) which are made possible by a safe and adequate sup-
ply of water; it should therefore be regarded as an indicator of only part of
the benefits which the project provides.



- 30 -
7.15      The ability of various income groups to pay for water will be
thoroughly investigated as part of the proposed tariff study. In the mean-
time however, existing data provides an indication of the probable impact
of realistic tariffs on consumers in Colombo and smaller urban areas.
7.16      The average monthly incomes per household in 1973 in Sri Lanka as
a whole and in urban areas were Rs 310.8 and Rs 397.3 respectively (Annex 17,
Table 2); based on an estimated inflation factor of 1.75, the average in-
comes in 1977 in these categories are Rs 544 and Rs 695. The poverty level
income, received by 25 to 30% of the urban population, is estimated to be about
Rs 454 per household per month (Rs 72 per person per month). Thus, two or
three of the lower income groups will obtain free water from standpipes; and
the lowest income group that will pay for water would have a present average
income of about Rs 500 per month. If an average household has 6 family members,
each consuming about 30 Igcd, then the cost per household in Ambalangoda and
Kalutara, where a tariff of Rs 5/1,000 gallons has been assumed (paragraph
7.10), is Rs 27.0 per month. This is about 5% of the monthly income of that
group, but less than 3% of the income of the next higher group and 4% of the
average income. Similarly, in Colombo, where per capita consumption is expected
to be about 40 Igcd, and the tariff Rs 3.00/ 1,000 Ig (paragraph 7.10) expendi-
ture on water is 4% of the income of this group, 2% of the next higher group
and 3% of the average.
7.17      Thus, the lowest income group which would be required to pay for
water may experience some hardship in meeting these tariffs whereas the next
higher group would experience no difficulty. It would appear from this
rather approximate analysis, that a small portion of the cost of water may
have to be absorbed by the higher income categories and larger consumers,
through suitably structured tariffs.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
issues:
(a) execution of a program of consumer metering and other
appropriate measures to reduce waste of water includ-
ing establishment of facilities for testing and re-
pairing meters (paragraph 4.07);
(b) establishment of a system for routine examination of
water quality by an agency independent of WDB and water
distribution authorities (paragraph 4.08);
(c) installation and maintenance of equipment for the bulk
measurement of water supplied by WDB (paragraph 4.09);



- 31 -
(d)  employment of consultants for a sewerage system design
and for a water tariff study (paragraphs 4.10 and 6.17);
(e)  assignment of adequate, qualified staff to the project
(paragraph 4.14);
(f)  establishment of a specific institutional organization for
the Greater Colombo area by January 1, 1978 and establish-
ment of specific organizations for other areas as required
by the progress of the work (paragraph 5.10);
(g)  execution of specific measures to strengthen WDB financial
operations (paragraph 5.16);
(h)  audit of WDB accounts (paragraph 5.19);
(i)  prompt payment of bills rendered by WDB to local author-
ities and rendered by local authorities to consumers
(paragraph 6.07);
(j)  maintenance of tariffs by WDB at levels to earn in
the project area, a minimum rate of return on average
net fixed assets of 5% in 1978, 6% in 1979 through 1981
and 7% thereafter; and for operations outside the project
area at a level to avoid subsidy from within the project
area (paragraphs 6.19 and 6.20);
(k)  maintenance of retail tariffs by local authorities at
levels to provide revenues sufficient to cover cash
operating expenses and debt service (paragraph 6.23);
(1)  continuation of Government policy to limit water opera-
tion subsidies to the cost of water supplied through
standpipes (paragraph 6.25);
(m)  provision of funds for project completion including satis-
factory terms for onlending of the Credit and for Govern-
ment loans (paragraph 6.30);
8.03      Subject to the condition of effectiveness described in paragraph
6.30 the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$14 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Climate and Water Resources
1.        The Republic of Sri Lanka is a tropical island, located within
latitudes 6 and 10 degrees north and within longitudes 80 and 81 degrees
east. The mean temperatures range from 80 to 82 degrees Fahrenheit in
the low-lands with a seasonal variation of less than 5 degrees. The
major part of the annual rainfall comes from two monsoons, the southwest,
which occurs from May to September, and the northeast from December to
February. The distribution of population in Sri Lanka has been influenced
to a large extent by the distribution of rainfall. There are two distinct
rainfall zones, the wetter zone which covers the southwest quarter of the
island and the drier zone which covers most of the remainder of the island.
The average annual rainfall in each of these zones is 100 inches and 35 inches
respectively, although figures as high as 200 inches per year are recorded at
individual stations in the wet zone.
2.        Large rivers flowing westward from the highlands of the interior
provide abundant water sources for the relatively densely populated western
coastal plain. In contrast, the more sparsely populated drier areas rely
more heavily on groundwater from individual family wells or small community
wells. The small groundwater sources are less costly to develop than the
large complex works required for abstraction and treatment of river water.
Shortages of wholesome, piped water in the southwest urban areas therefore
result from a lack of financial resources for pumping, treatment and distri-
bution of the abundant although polluted river waters.
Population
3.        The first decennial census of 1871 gave the population as 2.4
million which rose to 12.7 in the 1971 census, a 440% increase in 100 years.
The mid-1976 census is estimated by the Department of Census and Statistics
Sri Lanka, as 13.8 million with a current annual national population growth
rate of 1.8%. The population density based on a land area of 25,300 square
miles is 546 persons per square mile.
Levels of Water and Sanitation Services
4.        A summary of water services data from the 1971 census (Table 1)
shows that of 2.6 million people (21% of the total population of 12.7 million)



ANNEX 1
Page 2
living in 135 urban communities, almost 2.0 million people (77% of the urban
population) in 66 communities have piped water supplies, but about four-fifths
of these supplies (serving about 1.6 million people) are judged to be inade-
quate in quantity and are of questionable quality.
5.        The rural community of 9.9 million people (79%) is very poorly
provided for; only 0.4 million (5%) of the 8.8 million rural people (exclud-
ing agricultural estates) have access to piped water. Communities centered
on agricultural estates have a relatively high level of service since almost
0.9 million (75%) estate dwellers have piped water.
6.        From the aspects of the number of people served and the adequacy
and safety of the supplies, it may be concluded that the nation-wide standard
of water supply service is generally very low. There appears, however, to be
an equitable distribution of the water available, a large part of which is
supplied through public standpipes.
7.        In the sanitation subsector a comparatively high percentage of
housing units have acceptable means of excreta disposal, evidence of the
special attention which the Government has customarily paid to developing
public health services. The Department of Health has for some years oper-
ated two subsidy schemes to encourage the construction of latrines in urban
and rural areas. Government policy has traditionally required that sanita-
tion programs are coordinated with water supply programs and are supported
by health education, although this ideal has not always been achieved.
Much still needs to be done to improve and extend the water-borne sewerage
systems in urban areas where about 42% of the urban population have a satis-
factory level of service, 18% have pit latrines and 40% have unsatisfactory
facilities or no service at all. Thus there is a need to provide services
for some I million urban dwellers. The City of Colombo is the only area
served by an urban, water borne sewage collection system, and this system
urgently requires substantial improvement and expansion. The system should
also be extended to include the more densely populated parts of Colombo's
peripheral towns. The Government has requested that engineering studies
and design of these works are included in the project (paragraph 4.10).
8.        In the rural sector about 57% of the population have sanitation
facilities ranging from satisfactory to those reaching the lowest acceptable
standards. Provision of sanitation facilities for the remaining 43% of the
rural population, some 3.7 million people, is within the reach of a Govern-
ment sponsored project since only the simplest form of sanitation, the pit-
latrine, is required in most cases.
9.        The present level of water supplies to both urban and rural areas
is rather lower than that of sanitation, but commendable progress has been
made in both subsectors. Achievements in the sector, although aided by
external agencies have largely resulted from the Government's own efforts
and its own technological and fiscal resources.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Government Objectives
10.       In 1970 the Government resolved to study and make planned provision
for the country's total rural community water supply needs. Subsequently,
the scope of the plan was extended to encompass the provision of safe water
and sanitation for the entire population by the year 2001. This National
Plan, as it was termed, was to have been prepared by WDB with technical
assistance from WHO; however, WDB was unable to continue work on the plan
because of day-to-day demands in the sector, the need to begin to implement
the first stage of the UNDP Master Plan for Colombo and the southwest coastal
area and construction of a program of rural water supply improvements, partly
financed by UNICEF.
11.       The first stage of the National Plan aims to implement a program
of both urban and rural water supply improvements by 1980. This would only
marginally increase the percentage of urban population receiving piped water
but would substantially improve the quality and reliability of urban water
supplies. In the rural regions the aim is to provide 15% of the rural popu-
lation with adequate safe water and to provide 70% of the population with
access to acceptable sanitation facilities. Most of the rural water supply
improvement could be achieved through the construction of family wells and
small community wells. Sanitation improvements would be through programs
and grants for family latrine construction.
Sector Organization
12.       The ministries and agencies connected with water supply and sanita-
tion are:
-    National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) under the
Ministry of Local Government.
-    Territorial Civil Engineering Organization, under the
Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways.
-    Local Authorities whose interests are looked after by
the Ministry of Local Government.
-    Department of Health under the Ministry of Health.
-    Division of Public Health Engineering in the Department
of Buildings under the Ministry of Housing and Construction.
Since its formation in 1975, WDB has been the agency primarily reponsible for
planning, design and construction of water supply systems throughout Sri Lanka.
Most local authorities operate and maintain their own distribution systems
although in some cases this responsibility has remained with WDB. Colombo
Municipality operates its own systems, including sources of supply and
transmission, although these facilities are expected to pass to WDB in
the immediate future.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
The Local Loans and Development Fund
13.       The Commissioner of Local Government is the principal officer of
the Local Loans and Development Fund through which the Government channels
loans for water supplies and a variety of other public works and utilities.
Loans to the Fund presently carry an interest rate of 9-3/4%. For water
supply schemes, the following financing pattern is usually adopted.
For Headworks,
Transmission
and Reservoirs    For Distribution
A. For New Projects
Municipal, urban and
town councils                   100% grant         100% loan
Village councils                 50% grant          50% grant
B. For Augmentation Projects
Municipal, urban and
town councils                    50% grant         100% loan
Village councils                 50% grant          100% loan
Thus, depending on whether a project is new or augments an existing system,
the portion of the project and the type of local authority, financing by
the Government may range from a 100% grant to a 100% loan, channeled through
the Local Loans and Development Fund.
Sector Investment Programs and Constraints
14.       Future goals set by the government for both urban and rural areas
appear to be realistic, in that they require investments within budgetary
constraints associated with the economy of the country, but supplemented by
foreign exchange grants or loans. The Government and WDB are presently pre-
paring a formal investment plan for the sector which includes: urban water
supply projects for the southwest region, for which the Government has re-
quested IDA participation; a rural water supply program, for which UNICEF
financial assistance has been requested and which is a continuation of the
first UNICEF program now being implemented; water supply and sewerage works
in further urban areas, possibly assisted by IDA; continuation of present
small rural sanitation programs. WDB's present tentative plan for urban
water supplies includes new and improved water supplies to 43 communities
in addition to proposals included in this project. The major constraint on
development in the sector arises from the lack of foreign exchange alloca-
tions for some of the vital elements of the water supply and sewerage systems.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
15.       Sri Lanka is desperately short of capital and current inputs of
foreign exchange needed to maintain production in all industries in which
imported plant and machinery, or parts for such items, are necessary. While
it is impossible to develop water supply and sewerage facilities which are
completely independent of foreign equipment, such dependency should be mini-
mized by selection and design of systems incorporating simple local materials
rather than sophisticated imported equipment. The development of industry for
local manufacture of plant, machinery, equipment, etc. -- related to the
water supply and sewerage industry -- would not provide an economic solution
to the problem since these industries tend to be capital intensive and are
frequently based on the use of imported raw materials and foreign technology.
Development of such industries to satisfy only the comparatively small local
demands would not be economic. Alternatively, goods manufactured for the
domestic and export market may not be competitive with those of the more
highly industrialized countries which have advantages in the availability
of technology and raw materials.
16.       The lack of foreign exchange and the potential technical deficiency
of the WDB contribute to a further problem, that of achieving an acceptable
level of operation and maintenance of existing and proposed facilities.
Historically, the responsibility for water supply and sewerage systems rested
with local councils; more recently WDB assumed responsibility for a number of
these systems, either at the request of local authorities or through their
reluctance or inability to efficiently operate their systems. Almost all of
the systems are dilapidated because of the lack of replacement machinery and
parts and because of low standards of maintenace. Thus, WDB is faced with
the tasks of: improving national standards of operation and maintenance;
renovating a number of systems; and planning and developing new systems. The
situation may be improved by: Government providing incentives to retain
the services of WDB engineers; training programs for newly recruited, less
experienced engineers; and the provision of foreign exchange for purchasing
spare parts.
17.       The Government financing policy for the sector is presently chang-
ing from one in which water was regarded as a free good to one in which a
system of specific charges will be levied for both water and sanitation.
Although the eventual structure must await a tariff study, it is envisaged
that the rating system will provide protection for the poor in that quanti-
ties of water essential for the health and welfare of the people will be
provided free or at a very low charge; it is anticipated that considerably
higher charges will be made for water in quantities exceeding this essential
level.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Estimated Access to Piped Water and Sanitation-/
A. Population Distribution
Population       % of Total        Number of
Communities           (millions)       Population       Communities
Urban                  2.6               21                135
Rural                  8.8               70             18,800
Estate                 1.1                9              5,000
B. Population with Services Stated
% of Urban/
Population      Rural/Estate       Number of
(millions)      Population       Communities
Piped Water
Urban                  2.0o2             77                 66
Rural                  0.4                5
Estate                 0.8               75
Sanitation
Ulrban                 1.1               42                   3/
Rural                  5.1               57
Estate                 0.75              68
1/ Based on 1971 Census Figures.
2/ Four-fifths of these supplies serving about 1.6 million people
are judged to be inadequate.
3/ Colombo has the only water-borne sewage collection system.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Description of the Existing Water Supply Arrangements
1.        Colombo and Towns South are the only parts of the project area
which have a piped water service. The remainder of the project area com-
prising Towns North, Ambalangoda and Kalutara, depends on ground water from
privately constructed, shallow well sources.
2.        Colombo is the capital city, principal sea port and center of com-
merce and industry in Sri Lanka. Its piped water supply dates back to the
early 19th century when Colombo obtained water from wells and canals. The
first impounding reservoir and treatment facility at Labugama was completed
in 1886 and an additional, similar facility was constructed on an adjacent
catchment area at Kalatuwawa in 1954. These sources of supply are now supple-
mented by water from the Kelani Ganga, a large river which discharges to the
Indian Ocean, immediately to the north of Colombo city.
3.        The existing water treatment plants at Labugama and Kalatuwawa are
conventional water treatment systems comprising aeration, pre-chlorination,
chemically assisted coagulation, sedimentation, filtration, post-chlorination
and pH adjustment. The plants are operated and maintained by Colombo Munici-
pality and are generally in good condition with the exception of deficiencies
of spare and replacement parts requiring foreign exchange. The capacities of
the plants and the gravity flow transmission system are adequate for reservoir
yields. The works which abstract and treat water from the Kelani Ganga are
located at Ambatale some 9 miles upstream of the river mouth.
4.        The works comprise:  a river water intake, river water pumping
station, a water treatment plant, and a filtered water pumping station.
These facilities are in various stages of expansion at present; their devel-
opment has not been coordinated because of the lack of foreign exchange
required to purchase some of the essential items of plant. The present
position is that expansion of the major part of the Ambatale works from
nominal capacities of 20 Imgd to 40 Imgd will be completed by May 1977.
However, these facilities cannot be fully utilized until expansion of two
vital components -- the filtered water pumps and transmission mains -- are
also completed. These two items require foreign exchange expenditure and
are included in the proposed project.
5.        The yields of the three sources of supply are to some extent depen-
dent on their operation as an integrated system. The long-term safe yield of



ANNEX 2
Page 2
the two reservoirs is 30.5 Imgd, of which 0.5 Imgd is used outside the
project area. The Master Plan studies showed that the safe yield of these
sources may be increased to 32.5 Imgd, if they are operated in conjunction
with a third independent source such as the Kelani Ganga/Ambatale facility.
6.        Under normal operating conditions the total quantity of water
available from the three water sources serving Colombo and Towns South is
54.5 Imgd, of which 30.5 Imgd is drawn from the two impounding reservoirs
and 24.0 Imgd from the Kelani Ganga at Ambatale. Colombo receives a total
of about 35.5 Imgd, 7 Imgd from Ambatale and 28.5 Imgd from the two reser-
voirs; 2 Imgd of the reservoirs' yield is supplied to Towns South from one
of the city's distribution reservoirs. Towns South receives an estimated
total of 19 Imgd made up from the balance of the Amabatale yield (17 Imgd)
and 2 Imgd from Colombo's sources.
7.        In recent years it has become increasingly difficult to maintain
a 24-hour water supply to Colombo without severe depletion of water stored
in the two impounding reservoirs, Kalatuwawa and Labugama. The reduction of
mains pressure in an effort to reduce leakage and waste and to conserve water
has become a frequent necessity. Most of the bulk meters for the measurement
of water from the sources and from distribution reservoirs are unserviceable
because of the lack of replacement parts; it is therefore impossible to formu-
late a precise account of the water drawn from each source or transmitted to
each area of demand. Furthermore, it is not clear when the safe yields of
the impounding reservoirs are being exceeded.
8.   These operating deficiencies and a failure of the southwest monsoon
resulted in a severe water shortage in Colombo in July and August of 1976.
During this period, the supply was reduced to 4 to 6 hours per day, and
the two impounding reservoirs were, for practical purposes, empty. An even
more severe water shortage was averted by obtaining several electrically
operated pumping sets by air-freight from the United Kingdom and completing
their temporary installation at Ambatale by mid-August 1976. The quantity
of water drawn from the Kelani Ganga was thus increased from 24.5 Imgd to
30 Imgd, and some 8 Imgd was drawn from the two impounding reservoirs. The
temporary additional quantity of water obtained from the Kelani Ganga was
put into supply after partial treatment, and it is presumed that this opera-
ting procedure will continue until completion of further works under the
project. Water from the two impounding reservoirs gravitates through bat-
teries of transmission mains to distribution reservoirs in Colombo. Water
from Ambatale is pumped, via part of this transmission system, to the
Colombo reservoirs. Some of the transmission mains and part of the distri-
bution mains network (comprising some 350 miles of pipes) are severely en-
crusted internally, resulting in a reduction in hydraulic capacity. Three
large distribution reservoirs, Elie House, Maligakande and Dehiwala, total
capacity 21.4 Img and eleven small reservoirs and towers, total capacity
4.3 Img serve the Colombo and Towns South areas.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        Consumers in Colombo Municipality are supplied through 45,000 ser-
vice connections and some 750 standpipes. Domestic supplies are unmetered,
but the larger commercial and industrial consumers are metered. Although
metering is claimed to be effective, there are no facilities for meter test-
ing and repair. In Towns South there are 27,000 unmetered domestic connec-
tions, and some 60% of the population is served by standpipes. Throughout
these areas, the piped supply is supplemented by private wells, although
the extent to which this occurs has not been quantified.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Description of the Project
The Project Area
1.        The Master Plan area includes a southwest, coastal strip of the
island stretching some 100 miles from the area immediately to the North of
Negombo to just south of Galle, and having a total area of 430 square miles.
The population of this area is estimated to be 3.5 million , about 25% of
the population of Sri Lanka as a whole. The area contains some 50 communi-
ties and municipal authorities in addition to urban centers of Colombo,
Negombo, Galle, Kalutara and Ambalangoda. A new piped water supply system
for Galle has recently been completed. The project comprises works which
would complete the first stage of the Master Plan water supply recommenda-
tions, and the project area therefore forms that part of the Master Plan
area which includes the urban centers of Colombo, Towns South, Towns North,
Kalutara and Ambalangoda. The communities included in these areas are
listed in Appendix 2 of Annex 2 and are shown in Map IBRD 12531.
2.        Piped water supply systems for Colombo, Towns South and Negombo are
inadequate and are supplemented by dug wells. All other communities in the
area (except Galle) depend entirely on dug wells. However, the coastal plain
alluvial deposits and residual soils in this area provide poor aquifers, and
wells are liable to contamination from surface waters and from latrines, soak-
age pits and cesspools which are widely used as an inexpensive substitute for
water-borne sewerage systems.
Colombo and Its Environs
3.        The Master Plan study projected that water demands in the Greater
Colombo area would reach 132 Imgd by the year 2000 and that this quantity
could be obtained most economically by direct abstraction from the Kelani
Ganga in conjunction with the continued use of the two existing impounding
reservoirs. Five primary alternative arrangements were studied in detail
to determine the most economic production and transmission arrangements.
These studies identified the staged expansion of the Ambatale works as
being the preferred economic means of increasing production, and identified
a transmission system in which the use of existing, but rehabilitated, trans-
mission mains would meet all of the first stage requirements. Under this
alternative, construction of new transmission mains is deferred until 1990,
other than the construction of short link mains from Ambatale to the existing
transmission main battery and the transmission main serving Towns North.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        In the studies of alternative transmission systems, detailed esti-
mates of capital and operating costs were prepared and the system selected
was that which represented the least present-value at a discount rate of 10%.
The selected system requires that existing and new sources, treatment and
transmission facilities be operated as an integrated system by a single entity.
Although the present value analysis indicated that this integrated system has
only a fairly small margin of preference over some of the other alternatives
studied, it clearly has technical and administrative advantages which were not
quantified in the analysis.
5.        The Master Plan accorded high priority to water supply extension to
Towns North where alternative transmission arrangements were examined and a
system comprising a 3-mile long transmission main from Ambatale to a 4 Img
service reservoir at Church Hill was recommended. Improvement of the exist-
ing supply to Towns South was also given high priority. This work primarily
involves strengthening existing transmission and distribution systems and
extension of the distribution system to Attidya.
Kalutara and Ambalangoda
6.        Kalutara and Ambalangoda have no piped water supplies at present,
and complete water supply systems are proposed under the project. The Master
Plan studies selected the development of nearby surface water sources as being
the most economic solutions, but at the same time directed attention to the
need for further data in connection with probable high salinity of the
Aimbalangoda source. Investigation by WDB proved the source to be unsuitable
and an alternative, more distant surface water source was, therefore, selected
for development.
7.        Construction phasing and the sizing of individual components and
work elements of these sub-projects are determined on the basis of least costs
of alternative systems and programs. Least cost analyses have shown that the
optimum capacity of each component of the treatment facilities for Ambalangoda
and Kalutara is that which provides for projected water demands over an 8 to
10-year period, and that the optimum capacity for transmission mains is that
which provides for a 15-year period.
Metering Programs
8.        The project provides for consumer metering of all connections
in areas of new piped supplies, that is in Towns North, Kalutara and Ambal-
angoda. Provision has also been made for installing consumer meters in
Colombo Municipality and Towns South. The entire program requires the
installation of some 70,000 meters at rates of installation varying from
12,000 to 17,000 meters per year. The Government is obtaining assistance
from the United Kingdom, separately from the project, to establish and
staff meter testing and repair facilities.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Replacement Parts and Appliances
9.        Spare parts for the repair of existing equipment, or actual re-
placement itetns, have been included in the project All of these parts and
appliances are of foreign origin and most are associated with pumping,
treatment or bulk measurement of water.
Technical Assistance
10.       Technical asistance has been requested by WDB primarily to update
the Master Plan report and prepare final engineering designs for sewerage
and drainage facilities for Colombo, Towns South, Negombo and Galle. It is
estimated that consultants will be required for approximately 150 man-months
at US$6,000 to US$8,000 per month for this task. A further techncial assist-
ance item is included in the project for a water tariff study; the estimated
duration of this work is 12 man-months at US$5,000 to US$6,000 per man month.
Training
11.       A training program includes training of some of WDB's finan-
cial and accounting personnel and training WDB engineers in water treatment
plant management and distribution system waste prevention. Although the
Government is in agreement with the scope of the program, final details of
these items of training, their location and means of implementation, selec-
tion of personnel require further discussion with WDB officials.
12.       A brief description of each component of the project is given in
Appendix 1 of this annex and locations of major project items are shown in
Map IBRD 12531.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Project Description
Component/Work Item                 Location             Size/Capacity-           Function/Area Served
1.     AMBATALE PUMPS
Purchase and installation      Ambatale existing       3 - 3.5 Imgd          Pump treated water to Colombo
of 9 pumping units             pumping stations        3 - 8.0 Imgd          and Towns North via Eli House,
3 - 6.8 Imgd          Maligakande and (proposed)
Church Hill reservoirs.
2.     AMBATALE TRANSMISSION
(a)    Construction of short link    Ambatale to exist-    20, 30, and 32-          Transmission of treated water
mains                          ing transmission        inch diameter,        from Ambatale pumps to Maliga-
mains                  total length          kande and Elie House reservoirs,
3,000 ft.             Colombo.
(b)    Rehabilitation of trans-       Ambatale to Colombo   2 mains each 20-        Optimize transmission system
mission mains                                          inch diameter,        capacity; supply water to
total length          Colombo.
68,000 ft.
3.     TOWNS NORTH
(a)    Construction of a trans-       Ambatale to Towns       28 and 24-inch        Convey water from Ambatale to
mission and trunk mains        North via (pro-         diameter,             Towns North.  (Includes excess
posed) Church Hill    length 13,000 ft.    transmission capacity).
reservoir
(b)    Construction of a dis-         Church Hill             4 Imgd                Distribution storage for Towns
tribution reservoir                                                          North.
(c)    Construction of distri-        Towns North             32-inch, length       Distribution of piped water
bution mains including                                 1,400 ft.; 24-        to consumers in Towns North.
meters                                                 inch, length
24,000 ft.; 3-inch
to 20-inch total
length 68 miles.
4.     TOWNS SOUTH
(a)    Rehabilitation of trans-       Moratuwa, Dehiwala    18 and 20-inch          Improvement of water transmission
missions mains                 and Kotte               diameter, total       mains to Towns South.
length 26,000 ft.
(b)    Construction of distribu-      Dehiwala south          3 to 10-inch,         Extension of water supply to
tion mains                     zone                    total length          Attidya area.
24,000 ft.
(c)    Extension of Moratuwa          Moratuwa                From existing         Provide storage required to
distribution reservoir                                 0.9 Img to 1.9 Img   improve the supply.
(d)    Construction of a dis-         Kotte (Jubilee          1 Img                 Provide improved pressures in
tribution reservoir and        Reservoir)                                    Kotte south zone.
booster
(e)    Metering Program               Towns South             Installation of       Preferred method of charging
approximately         for water
30,000 meters
over a 5-year
period
5.     COLOMBO MUNICIPALITY
(a)    Construction of dis-            Elie House reser-      36-inch diameter      Improve supply to northern part
tribution mains                voir Walls Lane         reservoir outlet      of Colombo Municipality.
and 28-inch dia-
meter main, length
1,250 ft.
(b)    Construction of dis-           Bloemendhal/            18-inch diameter      Improve supply to north -
tribution mains                Stace Roads            main,length            eastern part of Colombo Muni-
2,000 ft.             cipality.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 2
Component/Work Item                  Location            Size/CapacitY1/           Function/Area Served
5.     COLOMBO MUNICIPALITY (continued)
(c)    Construction of dis-            Stace/Ingram           10-inch diameter       Improve supply to north -
tribution mains                Roads                   main, length          eastern part of Colombo Muni-
1,300 ft.             cipality.
(d)    Construction of dis-           Timbirigasyaya          18-inch diameter       Improve supply to central/south
tribution mains                Road                    main, length          part of Colombo Municipality.
2,500 ft.
(e)    Rehabilitation of dis-         Throughout              Miscellaneous          Improve the capacity of existing
tribution mains                Colombo                 mains from 10-        mains and thus improve distri-
Municipality           inch to 30-inch,       bution system pressures.
40,700 ft.
(f)    Water Tower and Booster        Kirillapone             An 0.2 Img water       Improve distribution pressures   -
Station                                                tower and an 0.8      in the Kirillapone district of
Imgd booster          Colombo Municipality.
station
(g)    Distribution reservoirs,        Colombo,               Extension to           Provide storage for larger area
extension and renovation       Maligakande             increase capa-        to be served by this reservoir.
Reservoir              city from 8 Img
to 11 Img.
(h)    Metering Program               Colombo                 Installation          Preferred method of charging
Municipality           of approximately       for water
34,000 meters
over a 5-year
period.
6.     KALUTARA
A new water supply              Intake at Kalu         First stage            To provide piped water to Kalutara
system including a             Ganga; treatment        (1980) capacity       and adjacent communities.
river intake, treatment        at Clyde; distri-       5.3 Imgd. (Second
plant, pumping stations        bution at Kalutara    stage  1990,
transmission and distri-       and adjacent com-       increase capacity
bution facilities inclu-       munities                to 7.0 Imgd)
ding meters
7.     AMBATAN(.lfA
A new water supply system       Intake and treat-      Capacity 1.5 Imgd.   To provide piped water to
including a river intake,      ment plant at Gin       (Second stage 1993,    Ambalangoda.
treatment plant, pumping       Ganga, distribution   increase capacity
stations, transmission         at Ambalangoda          to 2.0 Imgd).
and distribution faci-         and environs
lities including meters
8.     SPARE PARTS & EQUIPMENT
Spare parts and minor          Existing works in       -                     Primarily for operation and
equipment of foreign           project area                                  maintenance purposes.
origin
9.     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING
(a)    Engineering consulting         Primarily in Sri        Design of sewerage   Colombo, Towns South, Negombo
services                       Lanka                   and drainage works   and Galle
for WDB
(b)    Financial consulting           In Sri Lanka            Water and sewerage   Establishment of equitable
services                                               tariff study for      tariff structures in the
WDB                   project area.
(c)    Training                       In Sri Lanka            WDB financial and    Improvement of WDB's accounting
and overseas           engineering staff    and financial management;
development of expertise in
waste control and plant opera-
tion.
1/ Pipeline lengths are approximate, dependitig on routes finally selected.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 2
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Local Authorities In the Project Area
1/
Geographical Area              Name of Local Authority           Type of Local Authority
Colombo                          Colombo                                      MC
Towns South of Colombo           Dehiwala-Mt. Lavinia                         MC
Kolonnawa                                    UC
Kotte                                        UC
Moratuwa                                     UC
Panadura                                     UC
Towns North of Colombo           Peliyagoda                                   UC
Wattala-Mabole                               UC
Mahara (in part)                             UC
Kelaniya                                     TC
Dalugama                                     TC
Hendala                                      TC
Regiona of Kalutara              Kalutara                                     UC
Beruwala                                     UC
Wadduwa                                      TC
Alutgama                                     TC
Dharga Town                                  TC
Bentota                                      TC
Waddu Waskadu                                TC
Region of Ambalangoda            Ambalangoda                                   UC
Balapitiya                                   TC >
1/   MC, UC and TC are acronyms for municipal, urban and town councils, respectively.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Sewerage - Background and Future Development
1.        The Colombo Municipality is the only area in Sri Lanka served by
an urban sewage collection system, most of which was installed some 60 years
ago. Although there have been extensions and renewals in more recent years
they are limited in extent, and the major part of the system therefore remains
old and of inadequate capacity.
2.        The Municipality is divided into two drainage areas; flows from
the northern area discharge to the Kelani Ganga after minimal treatment for
removal of a small proportion of the solids; flows from the southern area
are discharged to the sea by means of a short outfall. The system is oper-
ated and maintained by the Colombo Municipal Council, which reports that
some trunk and subsidiary sewers are overloaded, pumping station capacities
are generally inadequate and some sewers continuously overflow to surface
water drains. Only parts of Colombo are served by the collection system;
some areas continue to rely on other methods including bucket latrines.
3.        In 1972 WHO/UNDP consultants, Howard Humphreys and Sons completed
a feasibility study, report and preliminary engineering designs for sewerage
facilities for Greater Colombo. The consultants recommended that discharge
of sewage to the sea without treatment should continue but that a new sea
outfall should be provided. Recommendations also included major improvements
of the collection and pumping systems. Although these works have not been
implemented, primarily because of a lack of foreign exchange, the Government
is concerned over the inadequacies of the existing system and has requested
that studies be implemented to update the previous report recommendations
and designs in the light of developments which have taken place since 1972.
Such studies, and similar work for other urban areas described below, have
therefore been included under the technical assistance item of this project.
4.        Urban areas adjacent to Colombo which have no sewerage facilites,
and yet have piped water supplies and relatively high population densities,
include Kolonnawa, Kotte and Dehiwala-Mt. Lavinia. In these areas it is
estimated that at least 100,000 pople should immediately be served under
the first stage of a sewage collection system and that the system could be
extended in subsequent stages to serve a major part of the area presently
receiving piped water. Disposal of sewage from this area would be by the
new southern outfall which is proposed for Colombo; treatment would not
be required in the foreseeable future.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        A piped water system for Negombo Municipality was constructed in
1963, however the town does not have a sewerage system. This township and
that of Galle, in which a new piped water supply system was constructed in
1975, would receive high priority in a proposed program of sewerage services.
6.        Drainage of surface water from specific urban areas in which
flooding is severe, is also proposed for inclusion in the studies to be
undertaken in this project. Frequent flooding is reported to occur in
Colombo, in the areas of Torrington (1,250 acres) and Unity Place (500
acres). Surface water drainage improvements are also required in parts
of Negombo and Galle.
7.        Responsibility for the selection, appointment and supervision
of consulting engineers for this work would rest with WDB, in its role as
the principal national agency for water and sewerage planning and develop-
ment. At present WDB has only two engineers with experience in sewerage
aspects of sanitary engineering, both of whom are attending foreign training
courses. WDB will therefore rely heavily on the advice and assistance of
consulting engineers for study and design functions in this field, and may
subsequently require consulting engineers to assist with construction super-
vision.



ANNEX 5
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Projected Water Demand, Production and Population Growth
1.        Projections of population and water demand for Colombo and
adjacent towns are shown in Charts 1 and 2. Similar data for Kalutara and
Ambalangoda are shown in Chart 3.
2.        The basis for population statistics is the 1971 census, updated
by the Government Department of Census and Statistics. All water consump-
tion data should be regarded as somewhat conjectural since most bulk meters
are unserviceable and individual consumers' meters are used only for commer-
cial and industrial establishments.
3.        In Colombo and Towns South a program to meter all connections will
begin in 1977 and will be completed in 1985. As metering progresses, the per
capita consumption will decline. It has been assumed that the percentage of
unaccounted-for water in existing areas of supply will decline as metering
becomes more widely used and as older distribution systems are improved.
Per capita consumption for people supplied through standpipes is estimated
at 7.0 to 10.0 Igcd depending on the locality of the supply; consumption
through metered private connections is estimated at 33 Igcd initially,
gradually rising to 40 in outlying areas and 40 gradually rising to 48 in
the well established urban areas. It has been estimated that water consump-
tion through unmetered private connections varies from 50 to 56 Igcd. These
criteria are based on the Master Plan studies, with minor variations to reflect
WDB's more recent observations.



ANNEX 5
Chart 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
PROJECTED POPULATIONS IN COLOMBO, TOWNS SOUTH AND TOWNS NORTH
3                                                   1       _
Colombo, Towns South and Twns North
2                                                                                  M.
0.9                    =    Extension of area served                                    Towns South
to include: Kehelwatta                                 _       _   _   _ , 
c   0.8 OKotikawatta, Kotte-Galkissa                                 _,M _o _,wn ~ 
Z                               Maharagama                 \                                               _
6 ,  _           _   _                                                                    Colombo
Z                                                                                           Towns North
0.51                 ----MM                                                         _M ___-
_______' _                                            _______   S____________
20  0.4                         Includes: Kotte      -
Kolonnawa, Dehiwala                     Extension of area
Mount Lavinia                           served to include
Moratuwa, Panadura                      Ja-ela, Kandana,
0.3                                                                Ragama, Kanuwana
1978
|-   First stage serves:
Daiugama, Kelaniya
Wattala-Mabole
|     Peliyagoda, Hendala
0.1                                                                                     .
1976            1978            1980             1982            1984             1986             1988            1990
World Bank - 16644



ANNEX 5
APPRAISAL OF                                                Chart 2 of 3
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
PROJECTED WATER DEMAND AND PRODUCTION
IN COLOMBO, TOWNS SOUTH AND TOWNS NORTH
100                74.5 Mgd                                                 5
90                                -Total Maximum DayT                                      A        Day
Water Demand                                           Dmn
70 , ~~~~~~~ := _ \ ~~~~~~Total Avrg Dmayn
60
54.5 Mgd
Total Capacity of Existing
50      ~      ~and Proposed Plants
40\._
Colombo
Average Day Water Demand!
~3                                                                                                       a
Towns Soth                          P
Averagen Day Souter Demand           *-Extension of area served to
Average Day Water Demand           /i     include: Kehelwatte, Kotikawatte,
20                        -  -               ---                      Kotte - Galkissa, Maharagama
z      
0
Includes: Kotte
Kolonnawa, Dehiwala-
0                Mount Lavinia,
Moratuwa, Panadura
a
z
Towns North                                                - _    _   -
Orr  10                                                    Average - Day Water Demand-    ,            ,_
B~~~~-.                                                         _     __               _ ___
8
Extension of area served to include:
7                                       /    /             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ja-ela 
Kandana
_                     Ragama
I                       Kanuwana
~00
4 
I|- First stage serves:
Daiugama
3                                    g       Kelaniya
Wattala - Mabole
Pel iyagoda
I      Hendala
1976    1977     1978    1979    1980    1981        1982    1983      1984      1985    1986      1987    1988    1989    1990
World Bank - 16646



ANNEX 5
Chart 3 of 3
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
PROJECTED WATER DEMAND AND PRODUCTION
IN KALUTARA AND AMBALANGODA
KALUTARA
800                                                                        -'
700  ~ ~     ~     ~      __________7 0 Mgd7
870 Co                                       _ _ _ _ lE 
Capacity of Proposed Plant
600  -(right scale)\                                                            6
500                                                              -ip _.-        5
Z Maximum Day Water Demand
Z<_  (right scale)                                                                      > 
400    _                               4.                                       2   -
.00                                                 ~~~~~~~~m
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
300  .    _______Average Day Water Demand                                    3   >
Z                                              (right scale)                            z
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a._              _                1.5
.AMBALANGODA
200    -               1                                          .             20
Capacity of P oposed Plant
en                 1\ l~~~aximum Da y Water Demand   __~ 
Z               (right scale) |~~~~~lef scle) ~ *       
D  1500                l         |-              - - -|                   |     10 o n
I-  90                    |._  im5-                         -------          |_og
1280                                _2-. 4  0 Mg-                               8 2.
Z           _   -         |         l a         Average Damy Water Demand DmD
0 70 F | | (right scale)   |  |                      0.7 :
D   60   S   ~~~ |  |   -  |         l         l          1~-   0.6  c<
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
40-c                       -       -         w-   0-4
30  .    !  l    }     l    !    1    1sl    ..   1   X   I   1  l  0,.
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
World Bank - 16647



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Detailed Cost Estimates
% of
Total
Project
Item                        Local      Foreign     Total           Local       Foreign      Total       Coat
- - - - Rs. Thousands - - - -          - - - -US$ Thousands - - - -
A.   CIVIL WORKS
Ambatale Pumps
Purchase and Installation of Pumps
and Power Supply Equipment                729           84         813         100.1          11.5       111.6        0.3
Ambatale Transmission Systems
Short Link Mains                            245           -          245          33.7             -        33.7
Rehabilitation of Existing Mains          4,435        3,564       7,999         609.2         489.5     1,098.7
4,680       3,564       8,244          642.9        489.5     1,132.4         2.7
Towns North
Purchase and Installation of Pumps          100            -         100          13.7             -        13.7
Transmission and Trunk Mains              8,106        1,197       9,303       1,113.5         164.4     1,277.9
Distribution System                      14,789        2,184      16,973       2,031.5         300.0     2,331.5
22,995       3,381      26,376        3,158.7        464.4     3,623.1         8.5
Towns South
Transmission Rehabilitation                 405        1,105       1,510           55.6        151.8       207.4
Distribution Rehabilitation                 357          962       1,319          49.0         132.2       181.2
Reservoirs and Connected Pipe Work        2,170          454       2,624         298.1          62.4       360.5
Distribution System                         637           95         732          87.5          13.0       100.5
Metering Program                           3,696         422       4,118          507.7         57.9       565.6
7,265       3,038      10,303         997.9         417.3     1,415.2         3.3
Colombo Municipality Distribution
System
Mains Construction                           440          67         507           60.4          9.2         69.6
Mains Rehabilitation                         654       1,770       2,424           89.8        243.2       333.0
Reservoir and Booster Station             3,356          702       4,058         461.0          p6.4       557.4
Metering Program                          4,543          519       5,062         624.0          71.3       695.3
8,993       3,058      12,051       1,235.2         420.1     1,655.3         3.9
Kalutara
River Intake                                928           86       1,014         127.5          11.8       139.3
Treatment Plant and Pumping               4,648          972       5,620          638.5        133.5       772.0
Transmission and Reservoirs              10,218        1,508      11,726        1,403.6        207.2     1,610.8
Distribution System                       6,162          909       7,071          846.4        124.9       971.3
21,956       3,475      25,431        3,016.0.       477.4     3,493.4          8.2
Ambalangoda
River Intake                                550           51         601           75.6          7.0        82.6
Transmission and Reservoirs               3,078          454       3,532         422.8          62.4       485.2
Distribution                              1,501          222       1,723         206.2          30.5       236.7
5,129         727       5,856          704.6         99.9        804.5         1.9
Total Civil Works                   71,747      17,327       89,074       9,855.4       2,380.1    12,235.5         28.8



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
Detailed Cost Estimates
z of
Total
Project
Item                           Local       Foreign       Total          Local        Foreizn       Totl        Cot
- - -- Rs Thousands - - - -             - - - - US$ Thousands - - - -
B.   EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS SUPPLY
Ambatale Pumps
Purchase and Installation of Pumps
and Power Supply Equipment                    -        5,392        5,392              -         740.7        740.7         1.7
Asbatale Transmission System
Short Link Mains                                 -       1,172        1,172              -         161.0        161.0
Rehabilitation of Existing Mains                  -        970          970              -         133.2        133.2
2,142       2,142               -        294.2        294.2          0.7
Towns North
Purchase and Installation of Pumps                -      2,428        2,428              -         333.5        333.5
Transmission and Trunk Mains                      -      6,728        6,728              -         924.1        924.1
Distribution System                          4,100       6,875       10,975          563.2         944.4      1,507.6
4,100     16,031       20,131          563.2       2,202.0      2,765.2          6.5
Towns South
Transmission Rehabilitation                       -        251          251              -          34.5         34.5
Distribution Rehabilitation                       -        234          234              -          32.2         32.2
Reservoirs and Connected Pipe Work                -      1,592        1,592              -         218.7        218.7
Distribution System                              50        502          552            6.9          69.0         75.9
Metering Program                                  -      1,524        1,524              -         209.3        209.3
50      4,103        4,153            6.9         563.7        570.6         1. 3
Colombo Municipality Distribution
System
Mains Construction                                -         905         905               -        124,4        124.4
Mains Rehabilitation                              -        419          419              -          57.5         57.5
Reservoir and Booster Station                     -         340         340               -         46.7         46.7
Metering Program                                  -      1,757        1,757               -        241.3        241.3
3,421       3,421               -        469.9        469.9          1.1
Kalutara
River Intake                                      -      1,318        1,318               -        181.0        181.0
Treatment Plant and Pumping                       -      4,241        4,241               -        582.5        582.5
Transmission and Reservoirs                       -      6,743        6,743              -         926.2        926.2
Distribution                                    400      4,720        5,120           55.0         648.3        703.3
400     17,022       17,422           55.0       2,338.0      2,393.0         5.6
Ambalandoga
River Intake                                      -      1,966        1,966               -        270.0        270.0
Transmission and Reservoirs                       -      2,561        2,561               -        351.8        351.8
Distribution                                    200      1,142        1,342           27.5         156.8        184.3
200      5,669        5,869           27.5         778.6        806.1          1.9
Spare Parts and Appliances                   1.744       3.713        5,457          239.6         510.0        749.6          1.8
Total Equipment and Materials           6,494      57,493       63,987          892.2       7,897.1      8,789.3         20.6
Supply



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
Detailed Cost Estimates
% of
Total
Project
Item                           Local      Foreign       Total          Local        Foreign        Total       Cost
- - - - Rs Thousands - - - -            - - - - US$ Thousands - - - -
C.   OTHER
Technical Assistance & Training               3,562      10,769       14,331          489.3       1,479.3       1,968.6        4.6
Engineering Services                          6,887           _        6,887          946.0              -        946.0        2.2
Land Acquisition                                500           -          500           68.7              -         68.7        0.2
Total Other                              10,949      10,769       21,718        1,504.0       1,479.3      2,983.3         7.0
SUMMARY
Total Civil Works                            71,747      17,327       89,074        9,855.4       2,380.1    12,235.5         28.8
Total Equipment & Materials Supply            6,494      57,493       63,987          892.2        7,897.1      8,789.3       20.6
Total Other                                  10,949      10,769       21,718        1,504.0       1,479.3       2,983.3        7.0
Sub-Total                              89,190      85,589      174,779        12,251.6      11,756.5    24,008.1         56.4
Physical Contingencie/l/                     14,571       8,058       22,629        2,001.5       1,106.9       3,108.4        7.3
Price Contingencies2/                        15,740       7,916       23,656        2,162.1       1,087.4       3,249.5        7.7
FEECs                                        66,016           -       66,016        9,068.1              -      9,068.1       21.3
Customs Duty                                 22,523           -       22,523        3,093.8              -      3,093.8        7.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     208,040    101,563       309,603       28,577.1      13,950.8    42,527.9        100.0
1/ Physical contingencies, 7.5 to 20% of base cost, depending on nature of work or item and degree
of completeness of engineering design.
2/ Price contingencies for materials and equipment, 7 to 8% per annum; for civil works, 8 to 10% per annum.



APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPIY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
PHOJECT COMPONEN jS             1976               1977                      1978                     1979                      1980                      1981
Ambatale Pumps                     ON          IN lt i l5B_I                                                                                      .
Ambdtaile Transmnissioni     te _lium _isi,s sss
l-owns Notth Pumps            *mil I_ss I
Towns North Transmissioni       *                 Bails mIm
Towns North Distribution                                             lot Iii m1  -
Towris South Distribution ii                                    _    -   - 1  ii   vital.
Towns South Transmission       m _     -**        smile  seil ___
Colomho MliUnicipality                                                                     .                       _ 1   m
Distribution
Kalutara Headworks            *                         *   a  ass 1mm s _ 
Kalutara Transmission and t|                                         _
Distributioni
Ambdlangoda Headworks          m       - _1113 slin 
Ambalangoda Tra-nsmissioln
and Distributior*                                I
ACTiVITIES.
m  ml- m m   DESIGN               II,1,,,,1* f1,1 TENDER PROCEDURES
_CONSTRUCT(IsN                    t - >_j - >gCONTINUATION OF METERING
World Bank - 16645



ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
WDB Procurement Procedures
A. Procurement of Goods
1.        Three different procurement procedures are used by WDB depending
on whether the goods required are of foreign origin, or are to be purchased
from a Government or non-Government supplier.
2.        When goods of foreign origin are to be purchased WDB is required
to follow a formal tender procedure in which tenders are advertised in the
local press and tender notices are sent to embassy and high commission
offices. Formal tender documents are prepared by WDB engineers, or other
suitably qualified technical personnel. Tender evaluations by a WDB sup-
plies officer, with assistance from technical specialists, are passed to a
tenders board.
3.        When the tender value exceeds Rs 100,000 the tenders board com-
prises the WDB chairman, four board members and the general manager. When
the tender value is less than Rs 100,000 the tenders board comprises WDB's
deputy general manager, an assistant general manager, the assistant general
manager finance, and the supplies officer.
4.        The tenders board is required to select the lowest valid tender.
The tenders board recommendations are final and orders may be placed after
certification by the assistant general manager finance that funds are
available.
5.        The normal procedure for purchasing locally manufactured goods
from non-government suppliers is to obtain at least six quotations, based
on a brief specification. Quotations then follow the procedures for tenders,
described above.
6.        In purchasing goods from another Government agency, WDB are not
required to obtain tenders or quotations but may merely place an order.
There is no limit to the value of such an order, provided the assistant
general manager finance certifies the availability of funds.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
B. Civil Engineering Contracts
7.        Tender documents for civil engineering contracts to be awarded
locally are prepared by the assistant general manager responsible for the
particular project. Tenders are advertised in the local press, and are
evaluated by a committee of two engineers and the asssitant general manager
finance. Tenders and recommendations are then passed to the tenders board,
and a procedure similar to that for the purchase of goods of foreign origin
and of value less than Rs 100,000 is followed.



ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA  Fiscal Year             Disbursements             Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter               During Quarter                 at End of Quarter
(US$ '0oo)                      (US$ '000)
1977/78
September 30, 1977                      0                                0
December 31, 1977                      50                               50
March 31, 1978                      1,300                            1,350
June 30, 1978                       2,000                            3,350
1978/79
September 30, 1978                 2,500                            5,850
December 31, 1978                   3,000                           8,850
March 31, 1979                      1,000                            9,850
June 30, 1979                       1,200                          11,050
1979/80
September 30, 1979                 1,000                           12,050
December 31, 1979                   1,000                          13,050
March 31, 1980                        100                          13,150
June 30, 1980                         100                          13,250
1980/81
September 30, 1980                    200                          13,450
December 31, 1980                     200                          13,650
March 31, 1981                        100                          13,750
June 30, 1981                         100                          13,850
1981/82
September 30, 1981                      0                          13,850
December 31, 1981                       0                          13,850
March 31, 1982                        150                          14,000



APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD
ORGANIZATION CRT
| 1,1E MINISTER
OF
LOCAL GOVERNMENT
I     
THE NATIONAL
WATER SUPPLY &
DRAINAGE BOARD
CHiAIRMAN
OF
THE BOARD
GENERAL MANAGER
SECRETARY                                           INTERNAL AUDITOR
|DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER|
I  CH EF                                                                                              AS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3RSIDEANT  2ARSISTENT  A RSIDEANT
GEASITNERA        ACDMIUNTSATV                             DRAINAGEA                                                                                                 GENRAUNICERA
ACCCO JNTANTS                    CLER                         SERANGE&               PRICT               PRGGRESS                                  MANAGERS             MANAGERS             MANAGERS
CH                         N    I   EE                                                  3 RESIDENT           2 ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESIDENT3 RESIDENT   DPT
RSIDN                                       RES IENT
ENGINEERING          ENGCEING             ENGINEERING          4H  DN
WO,Id B.nI- 16721



SRI LANKA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD (TOTAL OPERATIONS)
INCCME STATEMNTS 1975-1983
(Rs Thousands)
- - - - - - - -    -          Forecast - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year Ending December 31:                               1975             1976         1977        1978       1979       1980        1981       1982       1983
(Provisional)     (Estim-ated)
Water sold (m.g.)                                      9,575           12,912       18,098      30,831     33,220     36,531      39,842     42,944     44,676
Average water charge Rs/1l,OOO Ig                        .59              .55           .97       1.13       1.31       1.57       1.82        1.95       1.98
Operating Revenue
Water sales                                          5,640            7,119       17,621      34,989     43,578     57,365      72,523     83,948     88,560
Other fees                                              60              175          200        215         225        240         255        260        265
Government payment for operations                        -            1,478        2,231           -          -          -           -          -           -
Water supply to religious organizations                  -            1,746        2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000
Total Operating Revenues                    5,700            10,518       22,052     37,204      45,803     59,605     74,778      86,208     90,825
Operating Expense
Personnel                                            3,551            4,336        4,973       6,407      7,202      8,276       9,286     10,411      11,595
Power and fuel                                       1,866            2,350        3,035       3,804      5o88       6,695       7,695      8,451       9,275
Chemicals                                            1,941            2,042        6,729      12,984     14,237     16,833      18,715     20,490      22,536
Maintenance                                            161              562           589        988      1,360       1,944      2,744      3,151       3,319
Administration                                       1,470            1,743        1,243       1,601      1,801       2,069      2,322      2,603       2,899
Bad Debts                                                -                -          402         720        890      1,177       1,393      1,491       1,598
Depreciati:,n                                        1,868            1J961        2,943       4,911      6,801       9,722     13,720     15,756      16,594
Total Operating Expense                    10,857            12J994       19,914      31,415     37,379     46,716      55,875     62,353     67,816
Net Operating Income (Loss)                 (5,157)          (2,476)       2,138       5,789      8,424     12,889      18,903     23,855      23,009
Other Income                                            _                  30           15          18         21          24         27      1,358       2,627
Net Income before Interest                  (5,157)          (2,446)        2,153      5,807      8,445      12,913     18,930     25,213      25,636
Interest                                                 216               60           -          216        172         129         89       6,883     14,472
Net Income (Loss)                           (5373)           (2506)           l3       5591       8,273      12,784     18,841      18,330         64
Average net fixed assets in service                   72,868           75,604       112,420    187,207    256,944    365,545    513,722    580,448    597,773
Rate of return                                                                         1.9%       3.1%       3.3%        3.5%       3.7%        4.1%       3.8%
Operating ratio                                                                         90%        84%        82%         78%        75%         72%        75%



SRI LANKA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD (TOTAL OPERATIONS)
BALANCE SHEETS 1975-1983
(Rs Thousands)
------------------------Forecast--------------------------
As of December 31:                            1975         1976        1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
(Provisional) (Estimated)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Buildings, plant and equipment            74,736       82,170      153,270  239,599  304,456  473,323  624,252  636,252  691,252
Less:  Accumulated depreciation             1,868       3,829        6.772   11.683   18.484   28.206   41.926   57.682   74,276
Net fixed assets in  service          72,868       78,341     146,498  227,916  285,972  445,117  582,326  578,570  616,976
Construction in progress                  26,482       47,286       58,554  212,923  268,118  172,607   79,979  120,679  207,979
Total net fixed assets                99,350      125,627     205,052  440,839  554,090  617,724  662,305  699,249  824,955
Current Assets
Cash                                        1,001       1,062        1,414    2,208    2,550    3,097    3,521    3,873    4,252
Inventories                               14,299       17,380       23,491   29,826   28,932   24,795   21,455   21,686   22,000
Accounts Receivable                        21,058       22,176      15.36L   18,187   19.328   21,649   24,460   27,140   29.318
Total current assets                  36,358       40,618       40,266   50,221   50,810   49,541   49,436   52,699   55,570
Other Assets                                 2,168         2,385       8,136   22,751   36,991   43,442   43,459   42,541   40,694
TOTAL ASSETS                         137,876      168,630      253,454  513,811  641,891  710,707  755,200  794,489  921,219
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
EquLty
National Government                      139,296      175,232      213,761  311,909  381,223  428,434  450,241  475,675  574,912
Accumulated surplus                        (5,373)      (7,879)      (5,726)    (135)   8,138   20,922   39,763   58,093   69,257
Assets transferred to Board              __20,000   68,577   68,577   68,577   68,577   68,577   68,577
Total equity                         133,923      167,353      228,035  380,351  457,938  517,933  558,581  602,345  712,746
Long-Term Debt
National Government                          -            -         17,725   58,333   78,918   85,947   89,077   87,295   83,732
Treasury Loan                               1,200         --                    -         -         -         -         -         -
Colombo Municipality                                      -            -       3,923    2,830    1,747         764       264     -
Proposed IDA credit                          -            -           5,742   68,156   98,685  100,806  101,920   99,238   93,874
Vuture borrovings                            -            -            -        -         -         -         -         -       25,000
Total long-term debt                    1,200        -          23,467  130,412  180,433  188,500  191,761  186,797  202,606
Current Liabilities                           2,753        1,277        1,952    3,048    3,520    4,274    4,858    5,347    5,867
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         137,876      168,630      253,454  513,811  641,891  710,707  755,200  794,489  921,219
=ebt/Equlty rati            9/91-                                         26/74    28/72    27/73    26/7  2/ 27
Debt/Equity ratio                                                         9/91    26/74    28/72    27/73    26/74    24/76    22/78



ANNEX 13.
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD (TOTAL OPERATIONS)
CASWi FLOW PROJECTIONS 1977-1983
(Rs Thousands)
Year ending December 31:                     1977        1978        1979       1980        1981         1982        1983
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Net income before interest                2,153        5,807       8,445    12,913       18,930       25,213      25,636
Depreciation                              2,943        4.911       6,801      9,722     13,720        15,756      16,594
Total internal cash generation    5,096         10,718      15,246    22,635       32,650       40,969      42,230
Amortization payment from Local
Authorities                                                                                -             937       1,875
Borrowings
Government                              17,725       40,608      20,585       7,029      3,130          -           -
Proposed IDA credit                       5,742       62,414      30,529      2,121       1,114         -           -
Future borrowings                          -            -           -          -           -            -         25,000
Government investment (equity)             48,529       98,148      69,314    47,211       21,807       25,434      99,237
Government grant (UNICEF)                   8,000        8,000       8,000      5,000       4,000        4,000       4,000
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS             85,092      219,888    143,674    83,996        62,701       71,340    172,342
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Construction program - project             35,311      163,157      85,167    16,967        9,001         -           -
- outside project area              35,000       49,600      57,100    52,800       38,300       26,700      11,300
- on-going works                     5,693         -           -          -           -            -           -
- future works                         -           -           -        15,000      15,000       30,000    135,000
Debt Service
Intereas
Colombo Municipality                      -            216         172        129          89           69          51
Proposed IDA credit                       -           -           -          -            -          4,587       8,931
Government loan                           -           -           -         -             -          2,227       4,365
Future borrowings                         -           -           -          -            -           -          1,125
Total interest                      -            216         172        129          89        6,883      14,472
Amortization
Colombo Municipality                        -           -          1,093      1,083         983          500         264
Proposed IDA credit                                     -           -          -           -           2,682       5,364
Government loan                             -           -           -          -           -           1,782       3
Total amortization                              -          1,093      1,083         983        4,964       9,191
Total debt service                  -            216       1,265      1,212       1,072       11,847      23,663
Variation in working capital
Cash increase                                 352          794         342        547         424          352         379
Other than cash increase (decrease)         8,736        6,121        (200)   (2,530)    (1,096)         2,441       2,000
Net increase (decrease)             9,088        6,915         142    (1,983)        (672)       2,793       2,379
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS        85,092      219,888    143,674    83,996        62,701       71,340    172,342
Times annual debt service coverage
by internal cash generation                  -              50          12         19          30          3.5         1.8
Internal financing of total
requirements (Z)                                 6            5          11        27          52            57          25



SRI LANKA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD (PROJECT AREA)
INCOME STATEMENTS 1977-1983
(Rs Thousands)
-------------------        Forecast-------------------------
Year ending December 31:                           1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982     1983
Water sold (m.g.)                                12,008   23,721   24,100   25,131   25,562   28,214   29,496
Average water charges Rs/1000 Ig                     .881/    .96      1.28      1.66      2.07      2.21     2.20
Operating Revenue
Water sales                                   8,046   22,712   30,859   41,842   52,943   62,286   64,783
Other fees and income                         1 1222/      22        23        24        25        26       27
Total operating revenue                   9,168   22,734   30,882   41,866   52,968   62,312   64,810
Operating Expense
Personnel                                       958    1,854    2,103    2,566    2,891    3,249    3,574
Power and fuel                                1,150    1,624    2,488    3,504    3,838    4,208    4,629
Chemicals                                     5,404   11,389   12,371   14,635   16,110   17,616   19,378
Maintenance                                     199       448       755    1,290    1,721    1,746    1,746
Administration                                  240       464       526       642       723       812      894
Bad Debts                                       222       490       634       876    1,037    1,110    1,200
Depreciation                                    995    2,210    3,641    5,588    8,148    9,322    9,447
Total operating expense                   9,168   18,479   22,518   29,101   34,468   38,063   40,868
Net operating income                       -        4,255    8,364   12,765   18,500   24,249   23,942
Other income                                          10       12        14        16        18    1,348    2,616
Net income before interest                   10    4,267    8,378   12,781   18,518   25,597   26,558
Interest                                           -          216       172       129        89    6,883   14,472 , 
Zf-
Net income (loss)                            10    4,051    8,206   12,652   18,429   18,714   12,086
Average net fixed assets in service               38,078   85,090  139,407  212,655  308,185  346,414  342,029
Rate of return                                      -           5%        6%       6%        6%        7%        7%
Operating ratio                                     IQQX       81%       73%       70%      65%       61%       63%
l/With effect from 10/1/77
2/ Including deficit prior to rate increase met by Government.



ANNEX 15
Page 1
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS' FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.        With WDB having inherited from its predecessor organization, the
Department of Water Supply, a government department-type of cash accounting
system which did not provide commercial accounts, WDB has assigned values to
a number of its accounts in preparing its financial statements for 1975, the
first year of its operations. Until the Auditor General of Sri Lanka, who is
presently auditing these accounts, formally establishes their value, they
must be considered tentative.
Income Statements
2.        Revenues of WDB, as a bulk supplier, are based on the known volume
of water supplied to the retail authorities, taking into account the increased
volume to be handled as a result of WDB taking over two impounding reservoirs
and the doubling of water treated at Ambatale. It is assumed that as a bulk
supplier, the amount of water shown to be handled by WDB is the amount sold.
A relatively few metered commercial consumers supplied by WDB together with
Ambalangoda and Kalutara schemes, which begin to supply water only in 1981,
account for only about 5% of the total volume of water handled during the
period under review.
3.        Personnel costs are based on detailed estimates by WDB and reflect
increased staffing due to WDB taking over Colombo Municipality headworks, the
doubling of the amount of water to be treated at Ambatale, the commissioning
of the Ambalangoda and Kalutara schemes, and an assumed salary increase in
1977. Forecasts apportion costs between operations in the project area and
operations in other than the project area.
4.        Power and fuel costs are forecast taking into account the volume
of water produced, the commissioning and utilization of pumping facilities,
fuel cost per gallon and per kwh power costs. The cost of chemicals is based
on dosages as recommended by WDB's former consultants, using a base price
for lime, aluminum sulfate and chlorine of Rs 1,200. Rs 1,300; and Rs 3,400
per 2,000 pounds, respectively.
5.        Maintenance expense is assumed at 0.5% of the gross value of average
fixed assets in service each year; and administration costs are estimated at
25% of personnel expense.
6.        Bad debts are projected at 2% of billings.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
7.        Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis, using a com-
posite rate of 2.5%.
Balance Sheets
8.        It is assumed that ownership of the two impounding reservoirs
(Kalatuwawa and Labugama) would pass from Colombo Municipality to WDB
during 1978. The present book value of Kalatuwawa reservoir is the value
at which it is assumed that it would be taken into WDB's books. The
Labugama reservoir is assumed to have a book value of 10% of its original
cost in 1886. While there is no debt outstanding in respect of Labugama,
Kalatuwaa has a debt of Rs 3.9 million in 1978, which would be taken over
by WDB.
9.        Cash balances are projected on the basis of one month's cash oper-
ating expense.
10.       Inventories are estimated at six months' supply of chemicals and
spare parts, plus 40% of the construction program in the following year for
the non-project area. WDB will be doing the construction of non-project area
schemes, while largely sub-contracting the work of project area schemes.
11.       Accounts receivable are forecast on the basis of 86% of billings in
1977, reflecting current receivables and old arrears, reducing to 33% by 1981.
It is assumed that, in accordance with a Cabinet decision, old arrears in
the amount of Rs 10 million dating back to 1968 will be written off.
12.       Other assets include amounts receivable in respect of those assets
constructed by WDB and handed over to the local authorities. The debt asso-
ciated with these assets is being serviced in the first instance by WDB and
recovered from the local authorities. The amortization portion of the local
authorities' debt service for these assets is shown in the accounts of WDB
as a charge against the relevant asset account.
13.       The amount shown under equity for National Government as of Decem-
ber 31, 1975 is the balancing figure between the amount of total assets, net
of current liabilities, and the sum of long-term debt and accumulated deficit.
For the projections, the government's contribution under equity represents
the balancing item as shown in the cash flow statement.
14.       Long-term debt includes the proposed credit with an on-lending annual
interest rate of 9% and a term of 24 years, including a five-year grace period.
Government loans carry an interest rate of 5% and a term of 30 years, including
a five-year grace period.
15.       Accounts payable are projected on the basis of six weeks' cash
operating expense.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Price Escalation
16.       The main operating expenses (personnel costs, power and fuel and
chemicals) are assumed to be subject to inflation of 8% per year.
17.       Capital expenditure:  civil works contain an allowance for infla-
tion of 7% to 10% per year and materials and supplies of 7% to 8%.
18.       Fixed assets have not been revalued in view of the large and con-
stant addition of new assets at current prices and the technical obsolescence
of existing assets.



APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Performance Indicators - 1976-1983
National Water Supply and Drainage Board
The following indicators will serve to help monitor WDB's performance.  WDB will be asked to include
these indicators as part of its reporting requirements and to relate the achievements with the forecast:
Year 'ending December 31                               1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
Rate of return (X)                                      -           5         6         6         6         7        7
Operating ratio (%)                                     100        81        73        70        65       61        63
Operating Revenue per                                  0.88      0.96      1.28      1.66     2.07      2.21      2.20
1000 Ig (Rs)
Operating Expense per                                  0.76      0.78      0.93      1.16     1.35      1.35      1.39
1000 Ig (Rs)
Accounts Receivable as a
Percentage of Billings                                    86       52        44        38        34       32         33
(Total operations)
Colombo, Towns South and Towns North.
Population served (thousands) through:
(a)  metered connections                                 -         70       170       285       384      493       628
(b)  unmetered connections                              645       592       509       426       348      260       174
(c)  standpipes                                         427       430       447       652       656       661      666
Kalutara and Ambalangoda.
M
Population served (thousands) through:
(a)  metered connections                                  -        -         -          4        17        20        23
(b)  standpipes                                           -        -         -         35       144       145       145
1/ For Project Area unless otherwise indicated.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Economic Analysis
Economic Rate of Return
1.        In calculating the rates of return for the Colombo based portion
of the project, and for Ambalangoda and Kalutara, costs of works to be imple-
mented in future construction stages have been included. These works will
enable facilities constructed under the project to be utilized to their full
capacities. Benefits of these related works are inseparable from those of
the project. The rates of return exclude taxes and consumer contributions,
and are calculated at constant prices.
2.        Benefits are taken only as the incremental revenues derived from
paying consumers, using a proposed rate of Rs 3.00 per 1,000 gallons for the
water supplied from Ambatale and Rs 5.00 per 1,000 gallons for Kalutara and
Ambalangoda. No benefit is attributed to free supplies through standpipes.
Operating costs are calculated on the whole additional quantity supplied.
3.        Table 1 shows the amounts taken into account, the resultant rates
of return are:
Colombo
Towns South
and
Towns North    Amabalangoda    Kalutara
Estimated % of Total Project          64                8            28
Assumed Initial Tariff
Rs/1,OOO Ig                      3.00             5.00           5.00
US$/1,000 Ig                     0.34             0.57           0.57
Economic Rate of Return
(%), Assuming:
Estimates shown                  7.0              4.6            4.3
Revenues Overestimated
by 20%                          4.0              2.6            2.4
Project Costs Under-
estimated by 20%                3.2              1.9            1.7



ANNEX 17
Page 2
4.        Project costs used in computing these financial rates of return are
based on the official exchange rate. Difficulties in estimating a meaningful
shadow exchange rate for Sri Lanka -- because of the absence of economic data
and the presence of a complicated system of import restrictions, taxes and
duties -- were reported in connection with a recently appraised irrigation
project. 1/ In that project, a shadow exchange rate approximately equal to the
FEEC rate was used. Accordingly, economic rates of return for Colombo and
environs, Ambalangoda and Kalutara based on costs which include FEECs are 4.8,
2.9, and 2.7% respectively.
5.        Marginal costs of water for Colombo and environs, based on project
costs excluding and including FEECs are Rs 3.6 and Rs 4.3/1,000 Ig respec-
tively.
1/   Sri Lanka, Mahaweli Ganga (II) Irrigation and Rural Development
Project.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
TABLE 1
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT C0STS AND BENEFITS
Capital     Operating      Total
Costs        Costs        Costs       Revenues
- - -a- ---- Rs. Millions  - - - - -  -
COLMBO, TOWNS SOUTH AND TOWNS NORTH
Years
1            1977                          9.1                       9.1
2            1978                         54.7             -        54.7             -
3            1979                         36.7           3.7        40.4           7.6
4            1980                         10.3           5.3        15.6           9.5
5            1981                         13.9           5.4        19.3           9.8
6            1982                         24.o           6.9        30.9          13.6
7            1983                         34.4           9.3        43.7          15.9
8            1984                         24.4          10.0        34.4          17.4
9            1985                         13.0 1o0o                 23.0          17.9
10            1986                            -         11.1         11.1          20.0
11            1987                            -          11.7        11.7          20.8
12            1988                            -         13.5         13.5          24.6
13            1989                            -          14.7        14.7          26.8
14            1990                            -          16.1        16.1          29.6
15-40         1991 - 2016                     -          16.2        16.2          29.6
Rate of Return  = 7. 0,
AMBALANGODA
Years
1            1977                          o.6              -        o.6
2            1978                          9.6              -        9.6              -
3            1979                          1.9              -        1.9
4            1980                          0.9           0.94        1.14          o.48
5            1981                          0.7           0.24        o.94          0.53
6            1982                            -           0.25        0.25          0.57
7            1983                            -           0.25        0.25          o.63
8            1984                            -           0.26        0.26          0.66
9            1985                            -           0.27        0.27          0.71
10            1986                            -           0.31        0.31          0.79
11            1987                            -           0.31        0.31          0.84
12            1988                            -           0.32        0.32          0.92
13            1989                            -           0.33        0.33          1.05
14            1990                            -           0.37        0.37          1.o6
15            1991                            -           0.38        0.38          1.12
16            1992                          0.8           o.40        1.20          1.21
17            1993                          0.7           o.40        1.10          1.26
18            1994                            -           o.41        o.41          1.33
19            1995                            -           o.42        o.42          1.41
20            1996                            -           o.45        o.45          1.48
21            1997                            -           o.47        o.47          1.57
22            1998                            -           o.48        o.48          1.66
23            1999                            -           0.49        o.49          1.86
24-40         2000 - 2016                     -           0.51        0.51          1.97
Rate of Return = 4.6%
KALUTARA
Years
1             1977                          o.o4             -        o.o4             -
2             1978                         27.90             -       27.9g0            -
3             1979                         10.80             -       lo.3o             -
4             1980                          6.1o             -        6.1o             -
5             1981                          2.40          1.51        3.91          2.63
6             1982                             -          1.54        2.40          2.78
7             1983                             -          1.60        1.60          2.98
8             1984                             -          1.62        1.62          3.25
9             1985                             -          1.69        1.69          3.47
10             1986                             -          1.75        1.75          3.67
11             1987                             -          1.81        1.81          4.oo
12             1988                             -          1.86        1.86          4.26
13             1989                          4.20          1.89        6.og          4.50
14             1ggo                          4.1o          1.97        6. 07         4.91
15             1991                             -          2.12        2.12          5.17
16             1992                             -          2.16        2.16          5.39
17             1993                             -          2.22        2.22          5.70
18             1994                             -          2.26        2.26          5.91
19             1995                             -          2.30        2.30          6.17
20             1996                              -         2.36         2.36         6.46
21             1997                             -          2.43         2.43         6.80
22-40          1998 - 2016                       -         2.52        2.52          7.15
Rate of Return  -   4.3%



ANNEX 17
Page 4
Table 2: AVERAGE INCOME (Rs/month)
Spending Unit                                                                           2/
Spenone Groupl/       Reported 1973 Average Income       Estimated 1977 Average Income-
(Rs)            Sri Lanka         Urban Areas       Sri Lanka          Urban Areas
26-50                      42.2               47.5             74                 83
.51-100                    79.9               80.3           140                 141
101-200                    155.5              152.6            272                267
201-400                    282.4              291.8           494                 511
401-800                    526.8              540.0            922                945
800-1,000                  882.4              884.2         1,544               1,547
1,000-1,500                1,205.9               865.0        2,110               1,513
1,501 and more             2,265.0            2,144.6         3,964               3,753
Average                       310.8              397.3           544                695
SOUJRCE: Survey of Sri Lanka's Consumer Finances - 1973,
Central Bank of Ceylon, Part II, Statistical Tables,
pages 485/6.
1/ Based on income per month.
2/ Based on inflation factor of 1.75 for all income groups for period 1973 to 1977.



ANNEX 17
Page 5
Table 3: AVERAGE OCCUPANCY BY HOUSING UNIT
All               Urban
Island             Areas
Number of households                    1.03               1.09
Number of spending units                1.09               1.20
Number of income receivers              1.49               1.50
Number of people                        5.80               6.30
SOURCE: Survey of Sri Lanka's Consumer Finances - 1973,
Central Bank of Ceylon and Socio-Economic Survey
of Sri Lanka - 1969/70, Department of Census and
Statistics, page 94.



ANNFY 18
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SRI LANKA
Industry and Tourism
Industry
1.        Employment in the manufacturing industries in Sri Lanka expanded
from 292,000 employees in 1963 to 339,000 in 1971, at an annual rate of
1.9%. Some 48,000 (14% of the total) are employed in industry in the project
area (see Table 1), of which over two-thirds reside in Colombo, Dehiwela/
Mt. Lavinia and Moratuwa.
2.        Water requirements for industrial purposes in the project area
are estimated at about 700 million gallons a year 1/ which represents only
some 4% of the piped water presently consumed in the project area. Some
industries, particularly those located outside of Colombo or the towns
immediately south of it, are not served by piped water and rely on their
own installations. Some of the smaller industries take water from wells,
whereas larger consumers -- including a tire factory, oil refinery and steel
mill -- use river water. The cost of water pumped and treated by two such
enterprises, located near the Kelani Ganga, is Rs 2.0 to Rs 4.0 per 1,000 Ig.
Industries having their own water supply facilities are under heavy pressure
from neighboring, smaller consumers to sell part of their treated water even
when rates as high as Rs 10 per 1,000 Ig are charged.
3.        The introduction of piped water supply in hitherto unserved areas
will mean that some industries, presently relying on the uncertain, and
often deficient supply from wells, will shift to piped water. However, the
large industries which have installed their own intakes and treatment plants
1/   This is based on an estimate of industrial water consumption of
1,015 million gallons/year for the Colombo Metropolitan area (see
Master Plan for the Colombo Metropolitan Area, 1976. Department of
Town and Country Planning in cooperation with UNDP. Technical Memo-
randum 26, page 16.), and allocating part of this to the project
area on the basis of manufacturing employment figures for the project
area (48,000) and the metropolitan area as a whole (110,000), while
making allowance for the fact that two of the heaviest consumers of
water (a tire factory and an oil refinery) are located within the proj-
ect area. It should be noted that this does not include commercial water
consumption, which is considerably more than industrial consumption.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
will probably continue to use these. Future industrial growth in the project
area is likely to take place in the existing industrial estate in Ja-ela,
and in Kelaniya where the Government operated tire factory and oil refinery
are located. Extension of piped water to Ja-ela in the second phase (1982-83)
of the Towns North system is planned. Industries which might be set up in
Kelaniya are those which have links with either the rubber industry or with
by-products from the oil refinery.
4.        A considerable growth in industry has been forecast 1/ reflecting
an estimated increase in industrial employment, in the metropolitan area as
a whole, at an annual average rate of 2.7% between 1971 and 1986. In view
of the past record, this would require a considerable step-up in industrial
investment activity and should be considered as an upper limit.
Tourism
5.        Tourism has been developing quite rapidly in the past decade;
tourist arrivals increased at an annual rate of about 20% in the period 1967
to 1975; the most rapid increase has been in arrivals from Western Europe,
with Asia (Japan) also well above average.
6.        Government data shows that tourists spend about 60% of their time
in Colombo or its environs and/or in the coastal areas south of Colombo where
Kalutara/Bentota are popular tourist centers.
7.        The tourist industry presents a rapidly growing source of employ-
ment, with the total number of persons directly engaged in tourism expanding
from 9,799 in 1973 to 11,484 in 1974, at a rate of 17%. Tourism in Sri Lanka
is expected to continue to increase rapidly in the coming years. The 1976
hotel capacity amounted to 3,632 rooms but 1,663 additional rooms were either
planned or under construction.
8.        A considerable number of hotels in the project region are located
in areas which are presently not served by piped water. Some of these hotels
have their own wells; others buy their water from industries, paying as much
as Rs 10 per 1,000 gallons. These hotels will undoubtedly accept piped
water once it becomes available, since reliance cannot be placed on ground-
water sources for other than isolated domestic requirements.
1/ Master Plan for the Colombo Metropolitan Area, 1976. Department of
Town and Country Planning in cooperation with UNDP. Technical
Memorandum 26, page 16.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
Table 1: -MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT WITHIN THE PROJECT AREA"
EMPLOYED
(thousands)
I.   Colombo                                                      17.3
II.   Towns South of Colombo                                       20.4
Dehiwela/Mt. Lavinia           6.6
Kolonnawa                      1.3
Kotte                          3.2
Moratuwa                       8.3
Panadura                       1.0
III.   Towns North of Colombo                                        6.6
Peliyagoda                     1.1
Wattala/Mabole                 0.7
Kelaniya                       1.4
Dalugama                       2.2
Hendula                        1.2
IV.   Region of Kalutara                                            2.4
Kalutara                       0.8
Beruwela                       0.8
Wadduwa                        0.6
Alutgama                       0.1
Darga Town                     0.1
V.   Region of Ambalangoda                                         n.a.
VI.   Total                                                        46.7
1/ Listed by place of residence of the employees.






a  Go oTh, bl-dfi,, h.-  - th,, -p  d--  -
,',z= o    npl dormn . or ar p-,n,e  b, h      -- -           BAY OF BENGAL
Negomho ;t  \            t                                                                                           <            1    VW B
.~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~ On/5G  lF  -  STriocomox,to
t egnnrrbo'     c                                                                                             af/
Ja.eC  }                                                                                                       -\           Kuuegl aa  n oL/te
K-ody
Knnd.-o   I'                                                                                            COLOMBO                          Poitnuil
IN VIAN
PeincoodoWN         oDlIU9rnC              /4                                                         7400'-  7OCEAN            COl.
a 80'30'
0  0 ;  COL<olonnewct   \                     r                 tALATU~WAWA
Dehiwlo    /.,3.)i    M                                                                                     SRI   LANKA
LABUGAMA                     WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Expansion or
renation New under
uxstng nder      project
project
_ _  _ _   = . Keh_lwc_c-  ~-     Mains
=  D   ^   \    *   A  n      Headworks / treatment plants
=   Pc d  *   0      f      Pumping stations
=- X   --\/ J*  K      *5     Reservoirs
W.                                                                        Impove = L  =  =\   /    o  O  Water towers
W. koduC         /                                             Existing    under   Ne  under
protect    protect
Kol \o'---o                                                         '<4//'  F           l [Water supply areas
0  3   0  R 0                t    nd~~~~addo           
---------- Township boundaries
---U N[DP boundaries
-6'30'                                            {         >,Li
,__-_,_.,,+>   1                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-3 0'-
Beracoto     i      'x         /
--'Beuwolo Aluigomo
AlutDcmanbharacJwn
Bentoti , \,.
'\   1~~~~~~~~1
.   \.                                                                   _
.  ./
r                                          } 
B.lapitp 
0        n        0I       15       20        25O\
KILOMETERs                                                            ,                         )
0M 5             L  5g 
GALLE                      'J
6- 00'                                                                                                          -
80 00'                                                                                                8030o



