Document of
The World Bank
FILE         COPY              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2051-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TBE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 21, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
On May 24, 1976, the Sri Lanka Rupee was officially linked
to a basket of currencies with the initial parity rate based
on the Rupee/Pound rate at that date. Both the composition
of the basket and the weights assigned to the currencies were
revised on March 12, 1977. The current Rupee/US Dollar rate
below, in effect during the preparation of the report, has
been used throughout the report, except where stated to the
contrary.
US$1    = Rs 7.28
Rs 1    = US$0.137
Rs 1 M = US$137,363
Most non-foodgrain imports have to pay a surcharge through
the purchase of Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates
(FEECs), and most non-traditional exports receive a
premium over the official rate through the sale of FEECs.
The premium is now fixed at 65% of the Rupee parity rate,
resulting in the following current exchange rates including
FEECs:
US$1    = Rs 12.01
Rs 1    = US$0.083
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA   -   Canadian International Development Agency
DCA    -   Development Credit Agreement
FEEC   -   Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP    -   Gross National Product
GOSL   -   Government of Sri Lanka
MC     -   Municipal Council
NDI    -   National Institute of Management, Sri Lanka
ODM    -   United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Development
PA     -   Project Agreement
TC     -   Town Council
UC     -   Urban Council
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF -   United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
WDB    -   National Water Supply and Drainage Board, Sri Lanka
WHO    -   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Sri Lanka: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the Republic of Sri Lanka totalling the equivalent of US$14 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a water supply project. One
credit of US$9.2 million would be made from IDA resources; a second credit of
Canadian $5.0 million (US$4.8 million equivalent) would be made from Canadian
funds administered by IDA in accordance with the terms of the recently ap-
proved Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Association. The
proceeds of these two credits would be relent to the National Water Supply
and Drainage Board (WDB) for 24 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY -
2.        The latest economic report, "Sri Lanka:   Country Economic Memo-
randum" (Report No. 1425-CE, February 28, 1977) was distributed to the Exe-
cutive Directors on March 1, 1977. Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.        The economic difficulties that presently beset Sri Lanka can be
traced principally to two basic characteristics of the country's economic
and social system: first, the dependence of the economy on three export
crops -- tea, rubber and coconut -- and, second, a political commitment
to the welfare state. This commitment found its expression in two policy
tenets which, for the past quarter century, successive Governments have
followed in varying degrees: the supply of mass consumption goods, prin-
cipally food and textiles, at low prices, and the provision of public ser-
vices -- mainly education, health and transport -- free of charge or sub-
stantially below cost.
4.        Sri Lanka's progress in social fields has been noteworthy.   Public
services are widely available at little or no cost and a more equal distri-
bution of income has been achieved by maintaining relatively high wages,
subsidizing services, and distributing food free or below cost. The welfare
state has been based mainly on the earnings of the export sector. This base,
however, has been eroded by the pronounced weakening in the market for tea
and rubber that began in the mid-fifties. Its effects on the earnings of the
traditional tree crop exports, combined with the failure to establish new
sources of growth, seriously affected the ability of the economy to gener-
ate a surplus in the form of savings and exports, which in turn was one
of the main reasons for the low economic growth in the past two decades.
Between 1969/70 and 1975/76, GNP at constant prices increased at an annual
rate of about 2.8%. With population growing at a rate of about 1.7% p.a.
1/   Part I - The Economy is identical to that in Part I of the Mahaweli
Ganga Development Project II (P-2031-CE).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authoriution.



- 2 -
between 1969/70 and 1975/76, there was only a slight improvement in per
capita income.
5.        Against this background, Sri Lanka had to face the shocks generated
by the oil crisis and worldwide inflation. In response to the changed world
economic conditions, during 1974/75 the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) took
a series of measures to reduce the burden of subsidies on food and transport,
and adjusted prices of key consumer goods such as petroleum products. How-
ever, the impact was small, and the major economic problems -- increasing
domestic savings, improving the price structure, and reducing unemployment
(now estimated at 20% of the labor force) -- remain. These problems have
been compounded by severe drought in recent years.
6.        As in the previous year, 1976 was also a year of severe drought.
Nevertheless, paddy output in 1976 was about 5 million bushels above the
previous year's level of 55 million, which was the lowest since 1970. This
was ascribed to the availability of adequate water from tank irrigation in
the eastern rice growing districts. Over the past several years, a basis has
been established for a substantial rise in paddy production by improvements
in irrigation works, institutions, pricing, seed varieties, fertilizer avail-
ability, and rural roads. With good weather conditions, Sri Lanka now has
the productive potential to meet at least three-quarters of its rice require-
ments.
7.        In the tree crop sector, tea production in 1976 was down 9% and at
the lowest level for the 1970's. Severe drought again was the main cause,
but the change-over in management after the recent land reform also played a
role. The drop in output was sharpest in the mid-elevation tea areas which
were most poorly managed before the land reform. However, the production of
rubber rose 5% in 1976. Both tea and rubber benefited from substantially
higher prices. The coconut sector, on the other hand, continued to suffer
from both declining output and low prices.
8.        The tree crop sector, after the 1972 and 1975 land reforms, is in
a state of transition. As might have been expected, difficulties have emerged,
but the take-over has been orderly and, by and large, the productive capacity
of the sector seems to have been preserved. Among its major problems are the
fragmentation of management arrangements after takeover; political pressures
to disperse lands to villages and landless farmers; the backlog of maintenance
and investment by previous owners anticipating nationalization; and poor manage-
ment conditions on a substantial number of estates, especially those run by
cooperatives. For some of these and other problems no easy solutions are in
sight; however, there are some positive developments. The two most important
estate management units are the State Plantation Corporation and the Janatha
Estates Development Board (Janawasama) which was formed after the 1975 land
reform. These organizations have in part decentralized management through
regional offices and are in the process of drawing up investment plans.
Financing of these plans will be facilitated by the prevailing high tea and
rubber prices. In particular, Janawasama realized substantial profits in



- 3 -
1976. Also, plans are being prepared for the amalgamation of a large number
of estates, managed by electorate level cooperative societies, with these two
major organizational units and possibly with a third group, the Samupakara
Janawasas (individual cooperative agricultural/settlement schemes, formed
after the 1971 land reform, now in the process of being grouped together under
one organization). This would be a healthy step towards arriving at a more
efficient pattern of management.
9.        The budgetary position in 1976 deteriorated considerably as compared
with 1975. Revenue was down and both current and capital expenditures were up
from the original budget estimates. Consequently, there was a current account
deficit of Rs 474 million as compared to the previous year's deficit of Rs 305
million, and the total cash deficit rose by Rs 200 million to Rs 2,427 million.
The result of this increase in the cash deficit is that expansionary financing
was needed in the amount of at least Rs 440 million. The main reasons for
this worsening of the 1976 budget situation were: (i) lower than expected
imports, resulting in a substantial shortfall in revenue from Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificates (FEECs); (ii) the poor performance of many public
sector corporations; (iii) increase in the net food subsidy resulting from the
reduction of bread and flour prices; (iv) expenditures related to the Non-
Aligned Conference; and (v) drought relief. The 1977 budget shows a current
account deficit of Rs 87 million. Capital expenditures are expected to remain
virtually unchanged and the cash deficit to decline by about Rs 400 million to
slightly over Rs 2 billion. The estimated increase in revenue of about 10%,
however, will be vulnerable to any shortfall in the import program, as was
the case in 1976. No additional revenue measures have been proposed. The
recent revaluation of the Rupee is likely to worsen the budgetary deficit in
1977 (see para. 17).
10.       A significant feature of the 1976 budget was the effort to encour-
age economic activity in the private sector. Together with measures such as
the removal of the restriction on transport of rice, the budget signaled a
change in the Government's attitude towards the private sector. However,
announced plans for follow-up measures were held in abeyance. Thus, uncer-
tainties remain and the signals are still unclear.
11.       An encouraging development in 1976 was the apparent improvement in
Sri Lanka's terms of trade, possibly reversing the steady deterioration over
the previous decade. Tea and rubber prices rose strongly over the year,
while the price of food imports declined sharply. The improvement in tea
prices came too late in the year to offset fully the decline in the volume
of tea exports which followed a reduction in output. The rise in rubber
prices was, however, sharp enough to offset the fall in volume of rubber
exports. Coconut exports did not share the improvement in commodity prices,
and also declined in volume. The share of tree crop exports in Sri Lanka's
export earnings declined in 1976 to 71% from 76% in the previous year.
12.       The share of non-traditional exports in total exports has been
rising. In addition to measures taken in 1970 to promote minor export
crops, the Government's policies since 1973 have been providing fiscal
and financial incentives to export-oriented industries. Tourism and gem
exports, which have good prospects for further development, have now become



important sources of foreign exchange earnings. Manufactured exports, after
a temporary pause in 1975, resumed the upsurge that began in 1972/73. This
was due primarily to exports of sea foods and ready-made garments. These
non-traditional exports will be, however, adversely affected by the recent
revaluation (see para. 17).
13.       The decline in the cost of imports in 1976, due mainly to lower
food prices, made possible a substantial reduction in the current account
deficit to an estimated $46 million. The deficit was more than offset by
net capital inflows and this caused Sri Lanka's net reserves to rise for
the first time since 1973. The import program for 1977 implies a strong
deterioration in the current deficit due to a major increase in imports of
items other than food, fertilizer and petroleum.
14.       An Aid Group for Sri Lanka, for which the Bank acts as the Chair-
man, was formed in 1965 and has held twelve meetings. At the twelfth meet-
ing, held in Paris in April 1976, the members recognized Sri Lanka's need
for continued assistance, particularly in agriculture, and indicated their
intention to contribute aid of about US$180 million. However, aid group
members' actual new commitments in 1976 totalled $120 M, due, in part, to
the decline in the value of food aid caused by lower food prices. Disburse-
ment of aid from all sources in 1976 totalled $161 M, as against $202 M in
1975.
15.       Slow progress in the development of new exports and the long-term
deterioration in Sri Lanka's terms of trade, compounded by the rise in food
and petroleum prices since 1973, have greatly increased the country's require-
ments of foreign capital. Although concessional aid flows to Sri Lanka have
risen significantly, they have not been sufficient to prevent a sizeable in-
crease in the country's resort to short- and medium-term borrowing in the
early 1970s. Outstanding debt with one to five years maturity increased
from a negligible amount at the end of 1972 to $96 M (16.5% of total external
debt) at the end of 1974, and then declined to $83 M. This has been largely
responsible for the marked deterioration in the debt service ratio from 12%
in 1974 to 20% in 1975.
16.       Concessional aid flows are needed to help finance imports of main-
tenance and capital goods, which remain inadequate in relation to the economy's
requirements, without a further deterioration in the debt service ratio. Aid
is also needed to supplement the country's meager domestic resources available
for investment, and must, therefore, involve local cost financing. The import
program for 1977 provides for a sizable increase for imports of capital goods
under project aid. If this should materialize it would lead to a considerable
depletion of the project aid pipeline. Fresh commitments are needed to re-
plenish the pipeline.
17.       Following the sharp upsurge in tea and rubber prices in early 1977,
the Government revalued the rupee by an average of 20% against major curren-
cies on March 12, 1977, in order to translate what it considered to be exces-
sive windfall profits to the producers of these commodities into benefits to
the consumer in the form of lower prices for imports. This measure has been
followed by an increase in the rice ration, the increase being subject to the



- 5 -
availability of stocks. As the volume of imports remains tightly controlled,
the immediate effects of these moves on Sri Lanka's economic and financial
position seem manageable, although the budgetary deficit will be larger, and
consequently inflationary pressures stronger, than estimated at the time the
budget was presented. However, it is difficult to reconcile the revaluation
with the developmental needs of an economy that has suffered from inadequate
savings to finance investment; that must diversify its exports; and that
demands continuing attention to the adequacy of incentives for agricultural
production. Resolution of these conflicts between short-term benefits to
the consumer and the longer-term developmental needs of the economy will have
to be left to the new government that takes office after the national elec-
tions due to be held by late September.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
18.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the
Bank Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancel-
lations) and eleven credits totalling US$103.2 million (net of cancellations
and exchange adjustments) in support of 17 projects. About 34% of Bank Group
assistance has been for power, 52% for agriculture (irrigation and agricultural
and dairy development), and the remainder for Development Finance Company (DFC)
operations, highways, and a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw
materials for industry). Three early power loans, the two loans to the De-
velopment Finance Corporation, the credit for the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Project I, and the program credit were satisfactorily completed and fully dis-
bursed. At the request of the Borrower, a loan/credit for highways was can-
celled in 1970 following the Government's decision to make major changes in
the scope of the project; US$0.8 million of the credit had been disbursed.
The IFC's only investment in Sri Lanka, US$3.25 million to the Pearl Textile
Mills, Ltd. (Ceylon), was made in January 1970, but cancelled the same year
at the request of the Company. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
Group operations as of March 31, 1977, together with notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
19.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focussed heavily on the agri-
cultural sector in order to support government efforts to increase food pro-
duction and to improve productivity in the tree crops subsector. However,
projects in basic infrastructure are also included. A proposed project for
diversification of crops on marginal lands now under tea and rubber is being
prepared by the Government and an FAO/UNDP team with IDA assistance. Prep-
aration has begun on an integrated rural development project for the Kurune-
gala District and on a tree crop rehabilitation project aimed at maintaining
quantity and quality of Sri Lankan tea ouitput as some tea lands are diverted
to other uses. Projects in other fields including drainage and land recla-
mation and dry farming are being prepared for possible IDA financing.
20.       The Bank Group presently accounts for nearly 13% (and the Bank alone
for about 5%) of Sri Lanka's total external debt outstanding, and about 5%



- 6 -
(with IDA negligible) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's
share in total external debt will decline to about 9% by 1980 (and the Bank's
share alone to fall to less than 2%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt
service will also show a slight decline.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE IN SRI LANKA
21.       The most densely populated area of Sri Lanka is the southwestern
coastal strip where some 25% of the population is located on 2% of the country's
total land area. There are no adequate groundwater sources; however, large
rivers flowing westward from the highlands provide ample water sources for
the fifty or so towns and communities located in the area, together with five
larger urban centers including Colombo, the capital city. Shortages of whole-
some piped water in this region result largely from a lack of financial re-
sources to implement pumping, treatment and distribution of the abundant al-
though polluted river waters.
22.       The present water service to the southwest coast urban and tourism
centers supplies only part of the population for part of the time; some areas
have no service at all, and the quality of piped water is sometimes doubt-
ful. Because the supply of piped water in the metropolitan area of Colombo
is intermittent, particularly in times of drought, there is an increased
risk of polluted ground water being drawn into the mains during periods of
shutdown. Both the interruption of supply and the absence of a piped water
supply in some areas, encourage the use of water sources of unsatisfactory
quality, including shallow wells frequently polluted by inadequate sanitation
facilities nearby. Health statistics show that water-borne diseases are
present in the area, and their transmission among resident population and
foreign tourists is more likely in the absence of a safe water service.
23.       In order to address the water supply and sewerage needs of this
southwest coastal area, studies for a Mfaster Plan were prepared under a
UNDP project executed by WHO in 1972 (UNDP project area, see map IBRD 12531).
The first phase of the Master Plan recommendations comprised a series of
components designed to improve water supplies to urban centers to meet water
demands of tourism and industry as well as growth of domestic water consump-
tion which these developments help to promote. Although some of these water
supply components have been completed with bilateral assistance, implemen-
tation in general has been limited by lack of financial resources. For ex-
ample, severe water shortages have prompted the Government to proceed with
planned improvements to the head works for the water system serving Colombo
and adjacent towns. However, the additional treated water from these head
works cannot be conveyed to consumers unless foreign exchange is made avail-
able for the improvement of associated pumping and transmission facilities,
permitting full benefit to be derived from the previous investment in the
head works.
24.       Nationwide, a summary of water services data from the 1971 census
indicates that about 2.0 million people (77%) of the 2.6 million urban



-7-
population have access to piped water but that the quality and quantity
of a large portion of these supplies are unsatisfactory. Of the 8.8 million
rural population, only some 0.4 million (5%) have access to piped water. The
situation is somewhat different on agricultural estates where about 75% of
about 1.1 million estate dwellers have piped water. However, the more
sparsely populated, rural northern and eastern areas of the country rely
heavily on ground water from individual family or small community wells,
although Government, with financial assistance from UNICEF, is undertaking
a program to improve water supplies in rural areas.
25.       Government policy has traditionally required that sanitation pro-
grams be coordinated with water supply programs and supported by health
education. This ideal has not always been achieved and much still needs to
be done to improve and extend water-borne sewerage systems particularly in
urban areas. For example, the city of Colombo is the only urban area served
by such a system, and this system was identified in the Master Plan as requir-
ing substantial improvement and expansion. In rural areas, over half the
population have sanitation facilities, and a Government-sponsored project is
under way to provide simple but adequate facilities for the remainder.
26.       The National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) came into being
in January 1975 under legislation enacted in 1974, superseding the government
Department of Water Supply as the agency primarily responsible for planning,
design, and construction of water supply systems throughout Sri Lanka.
Distribution systems are usually operated and maintained by local authorities,
although in a number of cases WDB operates and maintains head works or entire
systems; both the WDB and the local authorities are under the control of the
Minister of Local Government. The 1974 law, which provides the statutory
framework governing the sector for the entire country, also deals with general
operational matters, including rates for water supply and sewerage, and
prescribes penalties for pollution of water courses used for water supply.
27.       The Government and WDB are presently preparing a formal investment
plan for the sector to be financed by Government and supplemented by foreign
exchange grants or loans. The plan includes: urban water supply projects for
the southwest region, for which the Government has requested IDA participa-
tion; a further rural water supply program, for which UNICEF financial assist-
ance has been requested and which is a continuation of the first UNICEF pro-
gram now being implemented; water supply and sewerage works in further urban
areas, possibly to be assisted by IDA; and continuation of present small rural
sanitation programs. The major constraint on development, however, continues
to arise from the inadequacy of foreign exchange allocations for some of the
vital elements of the water supply and sewerage systems.
28.       Hlistorically, the responsibility for water supply and sewerage
systems rested with local councils; more recently WDB assumed responsibility
for a number of these systems, either at the request of local authorities or
through their reluctance or inability to efficiently operate their systems.
Almost all of the systems are dilapidated because of the lack of foreign
exchange to obtain replacement machinery and parts and due to low standards



- 8 -
of maintenance. Thus, WDB is faced with day to day operational problems, in
addition to its responsibilities for improving national standards of operation
and maintenance, renovating a number of systems, and planning and developing
new systems. Although currently staffed with capable engineers, WDB's task of
achieving an acceptable level of operation and maintenance of existing and
proposed facilities may become more difficult because of increasing losses
of skilled staff to overseas markets. In order to strengthen WDB, the Govern-
ment is reviewing programs for providing incentives to retain the services of
WDB engineers, training programs for newly recruited and less experienced
engineers and for providing increased amounts of foreign exchange for purchas-
ing spare parts.
29.       Government financing policy for the sector is presently changing
from one in which water was regarded as a free good to one in which specific
charges will be levied for both water and sanitation. The Government's
intentions to make direct consumer charges for water are evident from the
metering and water tariffs established in the water systems in the cities
of Galle and Kandy and in its stated intention to meter all new systems
implemented in the southwest coastal area. Although the eventual structure
must await the completion of further tariff studies, it is envisaged that any
future tariff system will provide protection for the poor in that quantities
of water essential for the health and welfare of the people will be provided
free or at very low charge. It is expected that considerably higher charges
will be made for water in quantities exceeding this level and that the long-
term goal will be to make the operation of the various systems financially
self-supporting.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       The proposed project would be the first Bank Group operation in the
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector undertaken in Sri Lanka. The project was
identified and prepared as a component of the UNDP/ WHO Master Plan (para 23).
Engineering design of the project was updated by the Government of Sri Lanka
and prepared with assistance of IDA missions in December 1975 and April 1976.
It was appraised in September/October 1976. A report entitled "Sri Lanka:
Appraisal of the Water Supply Project" (No. 1424-CE) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A credit and project summary is
attached in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
March 16 to March 23, 1977. The Government of Sri Lanka was represented by
a negotiating team led by Mr. C. Ameresekere, Secretary, Ministry Local
Government.
Project Description
31.       The project contains two major construction elements.    One element
consists of interconnected systems centered on Colombo and includes: (i)
the improvement of existing piped water supplies to five adjacent towns, i.e.,



- 9 -
Towns South, peripheral to Colombo and south of a major river, the Kelani
Ganga; (ii) the improvement of water supplies to Colombo; and (iii) provision
of piped water to five Towns North, adjacent to Colombo but north of the
Kelani Ganga. The second element would provide new piped water supplies to
two towns, Ambalangoda and Kalutara, located some 40 miles south of Colombo.
The project also includes provision for expenditures for spare parts and
equipment, technical assistance and training.
32.       The Kelani Ganga is the source from which 20 million gallons per day
of additional water is to be obtained for the Colombo-based element of the
project. Abstraction and treatment of the river water will take place at
Ambatale, where the necessary expansion of an existing intake and treatment
plant is presently under construction; the project will provide associated
pumping, transmission and distribution facilities. In addition to direct
river abstraction from the Kelani Ganga at Ambatale, present supplies to the
Greater Colombo area are obtained from two impounding reservoirs (Kalatuwawa
and Labugama). The Master Plan recommends that these sources continue to
supply the water needs of the Greater Colombo area and that the projected
increase in water requirements be met by increasing abstraction from the
Kelani Ganga.
33.       Besides the staged expansion of pumping and water treatment facil-
ities at the Ambatale works, a reorientation of the existing treated-water
transmission system is proposed. This reorientation will involve an "inte-
gration" of the three existing sources of supply and associated transmission
systems in the Colombo area to achieve the least cost solution recommended
by the Master Plan Report (since retention of the existing allocation of
water would immediately entail additional transmission mains). The integrated
system will necessitate a redistribution of some of Colombo's less expensive,
gravity-fed water to Towns South, and its substitution by more expensive pumped
water.
34.       Each of the two towns remote from the Colombo system, Kalutara and
Ambalangoda, will be supplied from separate sources to be developed as part
of the project. The cost of these systems per head of population will be
relatively high and financial viability is not expected to be realized until
population and water demands reach projected, higher levels, probably after
1990. However, the continued growth of these communities, and the already
active tourist industry in the area, will be adversely influenced by a con-
tinued dependence on existing shallow well sources. The provision of piped
water is therefore essential if the health and welfare of these communities
are to be preserved.
35.       The project would improve the existing piped water supply system
to approximately 1.2 million people in Colombo and the five Towns South. The
project would also provide new water supply systems for some 410,000 people
in five Towns North and in Ambalangoda and Kalutara.
36.       Because of the need to provide improved sewerage services (para 25)
and at Government's request, a technical assistance component under the proj-
ect would provide engineering services for preparation of a further package of



- 10 -
works comprising the improvement of existing sewerage facilities in Colombo
and provision of sewage collection and disposal facilities in areas which have
piped water supplies, including Towns South, Negombo and Galle. Consulting
engineers would be employed to complete detailed engineering designs and
tender documents for sewerage and drainage improvements in the selected areas
(PA Section 2.03); this would enable WDB to implement the construction work
under a subsequent program beginning in 1981. A training program for WDB
personnel has also been included under the project which would include finan-
cial and accounting as well as engineering staff. A tariff study (para 43) to
provide a basis for a well-structured system of retail water charges has also
been included.
37.       A major objective of the project is institution building.   The newly
formed (January 1975) National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) has nation-
wide responsibilities in planning, developing and operating water supply and
sanitation facilities (para 26). It would be the bulk supply agency in the
Colombo area and the beneficiary of the Credit. The Credit will assist WDB
in becoming an effective national agency.
Organization and Implementation
38.       The Government has taken several major steps toward implementing
the Master Plan's institutional recommendations. These steps have included
the formation of WDB and the completion of a study and report by the National
Institute of Management (NIM) to identify the most acceptable institutional
reform that would enable one agency to operate the integrated system of water
supply facilities serving Colombo Municipality and adjacent towns. In Sep-
tember 1976 the National Planning Council, under the chairmanship of the Prime
Minister, decided that the integrated system should be implemented and that
the system would be operated by WDB. Based upon this decision, the Ministry
of Local Government proposes to implement the following institutional organ-
ization within the project area:
(a) WDB will operate the integrated facilities to supply
water in bulk to Colombo Municipality and Towns South.
(b)  Colombo Municipality and Towns South Municipalities
will operate and maintain their respective distribution
systems. These authorities will also render bills and
collect all water revenue.
(c) The proposed project for Towns North, Kalutara and
Ambalangoda will be operated and maintained by the WDB
which will also render bills and collect revenue in res-
pect of these areas.
39.       As executing agency for the project, WDB will form a separate group
of engineers under the supervision of an Assistant General Manager to imple-
ment the project. The Government has recognized the possibility that WDB may



- 11 -
lose a number of experienced engineers to overseas markets during the course
of the project (para 28), and proposes to make available additional competent
engineers from other government agencies to supervise the project if the need
should arise; alternatively, the Government would engage local consulting
engineers to carry out the work of construction supervision (DCA Section
3.05). In addition, WDB will take actions to strengthen its financial oper-
ations through: filling senior financial positions and adequately staffing
the accounting department; ensuring coordination between the Engineering and
Finance Departments; implementation of recommended financial control systems;
and establishment of appropriate financial rules/regulations (PA Section
4.04).
40.       Although Colombo Municipality and local authorities in Towns South
are responsible for operation and maintenance of their own distribution sys-
tems, it is envisaged that WDB will assist the small authorities with any
major distribution works and also periodically examine all distribution sys-
tems in the project area to ensure that there is no undue leakage. For this
purpose, WDB proposes to establish a leakage detection unit, with the assist-
ance of a training component under this project. WDB will carry out distri-
bution inspections, provide assistance as required, and assume responsibility
for systems in which the Minister of Local Government considers that the
standards of operation and maintenance are below a satisfactory level (PA
Section 3.05).
41.       WDB also proposes to extend consumer metering to reduce the present
high levels of waste of water and to establish and maintain adequate meter
testing and repair facilities for the project area (DCA Section 3.03). It is
estimated that connections to all consumers (excluding standpipes), throughout
the project area will be metered by 1986. The program requires the installa-
tion of some 70,000 meters, and will be supported by ongoing assistance from
the United Kingdom in meter testing and repair facilities.
42.       WDB's bulk tariffs for the project area would be increased from
the present low average rate of Rs 0.60 (US$0.07)/1,000 Imperial Gallons (Ig),
which has not permitted WDB to cover its operating expenses, to an average
rate of Rs 0.96 (US$0.13)/ 1,000 Ig in 1978, and to successively higher levels
thereafter to enable WDB to cover its operating expenses and debt service and
to begin financing a portion of the capital investment from internal cash
generation. As a first step, WDB has agreed to implement an interim tariff
increase satisfactory to IDA not later than October 1, 1977. WDB would there-
after maintain tariffs in the project area at a level to produce, within the
project area, a minimum rate of return on reasonably valued average net fixed
assets in operation of 5% in 1978, 6% in 1979, 1980 and 1981 and 7% thereafter.
For operations outside the project area, WDB would be required to ensure
sufficient revenue to completely sustain those operations so that they are not
subsidized from the project area (PA Section 4.05). The Government will ensure
the payment of future bills rendered by WDB for water supplied to the local
authorities (DCA Section 4.02).   Under these arrangements WDB would, commencing
in 1981, be financing about 30% of its capital investment programs from internal
sources. In addition, WDB has agreed not to incur any long-term debt unless



- 12 -
the 12-month net revenues (before depreciation) would cover maximum future debt
service at least 1.5 times (PA Section 4.07).
43.       With regard to retail tariffs, the status of currently available
records and accounts at the local distribution level preclude the introduction,
in the short term, of a properly structured and adequate tariff system. In
order to begin to evolve a rational system for Sri Lanka, a tariff study for
the project area has been included under the project which will take into
account such factors as: (i) differing costs of providing water supply; (ii)
the different categories of consumers, i.e. domestic, commercial, industrial,
and their ability to pay; (iii) the need to provide minimum quantities of water
to low income groups; (iv) the alternatives to full subsidization of standpipe
supplies; (v) reduction of waste; and (vi) the extent to which it would be
feasible to self-finance capital investment and to move toward a tariff level
based on marginal costs. The study will be completed by March 1, 1978, after
which recommendations mutually agreed with IDA will be implemented (DCA Section
3.07). In the interim, the Government will cause local authorities to maintain
tariffs at a level to produce sufficient revenue to cover cash operating
expenses and debt service. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Government will cause each local authority distributing water in the project
area: (i) to establish separate accounts for its water supply operations not
later than December 31, 1977, (ii) to assure prompt payment of consumer water
bills, and (iii) to refrain from diverting water revenues to other purposes in
such a way as to prevent efficient operation and maintenance of its water,
sewerage and drainage systems in accordance with generally accepted engineering
and management standards (DCA Section 4.02, 4.04(a)). In addition, the Govern-
ment will ensure that the principal repaid and interest paid by WDB on loans
incurred by WDB for construction of assets in the project area, subsequently
handed over to local authorities, are fully recovered (DCA Section 4.03).
44.       At present no agency has responsibility for monitoring water
quality, although the Colombo Municipality and WDB have the capacity and
facilities to carry out the requisite examinations. To improve water quality
monitoring, the Government will implement an appropriate system of routine
water examination by an agency independent of WDB and distribution authorities
(DCA Section 3.04).
Cost and Financing
45.       Total project cost is estimated at US$42.5 million equivalent in-
cluding FEECs (US$9.0 million), custom duty (US$3.1 million), and allowances
for physical and price contingencies. The proposed IDA credit of US$9.2 mil-
lion together with the proposed IDA administered credit of Canadian $5.0
(US$4.8 million) would finance the total foreign exchange requirements of
US$14.0 million or about 46% of total project costs excluding FEECs and
custom duties. Details of project cost are included in Annex III. The IDA
administered credit would be in accordance with the terms of an agreement
between the Government of Canada and the Association which was approved by
the Board on April 12, 1977 and pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement



- 13 -
between the Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association acting as administrator
on behalf of the Government of Canada. Conditions of IDA credit effectiveness
would be the effectiveness of the IDA administered credit (DCA Section 6.02)
and the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of WDB (DCA Section 6.01
(b)). A special condition of effectiveness of the IDA administered credit
would be the effectiveness of the IDA credit.
46.       Funds from the credits would be onlent to WDB as a government loan
at an annual interest rate of 9% and a term of 24 years, including a five-year
grace period during which payment of interest would be waived. Execution
of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of Sri Lanka and WDB
would be a condition of effectiveness (DCA Section 6.02). In addition, the
Government will make loans to WDB in order to assist the latter in carrying
out the distribution works at an annual interest rate of 5% over a term of 30
years, including a five-year grace period during which payment of interest
shall be waived (DCA Section 3.02). The Government will also provide equity
contributions toward the cost of headworks.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       All contracts to be financed under the IDA and IDA administered
credits would be awarded under international competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with the Association's Guidelines, with the exception of contracts
under US$100,000 and totalling not more than US$0.5 million which would not
justify the more complex procedures of international competitive bidding.
Such contracts would be awarded under local bidding procedures acceptable to
the Association. Foreign bidders are expected to win all contracts for
treatment plant equipment, pumping equipment, specialized work of mains
renovation and for a large portion of the pipes. Sri Lankan contractors are
expected to win all other contracts. It is probable that PVC or cast-iron
pipes that are manufactured in Sri Lanka will be appropriate for some distrib-
ution mains; a 15% margin of preference (or applicable tariffs, whichever is
less) would be allowed for these, and any other locally-manufactured items, in
evaluating bids. A margin of preference of 7.5% would also be allowed for
local civil works contractors.
48.       The proceeds of the IDA and IDA administered credits would be dis-
bursed over a five-year period. Disbursements would be made against 100% of
the foreign exchange costs for directly-imported equipment or ex-factory costs
of locally-manufactured goods and 60% of local expenditures for imported goods
procured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be made against 100%
of foreign expenditures for foreign contractors and 36% of local expenditures
for local contractors for construction of headworks and transmission mains.
Disbursements would also be made against 100% of foreign expenditures for
consultant services and training. The IDA and IDA administered credits would
be disbursed in a ratio of 9.2:5. A disbursement schedule is included in Annex
III.
49.       In order to expedite procurement under the project, final engineering
designs, together with associated tender documents, have already been prepared.



- 14 -
Benefits and Risks
50.       Hardships imposed by the present water shortages tend to affect the
poorer section of the community more than the middle or higher income groups.
The latter are more able to provide their own means of alleviating shortages
and are not forced to rely entirely on the public system. While the poorer
sections of the urban community will benefit most from improved water supply
systems, industrial, commercial and tourist establishments will also benefit.
51.       In Colombo, and adjacent towns, water shortages have prompted the
Government to proceed with improvements of headworks at Ambatale, despite
the inadequacies of the system to convey water from the improved headworks
to consumers. These inadequate links would be strengthened under the proj-
ect and interdependent components of facilities presently under construction
would be completed, permitting full benefit to be obtained from previous
investments in the Ambatale works.
52.       In addition to realizing benefits from recent investments, the
improved Ambatale works together with associated transmission and distribu-
tion improvements would bring water to 250,000 new consumers in Towns North,
in addition to providing a 24-hour daily service to 1.2 million consumers
in Colombo and Towns South in 1981. Without these works, the standard of
service would decline further as the population grows.
53.       The new systems proposed for Kalutara, Ambalangoda and adjacent
communities would provide adequate, safe water to 160,000 new consumers in
1981. Without these works the growth of commerce, industry and tourism in
the area will be restricted. Continued use of existing shallow well sources,
and their proximity to inadequate sanitation facilities, constitutes a danger
to public health and a consequent risk to the potential growth of the tourist
industry in this area.
54.       In addition to providing a safe and continuous supply of water to
all sections of the community, the project will extend consumer metering
and will introduce tariffs that are financially adequate and which discourage
waste and excessive consumption yet provide sufficient water to meet the
essential daily requirements of the poor at affordable cost.
55.       The ability of various income groups to pay for water will be
thoroughly investigated as part of the proposed tariff study (para 43).
In the meantime, however, existing data indicates that the impact of real-
istic tariffs on consumers in Colombo and smaller urban areas may impose
some hardship on the lowest income groups although higher income groups
should experience little difficulty. Thus a small portion of the cost of
water may have to be absorbed by the higher income categories and larger
consumers, through suitably structured tariffs. If the Government chooses
to relieve the consumers of a portion of this burden through an operating
subsidy to the retail distribution authorities, such subsidy would not exceed
the estimated cost of water supplied through standpipes except in the case of
drought or extreme emergencies (DCA Section 4.01).



- 15 -
56.       Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. Some financial risk may arise from political and
social pressure to avoid tariff increases as needed in the future to achieve
the rates of return required for the financial viability of WDB. However
the proposed tariff study would recommend tariffs which maximize revenues with-
in the consumers' ability to pay and provide an equitable tariff structure.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Sri
Lanka and the Association, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the
Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association as Administrator on behalf of the
Government of Canada, the draft Project Agreement between the Association, the
Association as Administrator on behalf of the Government of Canada, and the
National Water Supply and Drainage Board, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of a Resolution approving the proposed credits are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Conditions of special interest of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex IV. Special conditions of effectiveness for the IDA credit are
the execution of an acceptable subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
of Sri Lanka and the WDB (DCA Section 6.02), the effectiveness of the IDA
administered credit (DCA Section 6.01 (a)), and the execution of the Project
Agreement on behalf of WDB (DCA Section 6.01 (b)). A special condition of
effecitveness of the IDA administered credit would be the effectiveness
of the IDA Credit.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the IDA administered credit
would comply with the criteria established by the recently approved agreement
between the Government of Canada and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
April 21, 1977






ANN EX I
WToi101 I. pages
SRI LANKA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU ER2).........................
I----------                        ~~~~~~SRI LANKA                        REFERENCE COUSoTmIES I11910,
ToTAL        65.6                                         'jilT RECENr
AS9IC.        24,.2                      1 960       1910   VI r IMNAIE         IMNZNAI A  PHILIPPITNES    1ALAYOIEA**
uNt' e<A CAPITA   U SU)                     6 0.0     Io0.       1 50. 0              124.0       23 0 .0      I440.0
POPiILATIIT  AND VItAL STATISIICS
POPULATION 1M1LThYR. MILLIC,N)             9 .9      1 2.5      13.6*                t2.9 At     3 6 .9      10. 4
PUPULATIUNA OCNSITT
PER )oJAHT hM.II. 15.                              91.0      707.0)               14.0       12 3.0        32 .0
PER Si. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND             .-     5 06. 0     5 45.')              24.0       21 9. 0      2 91. 0
AIIAL STATISTICS
CRUODE BIRTH RATS (/T'HOU, AV.         31.6        33.1       286                 50.5         4 4.2       42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU. AV.)           10.?        6.0        6.53                0 40        1 3.2       12.9
INF ANT MOR TA L ITY R'. tE I ITHDOU)  52. 0      5 0.0       49.0               160.04 6ba0. 0            60.6/a
LIF EXCPECTANCY At AIRTR 1YR5)         6 0.5      6 5.86      61.0                41.6        ,.A6         56. 7 
GROSS `tEPROOUCtIJN RATE                2.5         2.3        Z.e                 3.2          3.3         2.6/a
eOPULArION GROWITH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                   2. 6       2. 4        1.1                 3.0 IA      3. 0         2.6
GRBAN                                   5. 0/a      4. 5       U.t                 5 .6         4 .0        3. 0
AURUNA POPULA TION I t OF TUOIAL)         19.11%/    2 2.0      22. 4/a               6.0        27I.6b       26.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                         41'. 5     4 0.0       091a                4 4.4A/     4 5.6        AA . I/a
15 TO 64 TEARS                         543/       56.0       536. 4 j             ,.o7        5 1. 6       52  7a
65 TEARs AND OVRC                       4.ZZF       4.:0       4.3 a               2 .6 S      2 .68        3 .27
AGE OEPETtOENCT kATIO                      0.8B/b     0.0 a      O.A/a               0.-9/A       0. 9        0 .9 /a
ECONOMIC DEPEADENCT RATIO                  1. 57      1. 4       I.LZE                1.2 7-at    1. 5 
FAGAILY PLANINRIG
ACCEPTORS ICUR4ULATIVE. rAe H. .                 215.3       441.5                  ..       35 4 .0      22. /a
uStIlG (I Of MARRIED 4OMIN)                         I .  .0    9.'                  ..          2 .0        6.D7i
LRMP LO( IL ItI
To TAL 984? IORCE ITHUUJSANOI          S5 so.o 0b 4100.0      48 00. 0            5600.0/4p12330.0         2900.O/a
LAbOR FrCVL IN ARA ICULIuME (Xi)          4 9.0      5 2.0 I a  5 5.0/a              9 RI0'Z&.   55.0/a      43. G7;
UNCHMPLOYLU 10 OF LAtddie FURLI,           4.0        9.0 79      . o.                            1.          6 .)7Tb
I1425U1If1   S T hI I UI IlOre
C .  el'IVATF INCUR?L RCL'J 'Y-1
tHIGHEST  'es of tiOUd.eiOLVS          26.4/b      18.0       1 8.6               33 .5          .         2. 3
HIGHES   200eO  OF HUUSEenLOLS         52.1I7&    4 5 .6      42. 8               63...         356. 0
L    'ES  )1 OF IIUUSEHOLIS         4.5;       74          13.0.35
FoREST   431 Of' leuUSErOLDS           13.I7U      17 .0      19.4                 l.            ..        11 . 2
o WNELD AT T,It IoIX OF jWNRIHS..                     ......
O uWAuEl BY iRALLEST 10G OWNERS..                      ......
ICLALIRAH . AAl TIRIIOa
P'Ol-LAT I dle ,ER PHYSIEIAN            1,620./d       ..     3900.0A/           21570.0 /R,s
eUreiLeLt lOth PER NURSING PERSON      411I0.0D    271.0c     2010.0 Zej          4 890.0 /a.       .      3000a
Pj UPLATI ION PER HOSPITAL RED          290.0 j'd   10.o       340.  7.              00.0 _     850.0      02170 o:O /
r's13 CAP'ITA SUPPLO OF-
LALUHIEA (4 OF REIJITRECI,Ts1          92. 0     107 .0      1 01.0               13.0       to00. 0         . /d
110' rCIt IN GHAMS PER DAT)            4 5 .0     5 0. 0      45. 0               43 .0       4 5.0        4 9 o /&~_0
- S1 4HICHi ANIMAL AND PULSE         135. 0     16. 0       1 5.0               23.0        2 2. 0       2020 o
UENTN RATE (I/HOU) AGES 1-4..                          ..       16.8                   .          9.0         5. 5
RO)JASTED ENROLLmENr RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         95.O/      101.0 /d   102.0 /a.            36.0&       180     ~    8. 
SECONDARY SCOL2.0 70                               5.: 2030 1j                                 48. 0       34. /0.
YEARS3 OF SOROIULING PRovIDED            20            .0&       20a 
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL).              12. 0       12.0       12.0                13.0         0 0.0       13.  1!.
VOCATIONAL ENROnLLMENT
(t UT SECOrIDARYI                                   I .  .0 ~    .*6.0 /a                                   3. 0 /a
AUJLTr LITERACT RATE Cl)                 61.0A/6       .        70. 1                  ..          ..
tHuOS LAG
PE RsOLNS PER 9009 (UTRBAN)                A.          .         z.~ ? /                          2.1          2. 3 /a
OCCUPIEDOUWELLINGS WITHOUT
PTI'ED RATER CX)                       0 0.8 9  b             68. 8A              so.0&a.     7 6.0        65. 0 &if
ACCESS tO ELECTRICITY
I1 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    t .5/b       .         9.0 A.                         2 3.         4 3.0/
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (VI)                     2. 31%b                2.8s /a                          1.0        30. 0/a
CONSUMP TION
RA010 RECEIVERS EPER THOU Pop)            36.0       41.0         .                  11.0        45.0         41.0
PASSENGEk CAPS (PER THOU POP)              8.0        7.0        1.0                  3.0         8.0        2I.0
ELECTkeICITT (RAN/YR PER CAP)             31. 0      6 5.0      17.0                 31 .0 La   23 5.0      382. 0/a
NENS3PAINT 1KG/YR PER CAP)                 1.2        1.5        0.1                  0.1         2.0           , 
 ..  . . .    ... .  .. . . .    .   . . . . ... .. ..  . .. . .    . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . ..    .   .   . . . .. .   .
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS 0N REVCRSE



AdONbX I
?.age 2 of' 6 po,:c.
NOTES
bol  h- l  -nntl,od, data for 1 tO -rf- t. any -er between 1959 and 1961, ion 1970 ht-etom 1968 and 1970, .,-I for Ra-t Snoo-t anti-te.1 0000
1075 on   970.
lopa1l1ot o  fon Vt76 -retoa)      eti-tsad as 13.8nilo.
Tesotinof Malay.Ia as an-   ,oty      nor15 boed -n it. ability to hobn             ilt. rate or  --noi,, ,-th alt!,r,nqatlod            t
'If.r   makngI. At .a -table ob.;eti- for polIcynahkr    In Sri Lanka.
.;RI LAIKLA    1')t 9   /a  1 ttT;3-4 3; A/b 190;     /0  Fegit-rd    Pjplloot, t-r c-rk;     /d  196?;    A I.  1.' and 13-1t,.,t.iayr-poto.;
1970    /A.6     orotg     of rpnysot         b   Rieglnterd aanA1           A/  tinor-mot ,1        /d   t-.lt antdII -1   t  of   -
-oprotoely;       /0  itotase  1965 and 1970 the daratior, or onca   ae.a....dar,, *dt-atinoua  Inotot r-a h Lo 71 -,r.
ft l.tooootiola1 nIntc.Is. rofer to te.nisilcl i-natlt-ai    atanied to the   iiar     of ida-tlo-   -tis.
MOST RECoSNT ESTIMATE:   Ia  1371;    /b  Ra tio or ppalatlo. ad,!r I'; and 65 and --o in total Ilabor fon /..         As z,t-,-,jn
of osployn.tInt     d  R. glonered aneoplaynd;    It' 1972;    Ir   onrn-o-t oat,;          t10-tta,t 11-17
-ear  of one -epsolloely.
TAT:UNIA       1970     a   talfy    Tan-ania     It   1967;   /A   IaindIldo  assistant -odioa1 Mfie-s;      /lt lhcl.dioL nianitt- Ott, ,, t 
In  7-13 and I6-19 Year af ag     -pacti-loly.
(;LT-I'tINEUS  17(0     /a  As p,ot....at~,,r o -oplo,-et;   A, 7-12 and 1 3-16 Iet a of a, o osrp-nti-nI.      '0  i,tt- j-rla,tj , Jro- 00  ot,,
-1-1a  or -oct Io_nI nhort-tor    anes
9lALAYfiA       1970    /A  Wo-  oLaoo        At   logriot-ord upolinata for wohi6    In   ino-rnet. oni.       Idltc      ,     1,L     gY.., t. 
7r  I 96f;  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/,  PIpcIt,uooor                                           17
DEF1INITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICAITOMS
Land Area Ltho_u las                                                               PoPa1anion oP- naraing Psro-   - P'npaIiania  dioldod by -,sto- ot prat-it-,t
T-ri    Tonai oufa..c ro    nopnia fog Sand area and inland   catrs,                 male and femal graduato har-on     ira-ned  or "-oiflod" nar--a a,d
A-nn.    MI, Lrtet    n iott   of, noialga no           d noop-rily o               asnliay P.r-n..aI .Oth tanu          reprnc
pn  Istanuti  Ior cop.      L_ootorkL. oahe  kto   gadens or no lie             Ppaouti.      po t ea  hospital bod - Population di,ided by nth-t of 1-optt-o1 tod,
faliew.                                                       ava~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilable in pa1,1io and pnioo-n g-ner1 and nyp-iol1ned hn,pt. ol 00
rokhbilination -enea,eldo- --itrlog bone         a-desaitonafr
CoP nor     itmo 1US$  - CNlPIpe  -npito  -tiatato a1 --ntoo  narket pcioes ,       ounodia1 and provton-onnor
oaicaiaeed bY aeon oonnt ion nat-ho   as World Bonk A0100 (1973-75 basin).       Per ospina 500Pm  of Ialonlen tOa   rno  in,on  :)opno,,d tro        --o0,
160,9 190 and 1971 dat.                                                          eaantofntfood a-ppli- -eavtolabie iJ.to                 por -pyit -o  e  day,
.P.nltn au .d vit-o     -etaiaed thsn                                                             neoot.ntoplt.a- en, Sa, a,tol         -od    od     q   ,I e
Poplotonbidor.aiti      Al 00 oIlJly fIr    If our acojble..                  :od in food pen-... ion and Ionom  indiat-dibooan. roqatm-n-cor
anooOn00 oo  nd-yoo  eoione 1960O, 1970Iond  975 dt-.                     eLsiloand by FA0 b-od on ptoyoloIloiic    I   Iooa  atno-ti -,tloy sttd
heal1th ....nidarion  -on-rnnot-ol nesp-    -co   body coight,  age ood -o
fonlofondeolt-onanuretan-Mld-y-a pnpuiatl-n per aq..r        kilo-         diotibutiona nof ltPlaio        d .11inulg 10T for ..nto 00 1--haebod la,cl
Via  raitt                                                                     Roao     Srin      prooidn Oct a ol,rAn, viloatto     -10d'       of
fr,ad. birth tom  P oth ....an. dooaeAno-a       lIon births po- nhb.u.oed           talp0m          otday, and 20 gr-a of onno        d polat- pronefoof
of mid-near popoILai"`; eon Year .'IUnet       aoergen ending So 5960 and          abiob 10 grams  hbauld ho oittil pro,tci., il,-t ataoItdt am II- oor.
1970  -td fII--Y..t -n-on    -odiag itt 197). for moot toce eat inee,              cboe th.oo of 75 groon of tota   -rtl oad 21t     --00    aolta-1 p-tolo
fondo d-atb rate perhbo   a.. onora-     Ano,,-I deahs pot LI-onad of mid-           Os s  aooa oOu titn      r-Id. Pcptop..d b, I'Att I  ttt- IhIrd World Food
ye-t PoPulooloo. te-yea    otittaob Lanr ne       dleg io 1960 _od 1970sd          SurvY.
fI.e_y-yo   - tangnalendi.g I. 197) for     c_ oust ooo   LetototeaPr osit. vcrt;ain qnael frcs animl a                         I. pla- Pct-..  sapply of foad
Ioae entaift-y nate (/bh.l! - OnA...l d-oth  of i,f.fotn aod.e on  year            dorioed  'en  anial  and poison ito gr-n  Per t,
oF ago pot tboooaod lII   birthn-                                                Deth rob   0thoal 0000I-4 - A-.u.I doatba poe tich,      da age gro..
LSnnot ... y at birth (yin)  A-    ,,nrg  tubo   yt orr  oI life onosin-        1-4 yeora. no child...i    ti   an   ooa.    accso. Ps      ntdinacot of
Sog an birth, aoally ftv--yoor an    -indint in 1960.1978 and                      oaln-nnition.
1975 foe don-lopini --ooties
gross VCPcrdOoti.. ctate- A-c.e onb-r of lIne daEb-t          snoaal                d-tai..
hear in hee ounooI reprod-ga- Period If Ille -npori,,nsg presspt age-            Ad-imted normll,,et ratito -  rimor   chlOa,  - t,,tlrioaen of Oil agea ~s
specific fertility rates;                     ...LyfVnya   -pon,tgansdieg in 1980.  psecnt*&s of pri.asy snoniea-oa  papal.tIiot; iolae    aId-en aaed
1978 and 1973 far dssslnping enuotrias.                                            8-li years but *djuatsd far diffsrunt IsWhatt   of prbsarn aducatione;
Pasletss nrotkras      to-ta l-I  Coaplawd annua  presiti t e sat m1id-      fa oe nearIGa with osivesral -dcto,        etlslsy sensed 1001
year popuolatian far 1930-60. 1960-70 and 197 0-7s.                                Sinenn  ese puptIls are bslowao  Sansoe, nil ni1Lnia  Sahool aSo.
Psalsiansr,a~eas li  oran-    anpated iika growth rats of toatl          Adiosted enrs2 Isst ralti .- Saecndar aei-a    - Compsted as Sobos;
papasltia; d iffm.st definitions af ushar areas m.ay affect nanparan-             sscassd eyedsssi      raairn  St Is... tafur ysans of  pproond pel,anry
billt  af dots sMOasi caunters.                                                    isssiroaion; prawides gaersea, voasetiamal ur to-eehr treiairg
l.hqnnlicnta oa               i -  atio at a-hen to total papnslatinnl              latasaCtisen  fOr Popils Of 12 in If yeae- Of ag; eaor-peadangs
litf*   MM.fesnd iinttona  ft.rn sease mY .tfsgt cosparability af data             asrea e.generally       -eluded,
amoneg taountriss.                                                               ysr   (skai,       ewd4gfrtadoce               ses         Os    ears at
t.ftio    Xnraanl..   - Childrn. (0-14 yesrs), soarkieg-age (1.8yss,            shsln;a         eadOylvl          eaiaa      mtota        ay  epr
66Ucretired (5T yaoe and nosr) so poreantaa00of tatid-year populatime.             tially ar completsly aen laded.
dfCrft   - Ratio at papalatian under 15 send 65 and sOaer ts       rlntaa naln          t I 1 atsgnar;-beslua             institutions
ee  tae  5 thosagh hOn.                                                    stdethnil,sdstraor other pcraian                 wdhich aperste
a:!f._jll  - RanIa at population ander 1.5 Snd 85 sand owen         imdepenidently or as dapartas alao at anandse-  institttions.
is te   a      rS  Si  g   grouP of 15_88 yeAar.                                 A   .!.t:r6f              - LIterat  adult. (kis ta rmad and smile) as
iLl.alAnhlgggagnon   no  - Cunnlotiws maser at                            tal   adali population, &god IS years Sad moat.
planning psrgrmn sinta ineptian.                                                  -* o
~~~~~~~~~~n                         - Perasotaga* at mrrisd             h   M                   I- Aweregs slater of pereans pser rease in
lx  aof       d-uos birth-gantrel devices                                          sooapi*a esssninal dwellings in urban seas; dwellitags sneIds
ta all enrrisd sanan in Same age aesop.                                            no-enee       tnctrorisee and coasctpopid parts.
a eid dv,1D s wi 1k iYgogL(% - Omcoplsd sonoentinals&
delTssein~~iiii~i real6Iisittho.       La iide or outside piped
to"o  th.io,   Rtoanscitally soetiw  Pereang, inaladIeng          swatr fatilities AS Percentage at all acaupiad dwnllings.
a      amofste  an  unnyaysd1- thot sexluding housewios, astudodnts, eta. i       1e"d~xls                                    - Cmanwnionsi dwellings
dOtefInltsa  in variaus acoantriss ate net coiparable.                             miikni,aiti6ijiyP. fnl[O.fj'1,riee    ss percent of tstal dwellings On
Lar  re i  aeiol,,sI   ll-Agricultuare I labr fares (to farming,                urban send Ounse  Sagea.
L"kr,:Ma lh,   t og ted fI.hg    aso parcnenlag  of tstal labor fare.             goo se ~a       oeptd is eleottioltY CX) - Canputed as shuns far
parsens -ha ar abla an wiMing in take a jab, out et a Jab an a
gi,en day, resnamd sot f S jab, sod Snacking work Far a Specified
Mnimumb Pariad anot onesding one weekt -y nat be Comparable between                              iDrtkO        0) - All t"pS at reCeOers far radio brod-
countries due to differn"t deftini tion, at anooylayed and saores of               cnsts to general public per thoosmd of popolatian; smlodea
datae, a. a. , asplaymnt attices ateisti,,s,  sanPI. Survsys , eanpolsasy          oslitensed rsasiose  in countries Snd in Yese Wshon registratian, at
fmnla*npl7iant, imoananc.                                                          radin, sets Wee in effect1 data f or recent years ney not be noeosr-ble
Since oS"t couintries abolished licensing.
ff"   1141,'Z   -   oneestags of private manse (both is nah Send            aasne os(e ts            nl-Pssgr aare           aspoiss mutor noe
ad)  eten  by  iekot 51  riakest 201  p.osete   19, and panret              sentie  1ess thee aigttpersone; excludes ambqlanoes, hearses ead
801 of households.                                                                 nIslitary vehicles.
gleteair fwk.-e ne  Sro  - knma eameanptlu    of industia * a
Ote rbuionat sa asorhie-  stmnlgssatISMd awned by wnalthtmat            cesa,pt          anpiaaelantricity in kilowot ttahur. pat capita;
lOxandpoaastLo of Isa   ownore   a. ofgesrally based anI prodoatian data. wlithout a                                                  faenstelose  in
griLds bat allowing fsr Imparts and Saporta of neletricity.
NowarintIk,,:: jL:a - pert apita annual eanssaptin   in kilogrems,
I  i  r  a      Populaion divided by nanber af practicing               4e stlansdtr I      tiapradw ton pli       not istports at newprint.
phyaicians qualifisd feos a medical School at n ui-nity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
AREA                        POPULATION             1/                        DENSITY
65,607 sq km                13.8 million (mid-l976)                          210 per sq km (1976)
Rate of growth:   1.7 % (from 1971 to 1976)       554 per sq km of agricultural land (1974)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1974)                                    HEALTH (1970)
Crude birth rate (per 1,000):   27.3                                 Population per physician,   3,690
Crude death rate (per 1,000):    8.9                                 Population per hospital bed, 330
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births): 45
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1973)                                           DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% of national income, highest quintile, 45                           % owned by top 101/ of owners
lowest quintile,  13                           7. owned by smallest 107. of owners
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1971)                                         ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1971)
% of population - urban    77                                        % of dwellings   - total      9
- rural    5                                                         - rural    .  3
NUTRITION (1973)                                                     EDUCATION (1970)
Calorie intake as % of requirements: close to 100                    Adult literacy rate,   78%
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):   45                      Primary school enrollment,   897.
2/
GNP PER CAPITA in 1975:   US $150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%,constant prices)
US$ Mn.        %                        1960 -65          1965 -70           1970-75
GNP at Market Prices           3,367       100.0                         3.9               5.0              2.8
Gross Domestic Investment        525        15.6                      - 2.0               14.1           _  1.0
Gross National Saving            354        10.5                      -  1.2              13.2              8.5
Current Account Balance        - 186       - 5.5
Exports of Goods, NFS            628        18.7                         2.3               0.8              0.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            799        23.7                      - 4.3              - 2.0          -   7.5
OUTPUT. EMPLOYMENT, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                  Employment                      V. A. Per Worker
US$     Mn.                                 % Mn                             I
Agriculture                   1,226       39.2                 1.829    54.9                  670          71
Industry  3/                    507       16.2                0.367     11.0                1,381         147
Services                      1,398       44.6                 1.136    34.1                1,231         131
Unallocated
Total/Average          3,131      100.0                 3.332   100.0                  940         100.0
GOVERNNENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs.   Mnh)        % Of ODP
1976       197-7-_       1976
Current Receipts                                                                   4,859          21.0       17.8
Current Expenditure                                                                5,333          23.1       19.6
Current Surplus                                                                   -4/4          -QTT       -'1TB
Capital Expenditures                                                               1,988           6.4        7.1
External Assistance (net)                                                          1.065           2.7        3.9
1/ Provisional estimates.
2/ The per capita GNP estimate is calculated by the same conversion technique as the 1975 World Atlas. All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
3/ Includes mining.
4/ The sectoral distribution was assumed to 'be the same as for 1971.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LAtlKA
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1970         1971       1972        1973        1974        1975
Tf4llion Rs. outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                    3,061       3,379       3,917       4,093       4,504       4 712
Bank Credit to Public Sector             2,571       2,724       2,900       2,679       2,532       2,828
Bank Credit to Private Sector            1,617       1,760       2,186       2,164       3,235       3,403
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         26.0         28.3       30.5        27.1        21.0        19.7
General Price Index (1963 = 100)         127.0        130.4       138.6      152.0       170.7       182.3
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        5.9          2.6        6.3         9.6        12.3         6.8
Bank credit to Public Sector               9.6         6.0         6.5         7.6       - 5.5        11.6
Bank credit to Private Sector             10.0         8.8        24.3       - 1.0        49.6      - 14.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERClANDISE EXPORTS 1976
1974     1975     19761'                                          US $ Mn.     Y
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS          572     628      629            Tea                              249        44.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          735     799      657            Rubber                           106        18.9
Resource Gap (deficit = _)    -163    -171      -28            Coconut Products                  44         7.9
Interest Payments (net)       -16      -15      -18            All Other Commodities            161        28.7
"orl ers' remittances           -        -        -                          Total              560       100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers
Balance on Current Account    -179    -186      4-6
Direct Foreign Investment        1       -        -            EXTERNAL DEBT (US $ Millions)
Net MLT Borrowing               44       87      78                                 December 1974  December 1975
Disbursements               (70)    (126)    (112)                                              (provisional)
Amortization                (26)    ( 39)    ( 34)          Tctal Outstanding       867.8          997.4
Subtotal                     45       87       78
Capital Grants                  42       77      49            Total Outstanding
Other Capital (net)            101       21      -15             and Disbursed         579.4          600.7
Other items n.e.i.              -1       -3        -
Increase in Reserves (+) i/    +8       -4      +iT-66         DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-/           20.3Y
Gross Reserves (end year)       78       58       92
Net Reserves   (end year)      -80      -84      -18
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1976 (Million US$):
1967 - 1971        Foreign Exchange Entitlement                                                IBRD      IDA
US$1.00 = Rs 5.93  Certificate (FEEC) Rates
Rs 1.00 = US$0.17                                              Outstanding & Disbursed         36.0      43.6
End 1972      1968      US$1.00 = Rs 8.54 (44/. FEEC)    Undisbursed                      7.8      36.9
End 1972           1969 to                                     Outstanding including
US$1.00 = Rs 6.70   1971     US$1.00 - Rs 9.22 (55% FEEC)         Undisbursed                  43.8      80.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.15  1972(end) US$1.00 - Rs 9.92 (55% FEEC)
End 1973           1973(end) US$1.00 - Rsll.12 (65Z FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 6.75  1974(end) US$1.00 = Rsll.04 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15  1975(end) US$1.00 = Rsl2.72 (65% FEEC)
End 1974           1976(end) US$1.00= Rsl4.57 (65% FEEC)
End 1974  ~   1977 (end-
US$10O0 = R. 6.69   Harch)   US$1.00 = Rsl2.01 (65% FEEC)
Es 1.00 = US$0.15
End 1975
US$1.00 - Rs 7.71
Rs 1.00 = US$0.13
End 1976
US$1.00 = Rs 8.83
Rs 8.83 = Us$0.11
End March 1977
US$1.00 - Rs 7.28
Rs 1.00 = US$0.14
1/ Preliminary estimate as of mid-February 1977.
2/ Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
3/ Includes errors and omissions.
4/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
South Asia Programs Department
March 21, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan or                                             Amount (net of cancellations
Credit                                               and exchange adjustments)
Number    Year      Borrower          Purpose       Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
Six loans and three credits fully disbursed         42.4      30.1
121       1968      Sri Lanka        Irrigation                2.0          0.3
636        1969     Ceylon           Power          16.5                    1.2
Electricity
Board
168       1969      Sri Lanka        Land                      2.5          0.4
Reclamation
653        1970     Sri Lanka         Irrigation/   14.5                    5.5
Power
372        1973     Sri Lanka         Power Transm.            6.0          0.8
504        1974     Sri Lanka        Dairy                     9.0          8.1
Development
566        1975     Development       Industrial               4.5          2.1
Finance Corp.    Finance
of Ceylon
595        1976     Sri Lanka        Agricultural             25.0         21.3
Development
666        1976     Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation          5.0          5.0
1977     Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development II          19.0          19.0
Total,                                            73.4     103.1         63.7
of which has been repaid                         30.4      -
Total now outstanding                             43.0     103.1
Amount sold,                           3.6
of which has been repaid              3.6         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    43.0     103.1
Total undisbursed                                  6.7      57.0         63.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1977).
None.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 121 - Lift Irrigation Project; US$2 million of June 19, 1968;
Effective Date: August 5, 1968; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1973, Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Construction is about two-and-a-half years behind the appraisal
schedule, but most problems causing the delay - government change, reorgani-
zation, insurrection in 1971, strikes in 1972 and inadequate repair facil-
ities - have been solved since 1973 and little further slippage is expected.
Total costs have risen due to inflation by US$1 million over the appraisal's
estimate of US$3.3 million; the additional cost is being met from local
sources. The project remains viable because prices of main output (onions
and chillies) have risen three to four times the values used for appraisal.
The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the Revised Closing Date.
Ln. No. 636 - Maskeliya Oya Power Project; US$16.5 million of July 28, 1969;
Effective Date:   January 19, 1970; Original Closing Date:
September 30, 1973, Revised Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is virtually completed. The first unit of 50 MW was
commissioned in February 1974, about 1-1/2 years later than originally esti-
mated. The second unit was commissioned in July 1974. The gas turbine unit
was cancelled upon the request of the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB). Delays
were caused mainly by problems associated with the appointment of acceptable
consultants, landslides in the penstock area and various strikes in manufac-
turers' factories. Site work has in general been carried out satisfactorily.
The only remaining work, the extension of the Polpitiya switching station, is
expected to be completed by June 1977. The closing date of the loan has been
extended to December 31, 1977 to allow for completion of the Polpitiya switch-
ing station, and due to delays in manufacture and delivery of equipment. For-
eign exchange savings of about US$1.9 million are to be used to cover the cost
overrun on the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Credit 372),
discussed below.
Cr. No. 168 - Land Reclamation and Drainage Project; US$2.5 million of
November 13, 1969; Effective Date: February 12, 1970;
Original Closing Date: December 31, 1974; Revised Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Construction is about two-and-a-half years behind schedule (for
the same reasons as under Credit 121 above), but all necessary equipment is
now on order and no further delays are anticipated. Overall project costs
have increased due to inflation by 30% above the appraisal estimate; the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
cost overruns are being met by Government. The project remains viable
because the price of the main output '(paddy) has increased by over 100%
since appraisal. The project is expected to be fully disbursed by the
Revised Closing Date.
Ln. No. 653 - Mahaweli Ganga Development (Irrigation/Power) Project;
US$14.5 million of January 30, 1970; Effective Date:
April 30, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976; Revised
Closing Date: July 31, 1978
The project, now nearly complete, is nearly two years behind
appraisal target. Delays were due mainly to foundation problems at Polgolla
power house and a slow start at Bowatenna diversion dam. After overcoming
these problems, the construction progressed satisfactorily. Water was
diverted at Polgolla in January, and at Bowatenna in March 1976. The power
plant is in its final stages of testing; the Bowatenna and Elehara (diver-
sion and new canal intake) structures are almost completed. Good progress
has been recorded to date on agricultural extension and research in the
project area. Total project costs increased by about 12% over the appraisal
estimates largely as a result of rising costs for electromechanical equipment.
However, the economic viability of the project was not adversely affected by
the cost overruns-since produce prices have increased by 100% since appraisal.
The Credit (174-CE) associated with this project has been fully disbursed.
The closing date of the Loan has been extended to July 31, 1978 to permit
final disbursements, including one year for disbursing retention payments.
Cr. No. 372 - Power Transmission and Distribution Project; US$6.0 million
of April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 5, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976; Revised Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is proceeding without major problems, and procurement
is practically completed. Inflation since signing has increased foreign ex-
change costs by some 30% and we have agreed to cover the cost overruns from
savings under Loan 636-CE above.
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress of implementation is satisfactory. The Project Technical
Unit has been established, its key staff appointed and field staff trained.
Construction of the calf rearing unit and the importation of the first ship-
ment of 860 cattle have been completed. Farmer response to the project is
most encouraging; about 800 loan applications have been approved by the
participating banks. Although disbursements are behind schedule, largely
due to delay in credit effectiveness, the Project is making good progress
and is likely to be fully committed by late 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 566 - Third Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$4.5 million of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:
August 22, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The Credit was designed to meet the estimated foreign exchange
requirements of the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) over
the life of the project for lending mainly to export industries and tourism.
The implementation of the Project is progressing satisfactorily and there
are no major issues. The Credit is likely to be completed and fully dis-
bursed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 595 - Agricultural Development Project; US$25.0 million of
December 24, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Credit will help meet capital and technical assistance require-
ments in the agricultural sector. Disbursements are behind schedule because
of delays in finalizing complementary UNDP projects, delays by the Government
in appointing key consultants, and inadequacies in local overall project coor-
dination. The irrigation and sugar production components are now progressing
satisfactorily. Orders for the importation of the first lot of machinery for
the Ministry of Irrigation, Power, and Highways have been placed and tender
documents for the remainder of these two components are being finalized.
Agreement has been reached on modified UNDP complementary projects and final
approval by UNDP and FAO (Executing Agency) has been obtained. The Govern-
ment has appointed the key consultants for the tree crop incentive study and
all conditions for credit disbursement have now been satisfied. Review mis-
sions in June/July and September of 1976 assisted the Government in improving
the overall coordination of the Project.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Revised
Effective Date: April 12, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The inter-ministerial Project Coordinating Committee has been
established and is meeting regularly, and working committees at the district
and tank levels are being formed. The Chief Project Engineer has been ap-
pointed and has assumed his duties. Procurement is in process for the equip-
ment and vehicles to be financed by both IDA and the UK which is providing
US$6.0 million equivalent in co-financing.
Cr. No.     - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of April 21, 1977; Effective Date (planned): August 5, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This credit which is to be presented to the Board on April 21,
1977 will help finance a project for the construction of irrigation works
and settlement facilities, agricultural production support and social
infrastructure for about 106,000 ac located in the north-central dry zone
of Sri Lanka. Co-financing arrangements have been made with Canada, The
Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States.



AIJNEX III
Page 1
SRI LAN4KA - WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUtffARPY
Borrower:             Government of Sri Lanka
Beneficiary:          National Water Supply and l)rainage lBoard (WDB)
Amount:                (a)  IDA Credit of US$9.2 million
(b) IDA Adrmiinistered Credit of Can$5.0 million
(US$4.8 million)
Terms:                 (a)  Standard IDA terms
(b) Standard IDA terms
Relending Termis:     The Government of Sri Lanka would relend the pro-
ceeds of the credits to iDB at 9% interest per
annum for 24 years, including 5 years' grace on
the payment of principal interest.
Project
Description:        The project provides improvements in the existing
water supply system serving Colombo Mlunicipality
and Towns South. It also provides for extension
of this system to Towns North, which at present
have no piped water. INew water supply systems
would be provided for the more remote towns of
Kalutara, Ambalangoda and adjacent communities
which at present also have no piped water.
The project includes the following items:
(a) Colombo and Adjacent Towns
Expansion of the Ii jied water pumping station
at Ambatale to deliver water to Colombo, Towns
South and, ultimately, Towns North.
Improvement of the water transmission system
between Ambatale and existing distribution
reservoirs in Colombo and Towns South, and
improvement of distribution in these towns.
Construction of new transmission and distri-
bution systems for Towns North.



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) Ambalangoda, Kalutara and Adjacent Communities
Construction of a complete water supply system
(river intake, treatment and pumping plants,
transmission and distribution systems) for
each of the two towns and adjacent communities.
(c) Other Items
Installation of meters on all consumers' con-
nections in new water supply areas (Towns
North, Ambalangoda and Kalutara).
Installation of meters on consumers' connections
in Colombo and Towns South as part of a program
designed to meter all connections by 1986.
Provision of spare parts and equipment, of for-
eign origin, required for repair/replacement of
defective items mainly associated with pumping,
treatment or bulk measurement of water.
Provision of consulting services for a water
tariff study and for the design of a further
package of works comprising the improvement of
urban sewerage facilities.
Training of WDB personnel in water treatment
plant operation and management and in techniques
to reduce leakage in distribution systems; train-
ing in accounting and financial management.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign       Total
---------US$ Million--------
1.  Works at Ambatale       0.7        1.5         2.2
2.  Towns North             3.8        2.6         6.4
3.  Towns South             1.0        1.0         2.0
4.  Colombo                 1.2        1.0         2.2
5.  Kalutara                3.1        2.8         5.9
6.  Ambalangoda             0.7        0.9         1.6
7.  Spare Parts and
Appliances            0.2       0.5          0.7
8.  Other Costs
Technical Assist-
ance & Training       0.5        1.4         1.9
Engineering
Services              1.0        -           1.0
Land Acquisition        0.1         -          0.1
Sub-total
Other Costs           1.6        1.4         3.0
Base Cost Estimate         12.3       11.7        24.0
Physical Contingencies      2.0        1.2         3.2
Price Contingencies         2.1        1.1         3.2
Sub-total                 16.4       14.0        30.4
Total Project Cost
(Including FEECs
and Customs Duty)          28.5       14.0        42.5
Financing Plan:                                          US$ Millions
IDA Credit                             9.2
IDA Administered Credit                4.8
Government Grant and Loans            28.5
42.5
Estimated                                          (US$ Million)
Disbursements:                        Annual                 Cumulative
Fiscal          IDA Admin-               IDA Admin-
Year     IDA    istered   Total    IDA   istered   Total
1978     2.2       1.2      3.4     2.2      1.2     3.4
1979     5.1       2.6      7.7     7.3      3.8    11.1
1980     1.4        .8      2.2    8.7       4.6    13.3
1981      .4        .2       .6    9.1       4.8    13.9
1982      .1         *       .1    9.2       4.8    14.0
*less than .1 million



ANNEX III
Page 4
Procurement
Arrangements:        All contracts would be awarded under international
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with
the Association's Guidelines, with the exception
of contracts under US$100,000 and totalling not more
than US$0.5 million, which would not justify the more
complex procedures of international competitive bid-
ding, and would not attract foreign bidders. Such
contracts would be awarded under local bidding pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association. Foreign
bidders are expected to win all contracts for treat-
ment plant equipment, pumping equipment, specialized
work of mains renovation and for a large portion of
the pipes. Sri Lankan contractors are expected to
win all other contracts. It is probable that PVC
or cast-iron pipes that are manufactured in Sri Lanka
will be appropriate for some distribution mains; a
15% margin of preference (or applicable tariffs,
whichever is less) would be allowed for these, and
any other locally-manufactured items, in evaluating
bids. Similarly, a margin of preference of 7.5%
would be allowed for local civil works contractors.
Technical
Assistance:          1.   To update parts of previous urban sewerage
studies, prepare detailed engineering designs
and bid documents for a further works program.
2.   To study water tariffs within the project area
and to recommend suitable tariff structures.
3.   The estimated duration and cost of this technical
assistance in the project area is 162 man-months
at US$5,000 to US$8,000 per man-month.
Rate of Return:        A meaningful economic rate of return cannot be calculated.
Appraisal Report:      No. 1424-CE



ANNEX IV
Page 1
SRI LANKA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project
The project was identified and prepared as a component
of the UNDP/WHO Master Plan studies for water supply
and sewerage services to the southwest coastal area
completed in 1972. Engineering design of the project
was updated in 1975/76.
(b) Agency preparing the project
The project was initially prepared by WHO as executor
of a UNDP project. The preparation was subsequently
updated by the Government of Sri Lanka with IDA assist-
ance.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date of
first Bank mission to consider the project
22 October 1975, first presentation to the Bank;
December 1975, first (preparation) mission.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1976, appraisal mission.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 23, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 3, 1977 (expected)
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
To expedite procurement under the project, final engineering
designs together with associated tender documents have been
prepared by the project authority and reviewed by Bank staff.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section III(a) - Special Conditions of the IDA Credit
(1) As a condition of effectiveness an acceptable sub-
sidiary loan agreement must be executed between the
Government of Sri Lanka and the WDB (paras 46, 58).
(2) Other conditions of effectiveness are the effective-
ness of the IDA administered credit and the execu-
tion of the Project Document on behalf of WDB
(para 58).
(3) Consultants will be engaged to update studies and
complete final design of sewerage and drainage
improvements in selected areas (para 36).
(4) Government will ensure the availability to WDB of
a sufficient number of qualified and experienced
engineers, or alternatively, engage local consult-
ants, to carry out the construction supervision for
the project (para 39).
(5) A separate unit will be established within WDB to
implement the project (para 39).
(6) WDB will take certain actions to strengthen its
financial operations (para 39).
(7) WDB will establish a leakage detection unit, monitor
standards of operation and maintenance of water dis-
tribution systems in the project area, and assume
responsibility for those falling below acceptable
standards (para 40).
(8) Government will require adequate measures to be
taken to reduce waste of water, including metering,
and will cause WDB to establish and maintain meter
testing and repair facilities in the project area
(para 41).
(9) There will be a limitation to WDB incurring long-
term debt (para 42).
(10) Tariffs in the project area will be increased by
WDB not later than October 1, 1977, and thereafter
maintained to produce agreed rates of return.
Revenues from operations outside the project area
will be such that those operations are not sub-
sidized from the project area (para 42).



ANNEX IV
Page 3
(11)  The Government will ensure payment of future bills
rendered by WDB for water supplied to the local
authorities (para 42) and will cause the local
authorities to maintain separate accounts for its
water supply operations and to ensure the prompt
payment of all consumers' water bills (para 43).
(12)  Government will cause local authorities to maintain
revenues sufficient to cover cash operating expenses
and debt service (para 43).
(13)  A tariff study for the project area will be completed
by March 31, 1978, after which the recommendations as
agreed with IDA will be implemented (para 43).
(14)  Where appropriate, Government will assure recovery of
principal and interest from local authorities on loans
incurred by WDB for the construction of assets in the
project area (para 43).
(15)  An agency independent of WDB and other water distribution
authorities will be established to implement a system of
routine examination of water quality (para 44).
(16)  Government will make loans to WDB to assist in carrying
out the distribution works under agreed terms, and pro-
vide equity contributions toward the cost of headworks
(para 46).
(17)  Government subsidies for water will not exceed the cost
of standpipe water supply (para 55).
Section III(b) - Special Conditions of the IDA Administered Credit
(1)  A special condition of effectiveness of the IDA administered
credit would be the effectiveness of the IDA credit (paras
45 and 58).






oSB0- 00'                 The bn,ndar,es shoswn on this map dri ns  80-              82-
Q10                           tiipli' enrdigeni rseetl aceptane by the JONDI A  BAY OF BENGAL  i
Nego.b* ->        t<                                                                        S  t 
\\N.gorniSo  )                                                              G0nf                  Trinmonalee
of
COLOMBO
Helio9dc FI ^0                                                               INCrlAN  /0 e.
Peh.9od    .         .R                             _6 CHUCH IESEROI Gall,.                  ......... Ha.bontoto  6
co1                                                LATKlUWAWA _8-3
l t76X  ote-GtIkisso    4<
DehlwrJla %~M                                                            SB SRI LAINKA
Mount Lavin  tAtdy                                L ABUGA              WATER      SUPPlY    PROJECT
/AX   \                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Expansion or
Moratu , a                                                           renovBtion New under
~~~~~~~~ | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing            unider  project
5 j)QKrJhelwatto   >K-  _   Mains
aa   \a     l     I                    *                              A   Headworks / treotment pltnfs
wPanaduraX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                             0    Pumping stations
_ .-- \   /  /                     *       *        *~~~~~~~~~~~0  Reservoirs
\y>g.g  \  J   I                                                 OCEAN   W ater towers
COLKaImaaa(E ci    t 
did,                                  Imp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~reovation e
/  skd  X           \                     Existing  under  New under
project prjc
o                0Jl.....ra1>yt   ......   i 3  Water supply arer s
---------- Township boundaries
---U      NDP boundaries
6-30'
6-30'
n dia n
0c e a ns 
0      5     10    Is     20     25f
KILOMETERS 
a                    ix        is
Mi [ES                                                                                               w t
6'00'
0o5o1                                                                   80I30 



