CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 709-5 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Water Supply Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator on behalf of
The Government of Canada
Dated June 30, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1977, between the Republic of
Sri Lanka (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, as Administrator, on behalf of the
Government of Canada (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the assistance of
the International Development Association and of the Government
of Canada in the financing of a project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the International Development Association
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit Agreement);
(B) the Project will be carried out by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board (hereinafter referred to as WDB) with
the Borrower's assistance;
(C) the International Development Association is prepared
to grant for this purpose a development credit out of its own
resources (hereinafter called the IDA Credit) on the terms and
conditions set forth in said IDA Credit Agreement, and the
Government of Canada has authorized the International Development
Association, as Administrator, on behalf of the Government of
Canada, to grant for the same purpose a development credit out
of the Canadian Government development aid funds on the terms
and conditions hereafter set forth and set forth in the Project


﻿-2-
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Project Agreement) of
even date herewith between WDB, the International Development
Association and the International Development Association as
Administrator, on behalf of the Government of Canada; and
(D) the Borrower acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Borrower under this Development Credit Agreement
shall be considered as part of the bi-lateral development aid
extended by the Government of Canada to the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated Maich 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as Administrator of Canadian Government development aid
funds pursuant to the Agreement, dated
between the Government of Canada and the International Development
Association;
(b) Sections 2.01 (9), 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 are deleted;
and
(c) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
include also the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, the amount of five million Canadian
dollars (Canadian $5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account pro rata to the withdrawals by the
Borrower of the proceeds of the IDA Credit, in the ratio of
Can$5 of the Credit hereunder to US$9.2 of the IDA Credit and
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the IDA Credit
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement among the parties, for expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in
the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit have been paid or are payable
or, at the option of the Association, in Canadian dollars.
(c) If a withdrawal shall be made in a currency which
the Association shall have purchased with Canadian dollars for
the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the Credit so


﻿-5-
withdrawn shall be deemed to have been withdrawn in Canadian
dollars for the purposes of Section 2.08 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1987, and ending January 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of


﻿-6-
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the service
charges thereon in Canadian dollars.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of WDB is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action in respect of the proceeds of the Credit relent to WDB
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. Articles III, IV and V of the IDA Credit
Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it
being understood that all references in such Articles III, IV and
V to the "Association" shall be deemed to be references to the
Association acting as Administrator on behalf of the Government of
Canada under this Agreement and all references to the "Credit"
shall be deemed to be references to the Credit hereunder.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Representation
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all
conditions to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement, other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 4.02. The date September 29, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section
7.01 of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of
the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Agreement, dated
April 22, 1977, between the Government of Canada and the
International Development Association, the rights and obliga-
tions of the Association under this Agreement may be transferred
to the Government of Canada, or one of its agencies designated by
it. The Borrower accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the
Association to the Borrower to that effect, the Government of
Canada (or the agency designated by it) shall ipso facto, from
the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights
and obligations of the Association under this Agreement as if the
Government of Canada or such agency had been an original party to
this Agreement, without any further action or formality required
on the part of any party, and from such date the International
Development Association shall cease to have any rights or obliga-
tions as a party under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By Is/ Neville Kanakaratne
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of
THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


