                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 3 1753




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                                     PROPOSEDCREDIT

                         INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR45.5 MILLION
                             (US$65.9 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                           SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                             FORA

                          CUSTOMS MODERNIZATION PROJECT

                                        October 17,2005


Poverty ReductionandEconomic ManagementUnit
East Asia and Pacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective September30,2005)
                         Currency Unit = Dong (D)
                                US1.00 = D15,905
                                D1,OOO = US$0.063

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1   - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB    Asian Development Bank
AFTA   ASEANFree Trade Area
ASEAN   Association of SouthEast Asian Nations
ASYCUDA Automated Systemfor Customs Data
BTA     Bilateral Trade Agreement
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBM     Customs Business Model
CBPR    Customs Business ProcessRedesign
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CMS     Customs Management System
CMSC    Customs Modernization Steering Committee
CPRGS   Comprehensive Poverty Reduction andGrowth Strategy
DS      Diagnostic Study
EU      EuropeanUnion
FMR     Financial MonitoringReport
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GATT    General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDVC    General Departmentof Vietnam Customs
GDT     General Department of Taxation
GMS     Greater Mekong Sub-Region
GoV     Government of Vietnam
GSO     General Statistical Office
HRM     HumanResource Management
HS      Harmonized Systems
ICT     Information and communications technology
IDA     International Development Association
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
JICA    Japan International Corporation Agency
M&E     Monitoring andEvaluation
MOF     Ministryof Finance
MOT     Ministryof Trade
MPI     Ministryof Planning and Investment
MPT     Ministryof Post and Telematics

                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




  NA        National Assembly
  NPV       Net PresentValue
  OECD      Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development
  PAD       Project Appraisal Document
  PAR       Public Administration Reform
  PHRD      Policy and HumanResource Development
  PIP       Project Implementation Plan
  PPU       Project PreparationUnit
  PMU       Project ManagementUnit
  PRSC      Poverty Reduction Support Credit
  QBS       Quality-based selection
  QCBS       Quality- and cost-basedselection
  SA         Special Account
  SAD        Single Administrative Document
  SBD        Standardbidding document
  SBV        State Bank of Vietnam
  SIL        Specific Investment Loan
  SMEs       Small andmedium-sized enterprises
  TA         Technical assistance
  TIN        Tax IdentificationNumber
  TIPV       Total Investment Point of View
  UNDP       UnitedNations Development Program
  USAID      UnitedStates Agency for International Development
  VAT        Value Added Tax
  VCCI       VietnamChamber of Commerce andIndustry
  VCMP       Vietnam Customs ModernizationProject
  wco        World Customs Organization
  WTO        World Trade Organization


                             Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                           Country Director:     Klaus Rohland
                             Sector Director:    HomiKharas
                         Task Team Leader:       Duc MinhPham




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                          VIETNAM
                                        Customs ModernizationProject

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                           .................................................................  1
 1.  Country and Sector Issues...................................................................................................                1
 2.  Rationale for Bank Involvement.........................................................................................                     2
 3 . Higher Level Objectives to Whichthe Project Contributes................................................                                     3

B
.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      .................................................................................................   3
 1. Lending Instrument................................................................................................................           3
 2.  Project Development Objective and Key Indicators...........................................................                                 3
 3.  Project Components............................................................................................................              4
 4.  Lessons Learned and Reflected inthe Project Design........................................................                                  6
 5.  Alternatives Considered and Reasonsfor Rejection...........................................................                                 9

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ..........................................................................................................    9
  1. Institutionaland Implementation Arrangements ................................................................                                9
 2.  Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
           . . .                                                                                                                                 10
 3.  Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects ...........................................................                               11
 4.  Credit Conditions and Covenants .....................................................................................                       13

D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                      .................................................................................................     13
  1. Economic and Financial Analyses ....................................................................................                        13
 2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................        14
 3 . Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................       15
 4.  Social.................................................................................................................................     15
 5.  Environment......................................................................................................................           16
 6.  SafeguardPolicies.............................................................................................................              16
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                       16

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background                 ..............................................................................        17

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background                 ..............................................................................        17

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                   .................21
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................       25

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          ......................................................................................        30

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        40

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................       41

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                            ....................................   42

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements               .....................................................................................         46

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                  .............................................................................        51

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................         58

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                      .....................................................................       59

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File               .................................................................................        61

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ..............................................................................        62

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................         64

Annex 15: M a p IBRD33511     ......................................................................................................          66

                                                 VIETNAM
                                        Customs ModernizationProject

                                       ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                         East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                    EASPR

 Date: October 14, 2005                               Team Leader: Duc MinhPham
 CountryDirector: Klaus Rohland                       Sector(s): General public administration sector (100%)
 Sector Director: Homi Kharas                         Theme(s): Trade facilitation and market access (P)
 ProjectID: PO85071                                   Environmentalscreeningcategory: Not Required
 LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan           Safeguard screening category: N o impact

                                             ProjectFinancingData
 [ ] Loan    [XI Credit    [ 3 Grant     [ 3 Guarantee         [ ] Other:
 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing(US$m.): 65.90




                                                                      epartment o f Vietnam Customs


LFY              2005       2006  Estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
                                       2007       2008       2009       2010      2011
 Annual            0.00       3.90      17.00     27.00      15.00        2.50      0.50
 Cumulative        0.00       3.90      20.90     47.90      62.90      65.40     65.90




 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                    i]Yes    [ x j ~ o
 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"? Re$ PAD C.5          [XIYes [ ] N o
 Doesthe project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?Re$ PAD D.7         [XIYes [ ] N o
 Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

 The Project Development Objective is to facilitate trade and increase revenue collection, improve the
 production o f foreign trade statistics, and enhance community protection and national security by improving

the effectiveness, efficiency, accountability and transparency o f the Customs Administration. In addition, the
project would be a key factor in facilitating Vietnam's accession to the WTO and securing the gains from
greater integration into the world trading system.


The project is expected to meet these objectives by: (i)introducing modern Customs systems and procedures
based on internationally agreed standards and best practice; (ii)improving the organizational structure and
strengthening the human, financial and physical resource capacity o f the GDVC; and (iii)introducing
appropriate information and communication technology to improve effectiveness, increase transparency and
lower transaction costs. The project builds upon the on-going efforts o f other donors, and will seek to
reinforce their inputs.

Project description Ref: PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4

The project will provide consulting services, training, technical assistance and appropriate infrastructure to
support three key operational components, and one support component. Component one deals with the core
technical systems, and procedural aspects o f the reform program.             Component two deals with the
organizational and resource management improvements necessary to underpin the new systems. Component
three provides the information and communication technology (ICT) support to achieve world class standards
o f performance in Customs administration. Component four provides the technical and managerial support
required to achieve effective implementation and long term sustainability o f project objectives.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Ref: PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10            None
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Ref: PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:None
Credit effectiveness:
The Borrower will establish the P M U and appoint a Project director, a Project coordinator, and specialists in,
respectively, procurement, financial management, I C T and Customs/business processes, each in a manner
acceptable to the Association, and

The Borrower will adopt a financial management manual acceptable to the Association.

Covenantsapplicableto projectimplementation:

 1. By September 30, 2006, MOF shall complete the review o f current Customs business procedures and
documentation and develop an action plan for the harmonization and simplification o f said procedures and
documentation in line with the provisions o f the Revised Kyoto Convention on the Harmonization and
Simplification o f Customs Procedures, provide such action plan to the Association, and thereafter implemenl
said plan.

2. By September 30, 2006, to serve as a basis for risk management in Customs operations, MOF shall
develop a compliance and risk management implementation plan, including therein a risk register togethe1
with a series of risk profiles, and a national post-clearance audit plan; provide said plan to the Association foi
review and comments; and implement said plan.

3. By May 3 1, 2006, in order to carry out its compliance and risk management implementation plan, MOF
 shall establish a risk management unit, under the direction o f qualified managers, staffed with competent anc
experienced personnel in sufficient numbers, and provided with sufficient resources.

4. By December 15, 2006, MOF shall complete a comprehensive assessment o f the current organizationa
 structure o f GDVC, with a view to rationalize such structure and to reflect new priorities and responsibilities

of GDVC; and on the basis o f said assessment, develop an organizational re-structuring action plan for
GDVC; provide said plan to the Association for its review and comments; and implement said plan.

5. By November 1, 2006, MOF shall develop a human resources strategic plan and complete a detailed
staffing requirements assessment under terms o f reference acceptable to the Association; provide said
strategic plan and the report o f the staffing requirement assessment to the Association for its prompt review
and comment; and thereafter, implement said strategic plan.

6. By December 15, 2006, MOF shall establish a change management unit, staffed with competent managers
and personnel in sufficient numbers and provided with adequate resources; said Unit to be responsible for
planning, sequencing and implementingactivities for the reform and modernization of GDVC.

7. By June 30, 2007, MOF shall prepare a draft comprehensive integrity and anti-corruption program in
Customs services, taking into consideration the provisions of the Revised Arusha Declaration on Integrity in
Customs by the World Customs Organization, and provide said draft program to the Association for its
prompt review and comments.

8. By September 30,2006, M O F shall prepare a detailed national training plan for Customs officers and staff;
provide said plan to the Association for its review and comments; and carry out said plan.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and Sector Issues

Inrecent years, Vietnam has made steady progress on a wide-ranging reform program based on
its Comprehensive Poverty Reductionand Growth Strategy (CPRGS). The CPRGS, approved in
2002, rests on three main pillars: completing the transition to a market economy, socially
equitable and environmentally sustainable development, and building modern governance.
Completing the transition to a market economy i s closely linked to Vietnam's integration with
the world economy and entails significant trade liberalization and, by definition, a much greater
role for the private sector in economic activity. Over the last ten years, GDP has grown at more
than 7% per year on average, and the poverty rate has halved. Exports have been a key driver o f
growth, rising by over 25% per annum over the last ten years. Vietnam has made considerable
progress in the implementation o f its commitments under the ASEAN Free Trade Area and the
Vietnam-US Bilateral Trade Agreement (BTA). More recently, the Government has announced
its strong commitment to accede to the World Trade Organization (WTO) "as soon as possible".


The reform agenda is strongly owned by the Government and widely supported by the donor
community.      At the strategic level, the direction o f reforms is being locked-in through
international commitments.       Meeting the requirements for WTO accession has provided
additional impetus to the pace o f reform, especially for items such as wide-ranging legal
changes. And the CPRGS approach i s being sustained by incorporating its principles into
Vietnam's next five year Socio-Economic Development Plan (2006-10).                Translating the
strategic reforms into on-the-ground results will be a key challenge, especially as international
integration intensifies.  Progress on this front would be greatly facilitated by improving the
quality o f public administration and sector-level interventions aimed at strengthening
governance. This i s particularly important as Vietnam seeks to attract greater private investment,
both domestic and foreign. A modern and efficient Customs administration will be an integral
partofthis process.

Recognizing the importance o f improving the quality o f public administration and governance,
the Government o f Vietnam, in September 2001, announced a Master Plan for Public
Administration Reform (PAR), o f which Customs reform i s a key component. Around the same
time, the Customs Law was passed by the National Assembly PA). This was followed by the
issuance o f sub-legislation and instructions dealing with the organizational structure o f the
General Department o f Vietnam Customs (GDVC), the classification o f import and export
goods, and Customs valuation. Most recently, the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) has approved the
 Strategic Plan for Customs Reform and Modernization for 2004-2006.

A well-performing and ethical Customs administration makes a major contribution to revenue
mobilization, assists governments to facilitate trade and investment, and increases confidence in
the quality and integrity of govemment institutions. Experience in many countries has shown
that Customs are uniquely positioned to co-ordinate, consolidate and simplify border-related
regulatory formalities on behalf o f all government stakeholders.         A streamlined, effective
 Customs administration also provides timely and accurate foreign trade statistics, and helps
protect society from transnational crimes such as counterfeiting, smuggling or narcotics


                                                  1

trafficking. Striking an appropriate balance between these apparently competing demands is the
key challenge facing all Customs and border management agencies today.

While considerable reform measures have been undertaken recently, Vietnamese Customs are
still considered slow, unresponsive, inconsistent and vulnerable to corruption.      A long-term
vision with clear strategic goals i s lacking. Such a vision needs to be developed along with
enabling instruments for its implementation. The Customs administration will need to change
significantly, shifting its mindset from a culture o f domestic protection and control o f all
transactions, aggravated by an over-reliance on bureaucratic systems and procedures, to one that
facilitates foreign trade and promotes private sector development. In addition, national security
has become a major priority for Customs. However, increasing confidence in the security o f
imports and exports needs to be achieved without thwarting trade facilitation objectives.

2. Rationale for Bank Involvement

Recent economic reforms have seen Vietnam's foreign trade growing at a rapid 20% per year on
average over the past decade. As in other transition economies, this implies that state-controlled
foreign trade i s rapidly being replaced with diversified imports by a large number o f private
firms. This generates a considerable increase in transactions and associated frauds. However,
Customs have maintained to a large extent their former organization, responsibilities and
procedures.     The Customs administration faces new responsibilities and complexities due to
much greater international economic integration, notably increased security concerns.        This
presents a need and an opportunity for Vietnam to establish, based on existing strengths, a
modern, world class Customs service.

The Bank has supported CPRGS objectives through quick disbursement o f Poverty Reduction
Support Credits (PRSCs).      Specifically, the PRSCs have supported strategic elements o f the
reform agenda.       These are elements that cut across sectors and require consensus and
endorsement at the highest political level. These programmatic lending activities have been
complemented by investment loans to ensure that higher level strategic changes bear fruit on the
ground. PRSC4, the most recent operation o f that sort, continues Bank support for Vietnam's
international economic integration, including the government's efforts towards W T O accession.
PRSC4 includes prior actions to improve the transparency and accountability o f government
functions. The Vietnam Customs Modernization Project (VCMP) would neatly complement
these overall policy goals.

Exploiting the full benefits o f a fast and efficient Customs service requires an appropriate
synchronization with transport infrastructure and regulations. The Bank has been involved with
strengthening transport infrastructure in Vietnam and this engagement is likely to remain
important in the future. The Bank's recently launched multi-modal transport regulatory review
will offer insights for coordinating reforms inCustoms with those inthe logistics industry.

The project is also complementary to and builds on work by various development partners,
including the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the areas o f identifying strategies and
priorities for tax and Customs administration reform, money laundering and balance o f payments
statistics; the UnitedNation Development Program (UNDP) inthe Customs statistics system; the



                                                 2

World Customs Organization (WCO) and Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA) inthe
provision o f training and technical assistance; the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) on BTA implementation and WTO accession; the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) in Customs facilitation through the GMS Cross-Border Transport initiative; and
the EuropeanUnion (EU) inCustoms capacity enhancement.

3. HigherLevelObjectivesto Whichthe ProjectContributes

The proposed VCMP is listed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report that
was presentedto the Board on February 19, 2004. Inthe earlier full CAS presented to the Board
on September 3, 2002, it was listed as Component I11 o f the Public Administration Reform
(CAS, Annex D1, page 8 o f 19). Since the complete CAS, the Government's resolve to accede
to the WTO has strengthened considerably. It announced its intention to accede "as soon as
possible", and accession by mid-2006 appears to be a realistic target. In support o f this
commitment the CAS update explicitly added assistance to strengthen Vietnam Customs.

The three pillars or broad objectives of the government's CPRGS are also the organizing
principles o f the Bank's CAS. The proposed project o f Customs modernization will contribute
to two o f the main pillars o f the CPRGS, namely completing the transition to a market economy
with growing international economic integration and building modern governance, including
reduced scope for corruption.       Enhancing the quality o f governance, including undertaking
Customs modernization, is viewed as essential in supporting private sector development. Being
a key component of the investment climate o f a country, strengthening Customs would also be
seen as a vehicle for encouragingboth domestic and foreign investment.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1.LendingInstrument

This is a specific investment loan (SIL).

2. ProjectDevelopmentObjectiveand Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective is to facilitate trade, increase revenue collection, improve
the production o f foreign trade statistics, and enhance community protection and national
security by improving the effectiveness, efficiency, accountability and transparency o f the
Customs Administration. Inaddition, the project would be a key factor in facilitating Vietnam's
accession to the WTO and securing the gains from greater integration into the world trading
system.


The VCMP is expected to meet these objectives by: (i)   introducing modern Customs systems and
procedures based on internationally agreed standards and best practice; (ii)improving the
organizational structure and strengthening the human, financial and physical resource capacity o f
the GDVC; and (iii)introducing appropriate information and communication technology to
improve effectiveness, increase transparency and lower transaction costs. The project builds
upon the on-going efforts o f other donors, and will seek to reinforce their inputs.


                                                3

Key performance indicators o f the VCMP as indicated in the table below will be assessed
throughout the project life by the Customs clearance-time measurement and the client survey,
 alongside the broader development outcomes supported and assessedunder the PRSCs.

 Broader Development Indicators


 0   A rising ratio o fexports, particularly manufacturedexports, to GDP.
 0   An increase inthe share ofprivate sector exports to total exports.
 0   An increase inprivate sector investment to GDP.
 0   Reduced corruption as rated by independentmonitors.
 0   An improvement inthe reliability and public availability o f data.

 These broader development indicators are beyond the scope o f the project and will be measured
 and monitored outside the project M&E system.

 SelectedPerformanceIndicators*:


    Outcome/ Output                           Indicator                r        Indicativetarget **


  Increased                    Client perceptions o f Customs'
  transparency o f             performance as measured by client          Significant improvement in

  customs operations           surveys                                   client perceptions


  Increased efficiency o f     Total revenue collection cost over         20% decrease
  customs operations           revenue collected
                               Declarations per number o f staff          25% increase

  Reduced clearance            Mean import clearance times for            45% reduction at airports and
  times                        commercial shipments at ports, roads,      ports by end of project; 25%
                               and airports                               reduction at roads
r                              Percentage o f consignments subjected to   At least 50% reduction
                               physical inspections

  Lower revenue                Revenue generated and/or infringements
   leakage                     detected as a result o f Customs'          50% increase

                               intervention pre or post clearance
I*  A full set o f indicators y project components is presented inAnnex 3: Arrangement for Results
 Monitoring.
 **  At project completion.

 3. Project Components

 The VCMP will provide consulting services, training, technical assistance and appropriate
 infrastructure to support three key operational components and one support component. It will
 have a total cost o f US$77.7 million, o f which US$ 65.9 million will be financed by IDA and


                                                         4

US$ 11.8 millionby the Government. The components were identified following the conduct o f
a diagnostic study and the preparation o f a new Customs business model based on contemporary
approaches to Customs administration.        The components provide a structured approach or
pathway to close the gap between the current situation, as outlined in the diagnostic study, and
the desired future state, as articulated inthe new business model. Component one deals with the
core technical systems and procedural aspects o f the reform program, and component two with
the necessary organizational and resource management improvements necessary to underpin the
new systems. Component three provides the information and communication technology (ICT)
support deemed necessary to achieve world class standards o f performance in Customs
administration.   Component four provides the necessary technical and managerial support
requiredto achieve effective implementation and long-term sustainability o f project objectives.

Component 1: Customs Systems and Procedures (Total financing required: US$ 4.2 million;
IDA credit: US$2.7 million; Government contribution: US$1.5 million). This component is
designed to assist the GDVC to introduce a range o f modern systems and procedures that will
reduce clearance times, provide enhanced transparency and predictability for traders, reduce red
tape and lower transaction costs. Specifically, it will support the development and
implementation of: (i)a modern, transparent and accessible legal framework; (ii)modern
procedures such as risk management and post clearance audit; and (iii)harmonized and
simplifiedbusiness processes based on international standards such as the WCO Revised Kyoto
Convention on the Harmonization and Simplification o f Customs Practices. The component will
also focus on improving the level o f compliance through a more dynamic approach to Customs
enforcement and by achieving enhanced cooperation with other government agencies. Attention
will be paid to reducing informal trade and commercial fraud through the development o f an
enhanced compliance and enforcement infrastructure based on the effective use o f intelligence
and improved research and analysis capabilities. Another part o f this component will endeavor
to improve the capacity and performance o f the Customs brokerage industry.

Component 2: Organizational Restructuring and Management (Total financing required:
US$ 26.8 million; IDA credit: US$ 21.5 million; Government contribution: US$ 5.3 million).
This component will support a rationalization o f the organizational structure o f Customs. It will
include a restructure at the headquarters, regional and branch level offices, designed to
strengthen managerial control,        improve decision making and provide an appropriate
organizational focus on a range o f critically important `value added' functions. It will also focus
on developing an enhanced human, financial and physical resource management capacity within
the GDVC.      This will result in the introduction o f modern, merit based, human resource
management policies and practices, and a greater capacity to identify and develop the necessary
staff competencies to meet current and future needs. The capacity and functioning o f the
Customs Training Academy will be improved to ensure it i s able to make a more effective
contribution to the long-term development o f the GDVC. The capacity o f the GDVC to plan and
manage its financial and physical resources will be enhanced through improvements in the
financial accounting and budgeting system, including asset management and internal audit. This
component will also provide, when necessary, adequate equipment and infrastructure to support
critical project objectives, notably accommodation for ICT equipment, refurbishment and
adaptation o f facilities to reinforce the new business approach, and appropriate non-intrusive
detection equipment. The component will strengthen the strategic planning capacity o f the



                                                  5

GDVC and its performance management and monitoring systems. This would allow it to plan
for future needs and to measure success in meeting client service standards. As integrity and
good governance are critical issues, significant attention will be given to the development,
implementation and monitoring o f a comprehensive integrity / anti-corruption action plan and to
supporting administrative systems.

Component 3: Information and Communication Technology (Total financing required: US$
41.4 million; IDA credit: US$ 38.8 million; Government contribution: US$ 2.6 million). This
component i s designed to provide the GDVC with a modern ICT environment and corresponding
infrastructure and will include: (i)  the development and implementation o f a comprehensive and
modern Management Information System that will support the redesigned Customs processes,
the collection o f data for management, planning and statistics purposes, and improved access to
information; (ii)  the procurement o f hardware and infrastructure development necessary to the
rollout o f the new system; (iii) funding o f appropriate telecommunications equipment and
                                    the
infrastructure; (iv) support for the nationwide rollout and the training o f customs officials at all
levels; and (v) measures to improve the capacity o f GDVC to manage the new system and I C T
infrastructure.

Component 4: Project Management Support (Total financing required: US$ 4.6 million; IDA
credit: US$ 3.0 million; Government contribution: US$ 1.6 million). In addition to the above
described key components, a fourth component has been included to provide detailed project
management support to the Project Management Unit (PMU) and project-related coordination
bodies including the Customs Modernization Steering Committee. The component will ensure
that adequate technical support i s provided to the P M U during all stages o f project
implementation.

Summary o fthe project components, their indicative costs, and the Bank financing i s as follows:

            Project Cost by Component and/or Activity"                Local     Foreign      Total
                                                                    U S $ m n   U S $ m n  U S $ m n
  Component 1: Customs Systems and Procedures                          1.6         2.6        4.2
  Component 2: Organizational Restructuringand Management              5.3        21.5       26.8
  Comoonent 3: Information and CommunicationsTechnolow                 2.6        38.8       41.4
  Component 4: Project Implementation Support                          1.6         3.O        4.6
  Service Charge and Commitment Fees                                   0.7                    0.7
 *Total FinancingRequired                                             11.8        65.9       77.7
  Includingprice and physicalcontingencies.

 4. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design

 World Bank and other relevant agencies' research, including WCO and the Organization o f
 Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), highlights a number o f critical issues that
 need to be addressed for successful reform and modernization in Customs.               The design,
procurement packaging and implementation arrangements for the VCMP reflect these lessons
 and draw on the accumulatedexperience o f the Bank. These include:




                                                  6

(i) The need for a conductive reform environment where Client ownership and
sustained high-levelpoliticalwill and commitmentare affirmed. Without such commitment
maintained over the longer term, reform efforts are likely to be unsuccessful, regardless o f the
quality o f their design and implementation. The VCMP i s a demand-driven project, building on
the Client's strong determination for deepening international integration, and reforming public
administration. Experience elsewhere - including in South East Europe, Turkey and Russia -
indicates that the probability for long-term success i s highest when the reform project is closely
linked to wider government reform agenda. In the case o f Turkey, the Customs agenda was
closely linked to Turkey's wider EU accession agenda. By the same token, the Vietnamese
Government's commitment to WTO accession i s likely to have an extremely positive impact on
the Customs reform agenda and will assist inmaintaining a high level o f political commitment to
the project.    Since the project was launched at a government-led high level seminar, the
commitment o f the government has been evident at all stages o f project preparation.          The
leadership o f the project during the design phase has been under the general direction o f the
senior management o f the M O F and the GDVC, and senior officials have been designated in
each region to ensure effective information sharing and participationinthe design o f the project.

(ii) The need for accurate diagnosis of modernization needs and the development of
country-specific responses. While Customs administrations throughout the world face similar
strategic challenges and perform similar regulatory functions, their individual circumstances,
operating environments, administrative competencies, resource availability and development
ambitions vary. The project preparation has been based on a comprehensive diagnostic o f the
situation prevailing inVietnam. The assessment was undertaken as part o f a Policy and Human
Resource Development (PHRD) Grant. To ensure the reliability o f the approach taken for the
diagnostic process, the PHRD-funded consultants used the WCO's Customs Capacity Building
Diagnostic Framework. This framework provides a template for addressing all key operational
and support functions o f Customs and i s based on international standards and best practice.

(iii) The needfor pre-reformcapacityenhancement. Lessons frompreviouslarge scale
Customs projects strongly suggest that senior management participation and ownership o f the
project i s critical to its long-term success and sustainability. During the VCMP preparation
phase, the Bank funded the conduct o f a residential development program for key senior
executives o f the GDVC and representatives o f key stakeholder agencies. The program was
developed and conducted by the University o f Canberra, Customs and Excise Studies Centre and
was tailored specifically to the needs o f Vietnam in order to expose participants to all the major
principles that underpin modern Customs administration, as well as the project management and
leadership skills necessary to drive the change process. As a result, the executive gained a much
better understanding of the scale, scope and content o f the changes envisaged under the project
and have been able to play a more active and constructive role both inproject development and
in leading the change process in GDVC. Similarly, the Bank also funded a study visit for a
senior management delegation o f Vietnam Customs to learn managerial experience o f Customs
reform and execution o f the Bank-supported Customs project for Russia and Turkey. As a result,
various lessons have been learnt and are reflected in the VCMP design and implementation
arrangements.




                                                 7

(iv)    The need to acquire instruments to make reform measurable. It is important that the
modernization project and its impact be measured regularly and progress assessed on an
objective basis. As such, during all stages o f the VCMP preparation, significant attention was
paid to obtaining accurate base line data in respect to core business processes. For example,
surveys o f clearance times were conducted at major ports and land border crossings and will be
periodically carried out to determine the impact o f the reform process. Likewise, a client survey
program i s under preparation which will provide a clear view o f the perceptions o f the business
community. These two key performance measurements make the VCMP significantly result-
oriented. In addition, the project incorporates a major sub-component dealing specifically with
further strengthening the quality o f performance indicators for all key Customs operational and
procedural areas. The development o f such indicators and monitoring mechanisms will facilitate
supervision and monitoring o f the project.

(v)     The need for enhanced co-operation and coherence between donors.               One o f the
perennial problems facing all capacity-building recipients and providers i s the poor level o f co-
ordination and communication between national, regional and international donors leading to
duplication o f effort, little or no attention to other strategically important areas o f Customs
administration, and sometimes conflicting recommendations. Therefore, significant attention has
been paid during the VCMP design to ensuring effective cooperation between donors. The
project builds on the complementary work currently being undertaken by a range o f donors and
attempts to avoid duplication o f effort. Meetings were heldwith all key donors during all stages
o f project preparation and the project components reflect the areas in which the most `value
added' can be achieved.

(vi)    The need for adequate human and financial resources to be devoted to achieving
project objectives.     Customs administrations in many developing countries typically face
enormous pressure to maximize revenue collections. To achieve this, particularly inan operating
environment characterized by poor levels o f voluntary compliance, Customs officials typically
resort to high levels o f documentary and physical inspection to verify the value, classification
and origin o f goods. While this results in significant delays in Customs clearance and creates an
operating environment that i s vulnerable to corruption, it does not bring the expected results in
terms o f increased compliance. At the same time, Customs administrations also face significant
pressure from the private sector and trade-related government agencies to expedite the
processing and clearance o f goods. This can only be achieved by reducing the level o f routine
and resource-intensive documentary and physical examination. Experience in all industrialized
countries has proved that such apparently competing demands and objectives can be successfully
managed by an efficient and effective Customs administration: the scale and the scope of the
improvements necessary to achieve this in developing countries are extensive. Unfortunately,
human and financial resources devoted to such fundamental changes have often been inadequate
to achieve the changes required and in many cases, even when improvements have been made,
they have proved unsustainable in the longer term. In order to re-address these problems, the
project design has incorporated (i)a five year implementation timeframe; (ii)significant
provision o f short- and long-term in-country advisors; and (iii)the development o f W T O
compatible fee arrangements which will provide a pool o f financial resources necessary to ensure
sustainability o f project objectives.




                                                  8

(vii)   The needto obtain adequateprivate sector participationand commitment. Experience
in previous Bank's Customs-related projects suggests that it is important to secure long-term
commitment and participation o f the private sector in the modernization program. Significant
attention has been devoted to this inthe project design, including a more formalized process for
consultation, cooperation and partnership with the private sector, and involving the creation o f a
Customs brokerage industry. In addition, the Vietnamese Chamber o f Commerce and Industry
was invited to participate in all preparation stages, including the design and conduct o f the
baseline client surveys. The participants included key stakeholders such as manufacturers, freight
forwarders, shippers and port operators.

5. Alternatives ConsideredandReasonsfor Rejection

The lessons learned during this and previous research have been incorporated in the project
design and are reflected in this Project Appraisal Document (PAD)       Inaddition, attention was
paid to reviewing a number of previous reform activities undertaken in the GDVC to ensure
previous mistakes were not repeated.           For example, the GDVC initially proposed a
modernization program that was over-reliant on a technology-intensive design, effectively
equating modernization solely with new equipment. However, experience throughout the world
suggests that such an approach greatly limits the rate o f return on investment if business
processes are also not redesigned. Furthermore, the GDVC's approach in developing an in-
house IT system is likely to be beyond the technical competence o f the GDVC at this time. The
project will therefore finance the procurement and implementation o f balanced investment in
both physical and human resources. It will target the procurement o f an existing `off the shelf
system customized to fit the specific requirements o f Vietnam.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, through MOF, will be the Borrower for the International
Development Association (IDA) credit.         The beneficiaries will be the GDVC; other line
ministries, including Committee on Fighting Against Smuggling, Counterfeiting and
Commercial Fraud; border agencies; and other stakeholders. Proposed implementation
arrangements include the following elements: (i)    Customs Modernization Steering Committee;
and (ii) PMU.

(i) CustomsModernizationSteeringCommittee(CMSC). TheCustomsreformiscurrently
directed by a Steering Committee, headed by the Vice Minister o f Finance and implemented by
an Executive Committee consisting o f representatives from the MOF, GDVC and related line
ministries. It is proposed that the CMSC will: (a) provide a strategic direction to and oversee the
modernization o f Customs services; (b) provide guidance to the PMU inproject implementation
and the accomplishment o f its objectives; and (c) ensure coordination with relevant agencies and
institutions, and the businesses community, including small and medium enterprises (SOEs). To
ensure greater effectiveness of reform guidelines established by the CMSC, the GDVC has
appointed a full-time Customs senior executive inevery Customs province whose role will be to:
(a) translate into operational requirements policy reforms decided at national level; (b) evaluate



                                                 9

resistance and other delaying factors and design corresponding change management approaches,
and; (c) report onprogress and difficulties to the GDVC and CMSC.

(ii)    Project Management Unit. It i s proposed that one o f the most senior members o f
GDVC's Management will be appointed to be the Project Director o f the VCMP. The Director
should manage to make best use o f project outcomes to ensure effective and speedy
implementation. He or she should attend all the CMSC meetings and be empowered to make
decisions in relation to implementation o f the project. The Director will convene and chair
coordination meetings with other Ministries, agencies and stakeholders as required. The P M U
should include a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Specialist, a Financial Management
Specialist, an I C T Specialist and a Customs / Business Process Specialist, as well as support
administrative personnel. It i s considered that the existing Project PreparationUnit (PPU) could
form the core o f the proposed PMU, thus ensuring continuity, but it will needto be strengthened
with additional resources, including international consultancy and technical expertise. The P M U
will cover procurement, loan management and reporting functions acceptable to IDA. The PMU
will coordinate the project management, prepare terms of reference, and hire consultants and
contract for services, training and goods as necessary for the implementation of the project.

2. Sustainability

Six factors are considered critical for project sustainability, all o f which have been addressed in
the project design.

(i) Client's ownership of andhigh level commitment to its reform agenda including the
Customs modernization program. The project contributes to higher level objectives such as
WTO accession, private sector development, reforming public administration and enhancing
governance. The strategic reform agenda that supports these higher level objectives is strongly
owned by the Government. It i s also widely supported by the donor community through the
PRSC process. This represents an overarching reason that greatly strengthens the sustainability
o fthe actions envisaged under the current project.

(ii)  Clear direction and participation of the government and the Customs executive in project
design and development. The most senior management o f the Ministry o f Finance have been
actively involved inall aspects o f project preparation and have overseen the establishment o f the
project management coordination mechanisms. Likewise, the M O F has approved the Customs
Modernization Plan prepared by GDVC. The Modernization plan adopts international standards
and best practice, and i s totally consistent with the objectives sought for the project.

(iii)   The development of a sustainable, in-house capacity for continuous improvement
following completion of project activities.         The project has placed significant priority on
developing the soft infrastructure necessary for an ongoing process and a culture o f continuous
improvement. These include: (a) the creation o f a dedicated strategic planning capacity within
the GDVC; (b) the reorganization of the GDVC to better focus on a range of `value added'
functions; (c) the identification o f a range of core competencies required to manage complex
Customs operations in the future; and (d) parallel investments in developing the Vietnam




                                                    10

Customs College and curriculum to better equip staff for future management, administrative and
technical tasks.

(iv)    The establishment of sound financial management and budgeting arrangements. The
project is placing significant priority on developing a more transparent and predictable financial
management and resource allocation process which will ensure Customs are able to predict and
budget for future needs. In addition, the project will develop a WTO compatible fee structure
which will provide an ongoing income stream to finance the ICT infrastructure that will be
implemented as a result of the project.

(v)     Reliance on ICT as a key business strategy. The implementation o f advanced ICT
systems will radically streamline operations by simplifying procedures, increasing transparency,
removing opportunities for the unlawful use o f official discretion and introducing internationally
agreed standards. Such changes, once implemented, will be extremely difficult if not impossible
to reverse.

(vi)    Participation of        the private sector via licensing and partnership arrangements.
Fundamental to the changes that will be implemented as a result o f the project will be the
development o f a new and more productive relationship betweenthe private sector and Customs.
Such changes will incorporate a range o f incentives and disincentives which will increase private
sector compliance and improve the investment climate.                The development o f sound and
quantifiable performance indicators and client standards will mean any slippage in performance
will be easily identifiable and Customs officials will be heldaccountable.

3. Critical Risks and Possible ControversialAspects

While the lessons learned from previous Customs reform projects undertaken by the Bank and
other donors have been considered and factored into the project design, several risks have been
identified, however, which may impact on the project's success.                   These, together with
appropriate measures to mitigate these risks, are outlined inthe following table.

                 Risk                                             Risk Mitigation Measure

From Outputs to Objective

(i)Governmentmaynot sustainthe high        M    Government andbusiness community support for the projectis
levelof commitment necessaryfor long-           extremely strong. Project is basedon implementationof
term success, due to, but not solely            agreed internationalcommitments. Existenceofkey
causedby, the sheer magnitudeofthe              performance standards and indicatorswill quickly identify any
project.                                        slippage fromprojecttargets. The projectprovidesfor
                                                extensive in-county TA andtrainingto increase staffcapacity.

(ii)Changesneededto the legal              M    Significantattention has beenpaidto assessingthe necessary
framework may notbe approvedbythe               changes to the legalframework. Governmentagreementhas
governmentleadingto inabilityto                 beenobtainedto undertakea comprehensivere-draftingofthe
implementreformagenda.                          legal framework inline with international standards.
From Components to Outputs

CustomsSystems and Procedures



                                                    11

 (i)InabilityofCustomsofficialsto             H      jignificant investmentinhumanresource development,                I

 move away from a control mentality to               raining, performancemanagement and meritbased
 one basedon risk-based intervention.                idvancement. Establishmentofperformance standards.
                                                    tevised management, administrative andreporting structure
                                                    Jroviding more effective supervisionof regional and branch
                                                     Iffices. Redundancyprogram for officials unableto meet new
                                                    .equirements.

 (ii)Inadequatetechnicalskillsand             M     'roject makes provisionfor significant short- and long-term
 willpower necessary to ensure effective             echnical advisors. Significant investment inthe development
 implementation of new techniques and               IfaNational CustomsCollege andtechnical skills curriculum.
 procedures.

 (iii)Customsreformprogramis                  H     'roject implementation plan makes adequate provisionfor
 comprehensiveand complex. High                      jequencingof activities. Where interdependenciesare present
 degree of interdependenceand                        hey have beennoted and scheduledaccordingly. Flexibility
 interrelationship betweenindividual                 md generous implementation timeframes have been
 components and activities.                          ncorporatedinproject design. Project management
                                                     nechanismsare strong.
 Organization and Management

 (i)Rationalizedadministrativeand              H     Projectwill focus on new remuneration and conditions of
 management structure will result in                 service provisions which will provide amore appropriatemix
 fewer middle and senior management                  3 f incentives and disincentives for staff at all levels. Special
 positions inregional offices thus                   attentionwill be paidto transitional arrangementsto ensure
 affecting career opportunities for                  staff commitment to the project's objectives i s maintained.
 existing officials. It may be difficult to
 obtain political support for such
 significant change.

 (ii)Reformsthatreducetheopportunity           H     Project incorporatesa comprehensive integrityprogram
 for part of Customs officials to charge             backedup by robust enforcement mechanisms. Use of ICT
 monopoly rents for the use of their                 will remove many opportunities for the unlawhl use of official
 official discretion will be resisted.               discretion.

 TCT

  (i)Application software development          H     Specialattention was paidto the PIP to include the proper
 has ahighprobability of failure and                 sequencingof activities andto ensure experiencedtechnical
 hardwaremay be acquiredtoo early.                   advice.


  (ii) experience,ICTprocurement
     From                                      H     Project managementunit will include specific ICT
 packages are prone to being delayed due             procurementexpertise.
 to their complexity.

  (iii)Riskoffraudandcorruptionin
  project procurement.                         M     Project managementinfrastructure is sound, and suitable
                                                     provision will be made for supervision of procurement in
                                                     monitoring and evaluation plan.

I Overall Risk Rating                          H
                               Risk Rating- :HighRi:  S (SubstantialRisk), M (ModerateRisk),N(Negligibleor Low Risk)




                                                          12

4. Credit Conditionsand Covenants

EffectivenessConditions: The Borrower has: (i)       established the Project Management Unit and
appointedthereto a competent Project Director and staff, in accordance with the provisions o f the
Development Credit Agreement; and (ii)adopted and put into effect a financial management
manual.

Covenants: covenants have beenspecifiedinthe DCA.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. EconomicandFinancialAnalyses

Financial Analysis: The financial analysis attempts to distill the impact o f the reform by
estimating the difference inrevenue collection `with' and `without' the project. Three scenarios
are considered for increase in revenues relative to a benchmark `without project' stream. Inthe
base case, revenues are projected to rise to a level that is 2% higher than the benchmark. The
project life i s assumed to be 12 years, with five years o f investment and seven years o f full-scale
operation. Table 1 summarizes the results: the project is financially feasible even when the
favorable impact o f the IDA loan i s not considered, Le., the financial analysis i s from a Total
Investmentpoint of view. The real financial IRRreaches 47%, and the financial NPV at a 10%
real discount rate is US$ 139 million. When IDA loan financing i s considered (Le., the financial
analysis is from the Government's point o f view), the financial internal rate o f return, inreal US$
terms, i s much higher, at 276%. The financial NPV at a 10% real discount rate is a substantial
US$187million.


  Financial Analysis-Total investment perspective     FinancialAnalysis--Government'sperspective
        IRR(real)              NPV @ 10%               IRR(real)               NPV @ 10%
                             (US$ million, real)                               (US$ million)
           47%                      139                  276 Yo                     187

EconomicAnalysis: The cost-benefit analysis excludes the impact of the IDAloan cash flow, as
well as the financial benefits resulting from higher tax collection due to better enforcement. The
latter simply represents fiscal transfer from one economic agent to the other. Only those costs
and benefits that impact on economic welfare are considered. Two scenarios are studied. The
Base Case Scenario examines the economic impact o f the cost reduction or savings to the trader
due to lowered clearance time at Customs only.             Scenario 2 integrates the economically
beneficial impact o f the synergy inbetter cooperation between customs and border authorities on
reduced clearance time intotal. Essentially, the outcomes o f both scenarios can be considered as
lower bound estimates, as both leave out other tangible economic benefits, notably the second
round effects o f trade expansion on economic growth.              The project i s highly desirable,
economically. In the base case scenario, the real economic IRR attains 156%, and the real
economic NPV reaches more than US$705 million. The net economic outcomes under Scenario
2 are significantly higher. InScenario 2, the real economic IRR is 531%, and the real economic
NPV i s more than US$2.6 billion.




                                                  13

               Base case scenario                                         Scenario 2
        IRR(real)                NPV @ 10%                   IRR(real)             NPV @ 10%
                               (US$ million. real)                               (US$ million. real)
          156Yo                     705                         531%     I            2,6 13

2. Technical

The technical approach used for the project design i s based on the best Customs practices as
articulated inthe WCO's Revised Kyoto Convention, and implementedthrough PHRD Grant TF
053144. The Terms of Reference (TORs) for the Trade Facilitation and Legal Development
Component was a self standing activity and focused on reviewing the Customs legislations
(including the Customs Code of 2000) with the objective of proposing how the current
legislation could be adjustedto ensure consistency with the forthcoming WTO membershipand
best Customs practices. The TORs for the project design were combined into a single contract
(as illustrated in Figure 1) in order to undertake a comprehensive diagnostic review of the
Customs administration in Vietnam, its organization, resources and operations; prepare a new
Customs Business Process Redesign (BPR) that is designed to bridge the gap between the
`present state' and the `target state' of Customs; and produce a detailed project implementation
plan.

Figure 1:Technical Approach Employed DuringProject Design

               Contract on I,egai                         -.-

                 Developnteot            Contract onthe project dejign
                 -




                                              T         I             T    T




The key product resulting from the Consultant's work on the project design includes the
Diagnostic Study which profiled the current situation within the GDVC and highlighted the
issues that needed to be addressed within the modernization process; the Customs Business
Model which suggested potential `goals' for modernization of Customs in terms o f where the
GDVC needs to be withinthe next five to ten years interms of becoming a world-class Customs


                                                        14

organization; the Customs Business Process Redesign which provides a `pathway' to enable the
GDVC to progress from the current position, as set out in the Diagnostic Plan, to the goal, as
presented in the Customs Business Model, by addressing the various issues in a structured
manner with clear priorities; and the Project Implementation Plan that forms part o f the overall
Vietnam Customs ModernizationProject.

This methodology provides a logical development sequence, first identifying the current situation
as the base from which future development will take place, then where the GDVC wants to be in
the future, and finally a definition as to what is required to get there. More importantly, this
logical approach, with its linkages, provides an audit trail for the modernization process inthat it
i s based on a sequential concept that enables both GDVC and external parties to understandwhy
specific sector components have been included, and be able to measure implementation progress
inbothqualitative and quantitativeterms.

3. Fiduciary

A Project PreparationUnit(PPU) has been established andhas beenimplementingthe Technical
Assistance for project preparation (Le., the PHRD grant). Upon approval o f the credit, it i s
plannedto transform the PPU into a fully-fledged Project Management Unit (PMU). Staff o f the
PPU have already become acquainted - while not yet trained - with the Bank's fiduciary
requirements and instruments, including the need for annual financial audits.             Financial
management and procurement staff are under recruitment. In the PMU, both functions are
expected to be staffed by two individuals each. These individuals will receive training in Bank
procedures that i s available through the local Bank office and regionally.

The project has a relatively high content o f complex information system procurement. The
related challenges have carefully been identified and addressed in the project design. They are
also well understood by GDVC and the staff o f the PPU.              It is planned to augment the
procurement capacity o f the PMU by significant inputs from an internationally selected ICT
advisor and by additional short-term expertise inBank-financed ITC procurement.

Cost-benefit and implementation risk considerations strongly favor the implementation o f an
already existing software package for customs information systems.           The procurement plan,
therefore, foresees the possibility that the bidding process inthis case may have to use phases in
order to permit fair selection among competitors that have a dissimilar commercial structure. A
complete assessment o f financial management and disbursement arrangements can be found in
Annex 7, and o fthe procurement arrangements inAnnex 8.

 4. Social

 The VCMP will enhance revenue generation thus enabling the government to align more
resources for meeting the development goals set out in the CPRGS. The project will increase
transparency and accountability inVietnam Customs, and contribute to better provision o f public
 services, while effectively combating corruption.       The Customs functional reorganization,
 downsizing and salary reform are all o f particular importance to the VCMP. As such, the
technical assistance for a social safety net under the PRSCs, and the Bank's work on downsizing



                                                  15

o f the public sector within the PAR Master Plan, will ensure that key components of the project
are situated withinan overall national reform program.

5. Environment

Environment category: C -Not Required.

6. Safeguard Policies

The VCMP encompasses policy, legal, regulatory, capacity buildingactivities and an investment
component to assist in the implementation o f e-Customs and modernizing Customs equipment
used by the GDVC and related government agencies. There i s no settlement or displacement of
communities and indigenous people that will be encountered inthe project.

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OPIBPIGP 4.01)                                               [I                      [XI
  Natural Habitats (OPIBP 4.04)                                                          [I                      [XI
  PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                                11                      [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 [I                     [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement(OPIBP 4.12)                                                    [I                     [XI
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                   [I                     [XI
  Forests (OPIBP 4.36)                                                                    [I                     [XI
  Safety ofDams (OPIBP 4.37)                                                              [I                     [XI
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [I                     [XI
  Projectson International Waterways (OPIBPIGP 7.50)                                      [I                     [XI


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.




*By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas.


                                                             16

                           Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
                         VIETNAM: Customs Modernization Project

Recognizing the importance o f improving the quality o fpublic administration and governance, in
September 2001, the Government o f Vietnam (GoV) announced a Master Plan for Public
Administration Reform (PAR), o f which Customs reform i s a key component. Around the same
time, the Customs Law was passed by the National Assembly. This was followed by the
issuance o f sub-legislation and instructions dealing with the organizational structure o f the
General Department o f Customs (GDVC), the classification o f import and export goods, and
Customs valuation. Most recently, the Ministry o f Finance has approved the Strategic Plan for
Customs Reform and Modernization for 2004-2006. This project earmarks the state budget and
IDA sources for project financing.

While considerable reform measures have been undertaken recently, the GDVC is still
considered slow, unresponsive, inconsistent and vulnerable to corrupt practices. There is a lack
o f long-term vision that includes clear strategic goals and enabling instruments that can assist
reform implementation. The Customs administration will needto change significantly, shifting
its mindset from a culture o f domestic protection and control o f all transactions, aggravated by an
over-reliance on bureaucratic controls, to one that facilitates foreign trade and promotes private
sector development. Inaddition, after the terrorist attacks o f September 11, national security has
become a major Customs priority, yet how it i s accomplished should not thwart facilitation
objectives.

Procedures within the GDVC are bureaucratic and complicated. Customs use the Harmonized
System nomenclature (HS), rely on the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) for tracing
importers and will soon introduce the international Single Administrative Document (SAD)
declaration form, but clearance requires that many steps and documents must be attached to the
import declaration. In addition, the procedures are based on extensive physical examination o f
goods, with little or no concept o f risk management, and place too muchroutine responsibility on
mid-level management (repeated intervention o f the section chief).             They are essentially
designed to clear the paperwork with limitedanalysis o f the actual operation, and do not take full
advantage o f the existing computer systems.

The current structure o f Customs control is based on pre-clearance verification and an over-
reliance on physical examinations. Most, if not all, consignments are extensively examined.
Post-release audits are rightly considered as part o f the risk management approach and the
current legal framework allows for their use, but they are currently considered more as an
enforcement measure rather than as a compliance management mechanism, and are not regularly
carried out. It i s important that the concept o f intervention by exception be introduced, under
which a set o f mechanisms o f control - before, during and after the importation - are triggered
by intelligence-based risk profiles.       In addition, compliant traders should be identified,
acknowledged and rewarded under streamlined regulatory requirements.

Concerning Legislation, the Customs Law passed on June 29, 2001, does not altogether provide
for the modern instruments required under a rapidly expanding economy, and in the context o f
increased security concerns. The Law does not appear to incorporate many provisions o f the



                                                 17

Kyoto or Geneva Conventions, may be inconsistent to some extent with WTO rules, and
incorporates weak enforcement provisions. Provisions sometimes appear to extend to over-
generous procedures and to lack penal provisions. In addition, legislation affecting Customs
operations is scattered over a number o f laws and regulations that are not easily accessible to
importers. The Government's recent efforts focus on revision o f the Customs Law to meet
requirements inthe context o f WTO accession.

Customs valuation and control of the declared value of imported goods is generally a major
problem area for formerly state-controlled economies such as Vietnam. Customs until recently
checked the declared values against a minimum price list. While the minimumprice regime that
has been adopted in Vietnam i s a transitional method to assess import declared values, it is
inconsistent with WTO principles.        Thus, the recent removal o f the minimum price list is
consistent with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) valuation principles.
However, alternative services that can assist Customs to verify the correct value o f various
imports are not fully inplace.                                           r



Customs enforcement is the necessary counterpart to trade facilitation.               Managing the
enforcement o f Customs requirements faces several challenges in Vietnam: (i)          Legal powers
have proved to be insufficient.        While there are still many laws and regulations covering
Customs activities, criminal provisions written under these regulations lack clarity. Vietnam
Customs clearly need an overarching legislation that enable professional operations for
information gathering and analysis, stronger powers o f control, and adapted procedures for
prosecution. (ii)  Vietnam Customs are expected to control passengers and goods at approved
border crossings and inland clearance locations. This limited geographical autonomy may cut
off Customs from valuable sources o f information, and severely affect their capacity to intercept
or detect smuggling. Inaddition, the inability to carry out inland checks prevents relaxing border
verifications, thus limiting facilitation objectives. (iii)
                                                         There i s a need for improved training and
capacity-building and for technical equipment for Customs enforcement. (iv) Inter-agency
coordination between all the administrations intervening in the area, or on the periphery of
Customs, i s managed by a Government Committee (Committee 127), but some streamlining and
clarification would prove helpful, as cooperation with other forces i s at times difficult.

The government has highlighted potential tariff revenue losses as one o f its concerns as it
implements international agreements under AFTA, and in the near future under the WTO. As
such, it i s important for the government to have accurate information on how much revenue i s
due and how much is actually collected from different import items. At present, however,
Customs are unable to precisely estimate, in a timely manner, the revenue collected by import
items. This is because there is a mismatch betweentariff rates which are specified at the 8-digit
level and import flows which are recorded at the 6-digit level. This issue o f recording and
reporting trade flows (at least for internal purposes) at the same level o f detail should be one o f
the areas addressed through improved information management systems. Revenue collection
would also be strengthened by improving the system o f duty exemptions. At present the system
 o f investment incentives that provides import duty exemptions i s highly complex and non-
transparent, and it i s difficult to enforce. This leaves duty exemptions vulnerable to abuse,
 leading to revenue losses. Much o f the problem would be solved by simplifying the investment




                                                   18

incentives system, but the ability o f Customs to record and track the use o f these exemptions
would nevertheless need to be made more efficient and effective.

Since its first introduction in Vietnam in 1999, the VAT has quickly become one o f the major
revenue collection instruments. At the same time, the organizational separation between GDT
and GDVC has resulted inthe VAT on imports being collected by Customs but the refundbeing
administered by the GDT. Cooperationwith the tax administration therefore i s crucial. While a
memorandum o f understanding between the two administrations (which are under the
supervision o f same Vice Minister o f Finance) is being prepared, better coordination between the
Tax and Customs departments would greatly benefit from stronger audit programs and
connectivity o f the IT systems in both departments. To facilitate this cooperation, the audit and
arrears management function o f the GDVC should be strengthened, and the IT systems o f the
two General Departments with necessary interconnectivity should be set up to collect data useful
for the audits in the other General Department. The VCMP has permeated the tax-Customs
interface issues in all three major components: (1) Customs systems and procedures; (2)
Organizational restructuring and management; and (3)             Information and communication
technology. Further institutional arrangements need to improve in order to facilitate a smooth
tax-Customs interface, taking into account critical factors such as the existing organizational
setting, operational procedures, configuration o f revenue systems, historical relationships and
management performance.

The organization and management o f the GDVC is currently inadequate to sustain the changes
that are necessary to transform it into a modern Customs administration capable o f meeting the
many challenges described above. Inparticular, weaknesses are evident infour critical areas: (i)
human, financial and physical resource management; (ii)organizational and institutional
framework; (iii)    integrity and good governance; and (iv) change management. In respect to
human resource management, significant improvements are required in: (i)recruitment,
selection, promotion and advancement o f staff; (ii)   mobility and rotation o f officials; (iii)
                                                                                               human
resource development and training (specifically inrespect to the scope, function and operation o f
the Vietnam Customs College); (iv) staff remuneration; (v) performance management/staff
appraisal; (vi) conditions o f service; and (vii) discipline. Sound, transparent and accountable
financial management systems and procedures are important to ensure effective and efficient
management and administration. Senior managers must be able to plan and account for the
allocation and utilization o f resources. Financial management information systems need to be
made available which provide up-to-date information to managers to guide decision-making and
increase accountability. The introduction o f activity-based costing will increase the level o f
information available to managers on the precise costs associated with the discharge o f certain
functions.   This will in turn allow more precise forecasting, and increase the amount o f data
available to managers for planning and administrative purposes.


While the main focus o f the project is not on the acquisition o f infrastructure, equipment and
technical aids, modern Customs administration involves the use o f certain contraband detection
equipment including X-ray or other scanning equipment, radiation detection equipmentand other
non-intrusive examination, testing or detection equipment. The utilization o f such equipment
 can ensure that high risk containers and cargo are screened without undue delay to importers and
 exporters. It i s envisaged that a range o f such equipment will be funded either under the VCMP,


                                                   19

or through other donors' contribution. The GDVC has developed a comprehensive reform and
modernization strategy for the period 2010-2020 which articulates a long-term vision, is forward
looking in its scope and focus, and will guide the reform and modernization effort inthe coming
years. The GDVC would, however, benefit from further development o f its corporate strategic
planning and management capacity. The design and implementation o f a new organizational
structure better aligned to support business needs and to give due regard to key value added
functions, will be implementedas a part o fthe Customs modernizationproject.

Given the vitally important role Customs play in revenue collection, trade facilitation, national
security and the protection o f society, it i s important that a comprehensive integrity / anti-
corruption program be developed and implemented. To assist Customs administrations to
establish such programs, the WCO has prepared the Revised Arusha Declaration on Integrity in
Customs. The Declaration consists o f ten distinct but interrelated elements considered essential
for the development and implementation o f a comprehensive and sustainable anti-corruption and
integrity enhancement program.

Change management program o f the scale and scope o f the VCMP will require the development
and implementation o f a long-term change management strategy. The strategy will address the
following issues considered as critical to the overall success and sustainability o f the program
and achievement o f the Government's objectives. Special attention will be paid to designing a
change management program that i s inkeeping with cultural norms.

Information and Communication Technologies. The ASYCUDA system was installed between
1993 and 1996 with UNDP support, but was never used to its real capacity, largely because the
necessary legislative and procedural changes were not made at the time. However, an apparently
well functioning declaration processing system i s still in place in several offices, and several
applications, such as the consultation o f data bases (valuation and importer records in particular)
are in operation. The core functions that are computerized are: (i)declaration processing and
statistical data capture; (ii)
                             duty calculation, supervision o f debt and payments; (iii)  valuation;
(iv) supervision ofviolations; and (v) inward processing.

Customs have prepared an IT development plan for the period 2004 - 2006 which will match the
GoV's administrative computerization project.         It includes: (i)software development; (ii)
upgrade of hardware; (iii) infrastructure; and (iv) modern telecommunications. Features such as
electronic declarations, risk management, WTO-compatible valuation system, linkages with the
tax administration and post-entry audits would be incorporated into the system, which will be
compatible with ASEAN standards.




                                                 20

       Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies
                          VIETNAM: Customs Modernization Project

                                       Bank-financedProjects
                                                                                     SupervisionRatings

            Ongoing                     Sector Issue/ RelatedActivities                IP"         >Ot
~

econd Payment System and Bank Improvethe payment service and operation                  S           S
lodemizationProject           efficiency of participating banks
3.40410-VN)                   - The indirect beneficiaries ofthis project include
                              the government's Treasury and Customs, and the
US$ 112.9 million)            financial markets, as the expanded Inter-Bank
                              Payment System (IBPS) will provide faster and
                              more reliable payment services to these institutions.
                              Inaddition, the IBPS is being increasingly usedto
                              process payment collections and disbursements
                              relating to government activities, such as those
                              associated with the treasury and customs
                              departments, and will also underpin the cash leg of
                              financial market activities, such as a future inter-
                              bank money market and the cash leg of securities
                              transactions.                                                        -
'ublic Financial Management   Strengthen budget planning and execution, reporting        S           S
leform Project                -and  accountability
Cr. 37670-VN)                    The Local-Area Networks (LANs) that are being
                              created under this project are connecting the key
US$54.33 million)             financial agencies (the Treasury, Finance, Taxation
                               and Customs departments) in61 provinces.                            -
nformation and Communication   Vietnam ICT Development Project                          NR          NR
Ievelopment (P079334)          - Computerized interface between customs and othe
                               agencies, connectivity between provincial centers
                               and the central customs systems, as well as secure
                               electronic access for the trading community, non-
                               customs enforcements and banks.
'ublic Administratton Reform   Bank's participation inthe joint multi-donor effort      NR          NR
                               led by Sweden to support the Government
                               Inspectorate in anti-corruption work.
                               - Reducedcorruption and improvedtransparency
                               and accountability ingovernment operations,
                               including the Customs administration, will leadto
                               greater private investmentand thus a better
                               integration into the world trading system.            -
'WTO Accession Support         Research Activities:                                      NR         NR
                               A number ofresearchprojects have beencarried out
                               inco-operation with various ministries on the
                               characteristics and long-term prospects o f several
                               key industries, export-import activities and other
                               related areas inthe context o f WTO accession and
                               international integration. Substantial analytical worE
                               i s planned for 2005 with more focus on the
                               implementation o f the WTO agreement. A number



                                                   21

                                            Bank-financed Projects

                                                                                         Supervision Ratings

             Ongoing                          Sector Issue / Related Activities             IP*        DOT
                                   3 f workshops havebeenheld or are plannedfor
                                   sharingthe findings with the mainstakeholders.
                                   Training activities: aimto provide major WTO rules
                                   andagreements includingrelevantcase studieson
                                   Vietnam.
                                   - The Vietnamese Governmenthas announced its
                                   :ommitment to accede to the WTO. Inthis regard
                                   lheVCMP wouldcomplementthis policygoal as it
                                   aims to strengthenthe capacity of customs in
                                   Vietnamto ensure that the country is able to make
                                   an effective andefficientcontribution to the
                                   governmentobjectives in the respectto trade
                                   facilitation, revenuecollection, and integrationinto
                                   the worldtrading system.
'rivate Sector Development         [nvestmentClimate Assessment     - Objective: (1)takt    NR           NR
                                   a thermometerreadingofthe business environment;
                                   (2) provide inputsto the debate onthe draft unified
                                   EnterpriseLaw UEL) andthe commonInvestment
                                   Law (CIL); (3) benchmarkVietnam's investment
                                   climate againstregionalandinternational
                                   competitors onthe eve ofVietnam's accession to thc
                                   WTO; and(4) provide insight/analysis andpolicy
                                   recommendationsto address selectedissuesofkey
                                   concern to policy makers and firms.

                                   - Private  sectorparticipationis especiallyimportant.
                                   A strongrelationship and long-termcommitment
                                   betweenthe private sector andthe Customs
                                   administrationi s importantto improve private secto
                                   compliance andthe investmentclimate. A more
                                   soundVietnamesecustoms administrationand
                                   higher client standards meanthat any slippagein
                                   performancewill be easily identifiableandcustoms
                                   offices will be heldaccountable.
                                                                                          OED Evaluation


            Completed                                   Sector Issue

3ankingand PaymentSystem           Improvethe payment service andoperation
vlodernization I                   efficiencyofparticipatingbanks                       S(L(SB
5 = Satisfactory; L=Likely; SB = Substantial; M = Modest; NR = Not Rated
`-Implementation progress; `f -Developmentobjective




                                                        22

Sector Issue
                                           Activities                                  Sector Issues


                                      Other development agencies

4sian Development Bank Capacity buildingfor MOF to support                 \DB activities inregards to
                       Analysis (tariffs, industry and subsidy) for        hstoms are minimal; however there
                       WTO Accession.                                      s a scope for coordination under the
                                                                           4DB GMS project.
4ustralia              Assistance to STAMEQ on SPSiTBT issues to           n2005, AusAID may funda small
                       do with their Standards Ordinance                   echnical assistance project assisting
                                                                           Vietnam to draft a WTO-compliant
                                                                           Standards Ordinance, with a
                                                                           iarticular focus on the compliance
                                                                           Ifits TBT and SPS.
European Commission    MUTRAP Bridging Short-term TA to assist             The project will deliver Technical
                       the beneficiaries in strengthening the capacity     4ssistance services to the
                       ofthe government o f Vietnam and                    3overnment o f Vietnam (MPI,
                       Vietnamese stakeholders for managing WTO            Ministryo fFinance and STAMEQ)
                       accession (191,076 Euros).                          inassuring technical and
                       Multilateral Trade Policy Assistance Program        management support in six
                       (MUTRAP) Supporting Vietnamese officials            components including Fiscal Policy
                       inpolicy-making departments ofall relevant          andLegal Advisory Services;
                       ministriesinvolved inmultilateral trade policy      Taxation; Customs; Accounting,
                       issues (3,250,000 Euros).                           Auditing, Insurance; and Statistical
                       Multilateral Trade Policy Assistance Program        Analysis, Standards, among others.
                       I1(MUTRAP 11) The project purpose is to             The component regarding taxation
                       strengthen the capacity o f the government o f      and Customs i s roughly U S $ 3
                       Vietnam and Vietnamese stakeholders for             million, but the whole proiect is
                       managing WTO accession (5,100,000 Euros).           closer to US$ 14 millidn.  -
France                 Technical assistanceto the NCIEC and line           To prepare Vietnam for WTO
                       ministriesfor economic integration and WTO          accession in late 2005, the VCMG
                       accession: Training and assisting reviewing         complements this policy goal
                       o f legal system, capacity building and support     because its aim i s to strengthen the
                       to media.                                           customs administration.
IMF                    Balance o fpayments statistics mission, Tax         The IMFfocuses their efforts ontax
                        Self-Assessment Pilot mission, AML/CFT             issues, money laundering and
                       mission (to provide training on AMLiCFT             balance o f payments. It is also
                       measures for the relevant government                supporting Vietnam to join the WTO
                       agencies; follow up the progress in the             inlighto f acceptance of Article VI11
                       AMLiCFT regime inVietnam and the                    obligations o f the IMF's Article o f
                        implementation o fthe AML Decree, as well          Agreement as well as the signing o f
                       as the efforts for CFT which are not covered        a memorandum ofunderstanding
                       by the AML Decree); assistanceinstatistics          betweencustoms and the tax
                        o f trade, investment income, transfers, FDI,       administration.
                        and the signing o f an agreement between
                        Customs and Tax on sharing taxpayers
                        database using Tax Identification Numbers
                        (TIN); assistance inhelping Vietnam to accepl
                       the obligations of Article VI11ofthe IMF's
                       Articles o f Agreement, affirming the
                        liberalization o f current international trade anc
                        investment transactions..
Japan                   Modernization o f Customs Administration:           The JaDanese Droiect directlv



                                                      23

                Capacity building for General Department o f     inderlines the efforts o fthe Bank's
                Vietnam Customs to realize the modernization     VCMP.
                o f customs procedures.
Japan (JICA)    Capacity o f Master Trainers for                 lICA focuses its efforts on
                Modemization o f Customs Administration.         jeveloping master trainers who will
                Main activities include organization o f         x-ovide practical training inthe
                training and studytours for Vietnamese           xeas o f Customs Valuation, Post
                officials, and develop teaching material and     Clearance Audit, and H S
                guidelines.                                      Classification. Furthermore, will
                                                                 also act inthe capacity o f staff
                                                                 training inregional customs offices.
Norway          Market Access and Trade Facilitation Support     The goal o fthis project is to
                for Mekong Delta Countries, through              facilitate industrial development and
                Strengthening Institutional andNational          export capabilities, thus making a
                Capacities Relatedto Standards, Metrology,       sound, modem and transparent
                Testing and Quality (SMTQ).                      customs administration essential for
                                                                 this aim.
Singapore       Intemational Trade Institute o f Singapore: To   ITIS delivers technical assistance
                provide training, research and consulting in     training programs to Vietnamese
                customized training programs, courses,           customs officials and are involved in
                seminars, conferences ininternational            the Initiative for ASEAN Integration
                businessand trade. (ASEAN Initiative for         (IAI) for newer members.
                CLMV).
Sweden          Technical assistance on rules o f origin (ROO):  Administering rules o f origin is a
                Reviewing legal framework on ROO, case           core task o f customs administration.
                studies and study tour in Sweden.
r               Support to Trade Promotion and Export            A well-functioning, modem, and
                Development in Vietnam: To assist Vietnam        transparent customs administration
                inachieving the export growth rates set for the  is essential for export and trade
                decade:                                          promotion and increasing export
                                                                 growth rates.
UK(DFID)        Support to analytical and outreach activities to To prepare Vietnam for WTO
                prepare for WTO accession: Sectoral tariff       accession in late 2005, the VCMG
                reduction options inindustry and agriculture,    complements this policy goal
                WTO accession awareness-raising.                 because its aim i s to strengthenthe
                                                                                             -
                                                                 customs administration.
USA             USAID supports WTO accession issues under USAID supports WTO accession
                the STAR project, mainly inthe legislation       which includes: (a) legislation; (b)
                area. Main activities include supporting MOF      organization (inparticular the
                and General Department o f Customs in             establishment o f valuation and post-
                regulations on evaluation, Intellectual          release control units incustoms);
                property, export-import tax, etc.                 and (c) some training.




                                           24

                               Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                VIETNAM: CustomsModernizationProject

                                            ResultsFramework

                                            OutcomeIndicators               Use of OutcomeInformation

To facilitate trade, increase revenue   1 Client perception o f Customs'    htcome indicators provide an
:ollection,  improve the production       performance                       werarching framework for project
Ifforeign      trade   statistics, and                                      nanagement, monitoring, progress
:dance community protection and         1 Total revenue collection cost     ,eporting and periodic reviews.
national security by improving the        over revenue collected
:ffectiveness,              efficiency, 1 Declarations per number o f staff
accountability and transparency o f
the    Customs   Administration.     In   Mean import clearance times for

addition, the project would b e a         commercial shipments at ports,
                                          roads and airports
key      factor     in     facilitating
Vietnam's accession to the WTO          1 Percentage o f consignments
and     securing the     gains    from    subjected to physical inspections
greater integration into the world      1 Revenue generated and/or
trading system.                           infringements detected as a
                                          results o f Customs' intervention
                                          pre or post clearance.




Component One:                          Component One:                      Component One:

1. ImprovedCustoms Systems and          1 Timely development o f easily     These results indicators will be used
    Procedures.                           accessible legislation to support to track progress in implementing
                                          modernization.                    component one o f VCMP on
                                                                            Customs systems and procedures.
                                        1 Simplified procedures with
                                          reduced documentation
                                          requirements.

                                        1 Introduction o f risk management
                                        . and post clearance audits.
                                          Development o f a customs
                                          broking industry with DTI
                                          capability.

                                        1  Timely revenue reports to MOF
                                          with accurate revenue by import
                                           category.
 Component Two:                         Component Two :                      Component Two:

 2. A more effective and efficient      1  Reduction inthe number o f        Indicators will be used to track and
 organizational and management             citylregional offices and a new   verify progress inimplementation o f
 structure                                 HQstructure.                      the Customs modernization agenda
                                                                             on organizational restructuring and
                                        1  Assessment o f staff needs under
                                           new organizational structure.     management.


                                        1  Retraining and redeployment o f



                                                          25

                                     staff.                           I
                                   1 Management accounting and
                                     internal auditing unit created.

                                    aSupply and installation o f new
                                     equipment.

                                    1Development o f Asset register.

                                    1Change management report.

                                     Services charter and service
                                                                      I
                                     standards developed.

ComponentThree:                    ComponentThree:                     Component Three:

3. Improved Information Collection   Development o f applications: (i) Indicators will be used to monitor
and Management                       for handling customs operations   progress inI C T development and
                                     such as declaration processing;   application inVCMP.




                                                    26

              -0
              B
              0
              > 3
              8 Z




8e
U
g
0



N




  .   d
     z  td

     U

     u
     9
     $ 3
     E




.
d
z

I




2
d

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                           VIETNAM: Customs ModernizationProject

The VCMP will be implementedover five years at an overall cost o f US$ 77.7 million, o f which
US$65.9 million will be financed by IDA and US$ 11.8 million by the Government. The
project will achieve its development objectives through three operational components and one
project support component. Detailed descriptions o f the project components are as follows.

Component1. Customs System andProcedures

Total financing required: US$4.2 million
IDA Credit: US$ 2.6 million
Government contribution: US$ 1.6 million

This component i s designed to assist the GDVC to introduce a range o f modern systems and
procedures that will reduce clearance times, provide enhanced transparency and predictability for
traders, significantly reduce red tape and lower transaction costs. Specifically, the component
will support the development and implementation o f a modern, transparent and accessible legal
framework, modern systems and procedures based on risk management and post clearance audit,
and harmonized and simplified business processes based on internationally agreed standards,
notably the WCO Revised Kyoto Convention on the Harmonization and Simplification o f
Customs Practices.       The component will also focus on improving the level o f compliance
through a more professional approach to Customs enforcement and by achieving enhanced
cooperation with other border-related government agencies.        As a part o f this component,
attention will be paid to improving the capacity and performance o f the Customs brokering
industry. Likewise, attention will be paid to reducing informal trade and commercial fraud
through the development o f an enhanced compliance and enforcement infrastructure based on the
effective use o f intelligence and improved research and analysis capabilities.

Sub-component1.1. LegalFramework

A properly designed legislative management plan will be developed to provide an overarching
and cohesive structure to ensure successful passage and implementation o f the required
legislative changes necessary to achieve full implementation o f the project.      The plan will
identifythe main legislative tasks, key stakeholders, time frames, required resources and desired
outcomes. Several areas o f current legislation need to be improved, particularly in relation to
electronic transactions, the risk management environment, post clearance audit and Customs
applications. A database o f laws will be created and structured in a way that will make the
legislation easier to understand and reference.     Once the various decrees and circulars are
identified and collated according to their subject matter, and cross referenced, they will then be
made easily accessible to the public.

The VCMP will provide assistance to develop a legislative management plan, draft new
legislation, develop a structured set of laws and establish a practical outreach program,
includingpreparing relevant publications and improvements to the website. It will support the
translation of legislation.



                                                30

Sub Component1.2. Interventionby Exception

The implementation o f a comprehensive compliance managementhmprovement strategy,
together with the introduction o f a risk management philosophy, are essential to assist officials to
move from the current `control' mentality to one that balances control with facilitation. The
compliance management strategy will be developed with the full participation o f GDVC officials
and will examine the overall approach to managing and progressively improving the level of
compliance inVietnam. Followingthe development o f the strategy, work will commence on the
introduction of risk management into all aspects o f GDVC operations. A key element o f this
approach will be the creation of a strategic risk register made operational by developing a series
o f risk profiles that will then be used for the day-to-day implementation o f risk management in
Vietnam.     The profiles will also be incorporated into the IT systems to ensure comparable
treatment across the country. Following the design o f the risk management system, a training
program will be developed and implemented in two stages. Firstly, training will be provided to
specialists who will form the base staffing for the Risk Management Unit at Headquarters.
Secondly, training will be provided for operational personnel. `Train-the-trainer' techniques will
be employed wherever possible.

The VCMP will support the development of a comprehensive compliance management /
improvement strategy, the implementation of risk management throughout the organization and
the design and delivery of specialized training.

A comprehensive post clearance audit regime will be introducedto support the risk management
system.    Such a regime differs significantly from the current audit system which i s totally
reactive due to limits imposed by the current legal framework.         The Law will need to be
amended to allow for audits that seek to verify data rather than confirming the existence o f
commercial/economic crime.         Post clearance audit is, however, a complex activity and its
effective implementation will require significant investment intraining and technical assistance.
While JICA has already provided training in post clearance audit and i s developing a group o f
`master trainers', additional technical support and training will be required to establish the
regime and initiate a comprehensive audit program.

The VCMP will support the establishment of a comprehensive post clearance audit capacity
within the GDVC, assistance to prepare a sound national audit plan, the production of relevant
operational manuals and the design and delivery of practical training in post clearance audit
techniques.

Sub Component1.3. Harmonizedand SimplifiedBusiness Processes

This sub-component will focus on harmonizing and simplifying the business procedures and
documentation in line with the provisions o f the Revised Kyoto Convention on the
Harmonization and Simplification o f Customs procedures and will be undertaken in advance o f
IT system desigdadaptatiodimplementation. As part o f this process, there will be a complete
review of the support documentation required to be submitted with Customs declarations. It is
clear that the current `document pack' i s excessive by international standards and contains many



                                                  31

documents that are no longer required. Following this process and guidedby its results, bidding
documents will be prepared for the Vietnam Customs Information System (VCIS).                 It is
recognized, however, that the type of business process re-engineering required i s complex, as is
the preparation o f comprehensive biddingdocuments, and would benefit from external assistance
to facilitate and validate the process.

The VCMP will support the conduct of a comprehensive review and rationalization of
documentary requirements, the re-engineering of import/export/transit procedures and the
preparation of detailed bidding documentsfor the VCIS.

Establishing the correct valuation, classification and origin o f goods in line with internationally
agreed standards i s a core role for Customs. The GDVC needs to upgrade their skills and
experience in each o f these technical areas. While some training has already been provided by
donors and i s currently being supported by a JICA project (see Annex 2), further training and
assistance i s neededto ensure all necessary provisions are applied in a consistent and transparent
manner throughout the country. Particular emphasis should be placed on developing training
materials and manuals, and on training a pool o f technically proficient officials who can act as
content matter specialists and in-house trainers.

The VCMP will support the development of training materials and the provision of training in
the areas of valuation, classijkation and origin.

Ensuring the speedy and efficient clearance o f goods and conveyances crossing land borders i s
important both for Vietnam and neighboring countries.          Current import, export and transit
procedures will needto be reviewed and redeveloped to ensure that the processes are streamlined
and in line with regional and international best practice. Issues that will be addressed include the
identification o f opportunities for more effective cooperation both between the GDVC and other
government agencies operating at the border, and between the GDVC and the Customs
Departments in neighboring countries.        The latter will result in the development o f more
effective transit arrangements and the rationalization o f inspection activities.

The VCMP will support a review of current procedures for import, export and transit at land
border stations and the development of an action plan to guide the implementation of modern
systems andprocedures.

Sub-component 1.4. Transparency and Consistency

A major weakness inthe current logistics chain for Vietnam is the lack o f a group o f qualified
professional customs procedure agents, commonly referred to as Customs Brokers.                 The
introduction o f a more formalized Customs Brokers regime i s critical to the success o f the
automation process and to the development o f a more productive partnership with traders.
Technical assistance i s required to help GDVC to develop and promote the establishment o f a
Customs Broker industry and to develop an appropriate and transparent regulatory framework.




                                                  32

The VCMP will support the assessment of legislative requirements, the establishment of licensing
systems with competency requirements, and theplanning and conduct of awareness and training
programsfor ofJicials and representatives of theprivate sector.

In order to improve transparency and provide an increased level of certainty for traders and
investors, it i s important to provide a practical and easily accessible process for importers to
request advanced rulings on tariff and valuation. Once a ruling has been issued by Customs it
will be binding, thus allowing traders to import goods inthe full knowledge o f the classification
and valuation treatment Customs will apply on importation. Moreover, where disputes may arise
between traders and Customs officials, it i s important that traders have the right to dispute any
decisions that might be taken via an independent appeal process.

The VCMP will support the development and implementation of advance tariff and valuation
ruling systems and the strengthening of existing appeal mechanisms.

Sub-component1.5. Complianceand Enforcement

There is a need to improve capability o f GDVC ininformation gathering and analysis inorder to
support the proposed changes inprocedures envisaged under the project, particularly inthe areas
of risk management and post clearance audit. It is proposed that assistance be provided in the
planning and development o f a professionally-based Information Gathering and Analysis Unit
within GDVC Headquarters and subsidiary units at the regional level. This will involve the
design and conduct o f appropriate technical training to selected specialists followed by periodic
advice on how to develop improved information gathering and analysis systems and how to
make the best use o f information inthe application o f various Customs procedures. The strategy
and techniques o f commercial analysis and client segmentation are entirely outside the
experience o f the GDCV and indeed much o f the State administration. For this reason, technical
assistance will need to be extensive.

 The VCMP will support the development of a professional information gathering and analysis
capacity in the GDVC together with an enhanced capacity for research and analysis. This
process will involve the identijkation of a set of minimum competencies, and the development
and conduct of an integrated training package. In addition, the project will support an on-the-
job mentoringprogram to assist oficials to transfer skills to the workplace.


 Component2. OrganizationalRestructuringandResourceManagement

Total financing required:US$ 26.8 million
IDA Credit: US$ 21.5 million
 Government contribution: US$ 5.3 million

 This component is designed to underpin the technical system and procedural changes, and the
 ICT developments, which will be financed under the project and will assist the GDVC to develop
 a modern organizational structure and strengthen its human, financial and physical resource
 capacity.




                                                33

Sub-component2.1. OrganizationalRestructuring

The GDVC currently operates at a three-level organizational structure consisting o f headquarters,
cityhegion and branch level offices. While the structure itself i s sound, there i s a need to
improve control and communication between the central administration and the operational
interfaces o f the organization. Given a profile o f the different workloads as measured interms o f
declarations processed, the size o f the labor force and revenue collections, it seems some
rationalization o fthe number o f cityhegional offices would be desirable inthe longer term. Such
a rationalization must, however, follow a detailed review and be phased in gradually, as and
when improvements in efficiency and effectiveness are achieved and in accordance with the
rollout o f the IT system.

The VCMP will support the conduct of a comprehensive assessment of the current structure and
the identijkation of any opportunitiesfor rationalization.

Inaddition to the above, it is proposed that the Headquarters structure needs to be reviewed to
ensure that the organizational model appropriately reflects the priorities and functional
responsibilities being developed under the project. This will require the strengthening o f some
departments and reductions in others, and adjustments to clarify roles and responsibilities and to
eliminate any functional overlaps.

The VCMP will support the review of the organizational structure and the development of a new
organizational model that reflects the new roles, responsibilities andpriorities of the GDVC. If
in following the review it is determined that some officials are surplus to requirements and
cannot be re-trained or redeployed within a reasonable timefiame, financing will be sought to
payfor redundancy packages (in line with governmentpolicies and guidelines).

Sub-component2.2. HumanResourceManagement

The GDVC does not maintain a dedicated human resource function and therefore key human
resource management issues are dealt with by a narrowly focused Personnel branch, and many
tasks are handled at the region and branch level.            It is important therefore that a more
comprehensive and strategic approach is taken to human resource management issues within the
GDVC. Areas in need o f special attention include HR records, personnel policies and practices,
performance management, and training and staff development.

The VCMP will support the provision of training and technical assistance to establish a robust
human resource managementfunctions in the GDVC. This will involve the development of a HR
strategic plan, the provision of a computerized HR system and database, the conduct of a
detailed staffing requirements assessment, and the development of new personnel policies and
practices (including recruitment, selection, mobility, remuneration, performance management
and separationhedundancy).

Sub-component2.3. HumanResourceDevelopment

Human Resource Development i s regarded as a critical component o f the VCMP. While specific
training and technical assistance activities have been identified to support specific component


                                                  34

activities, there i s a needto focus on developing a sustainable capacity for the GDVC to develop
and improve the competencies o f its officials. As such, the project will focus on improving the
capacity o f the Training Academy to meet the majority o f GDVC training and development
needs.     This will be achieved by developing and implementing a long-term `twinning'
arrangement with a specialist vocational training institute or similar organization. As a first
priority the project will finance the development o f a comprehensive training strategy, the
conduct o f a detailed training needs analysis, and the development o f a new training curriculum
addressing the GDVC's administrative, technical andmanagement development needs.

The VCMP will support the establishment of a twinning arrangement with an internationally
recognized provider of relevant vocational education designed to underpin the long-term
development of the Vietnam Customs College.

Sub-component2.4. FinancialResourceManagement

The GDVC does not maintain an effective Management Accounting function and this will be
required in order to improve the financial performance o f GDVC by developing a resource that
can provide financial cost information to enhance management decision-making. Likewise, the
Internal Audit Department does not perform conventional internal audit functions. Given the
overall expenditure o f over US$50 million annually and the devolved expenditure mechanisms,
it will be necessaryto strengthenthis function.

The VCMP will support the development of a strengthened management accounting capability
and the development of a sound internal auditfunction.

Sub-component2.5. PhysicalResources

The funding o f infrastructure maintenance is included inthe annual budget and capital funding
occurs mainly through an annual Government grant, though this i s relatively small at around
VND 10 billion per year. In certain circumstances, regional authorities may also provide
additional funding. A draft plan has been developed in December 2004, but not yet approved,
that quantifies the overall infrastructure development requirementsat approximately $80 million.
The current infrastructure development plan cannot be funded solely on the basis o f existing
revenue and grants from central and regional Government sources. It i s therefore proposed that
some support funding be included as part o f the project to assist in funding essential
infrastructure associated with implementation o f the ICT component.              Likewise, modern
contraband detection equipment, such as mobile x-ray scanners, will complement the risk
management systemto ensure certain cargo i s cleared without undue delay.

The VCMP will support modest infiastructure investments associated with the more effective
control of assets and equipment and the refurbishment of facilities necessary to ensure effective
security and maintenance of ICT investments made under the project. It will also finance the
procurement of contraband detection equipment including scanners.




                                                 35

Sub-component2.6. ManagementSupport and Governance


There is a need to develop a strategic planning capacity withinthe GDVC to manage the overall
Customs modernization process. It i s proposed to develop a professional planning management
capability by establishing a specific planning division under the direct supervision o f the Deputy
Director General responsible for modernization. The planning division will be responsible for
both project management and the equally important change management aspects associated with
project implementation.

The VCMP will support the establishment of a Planning Department and Change Management
Unit to ensure effective planning, sequencing and implementation of the changes being
introduced as apart of theproject and the wider modernization program

Many Customs administrations around the world have established client service standards
covering key operational activities and outputs from the organization.           Typically, service
standards will cover such issues as time for processing and release o f goods, time taken to
process tariff and classification advices, time taken to process refunds, time taken to hear appeals
against Customs decisions, etc.      Mechanisms need to be established to ensure operational
information on Customs' performance in respect to each o f the chosen standards i s captured in a
reliable and consistent manner across the country.         Regular reports must be produced and
Customs performance against the standards analyzed and reported to clients. A standard set o f
client service standards will be prepared covering all key service areas. The service standards
will be monitored andresults publishedat quarterly intervals.

In order to successfully manage a modern Customs administration it is necessary to have a
comprehensive understanding o f the complexity o f Customs operations and processes. Key
performance indicators should be developed to provide information on the organization's
Performance in areas such as imports, exports, transit, workload, workflow, compliance,
valuation, duties and taxes collected, etc. The Bank has funded the development o f a process for
measuring the time taken for the release o f goods; however, similar performance indicators
covering other core Customs functional responsibilities will have to be established, and
methodologies for data collection, analysis and reporting identified and implemented.

The VCMP will support the preparation and implementation of a series of client service
standards and performance indicators covering all key functions of the GDVC and the
identification of appropriate monitoring and reporting mechanisms.

Sub-component2.7. Integrity and GoodGovernance

The changes that will be introduced during the course o f the project will partially reduce the
integrity and governance risks by improving supervision and accountability and reducing
incentives for corruption. The nature o f Customs work does, however, entail a number o f
inherent risks and these need to be mitigated by the development and implementation o f a
comprehensive integrity/anti-corruption program based on the provisions o f the WCO's Revised
Arusha Declaration on Integrity inCustoms.



                                                  36

The VCMP will support the development and implementation of a national integrity development
plan.


Component3. Informationand CommunicationTechnology

Total financing required: US$ 41.4 million
IDA Credit: US$ 38.8 million
Government contribution: US$2.6 million

This component is designed to provide the GDVC with a modern ICT environment and
supporting infrastructure that will facilitate the adoption o f modern approaches to Customs
administration and will include: a) the development and implementation o f a comprehensive and
modern Management Information System that will support the redesignedcustoms processes, the
collection o f data for management, planning and statistics purposes, and improve access to
information for the public; b) the procurement of hardware necessary to support the national
rollout o f the new system; c) the funding o f appropriate telecommunications equipment and
infrastructure; d) support for the nation-wide rollout and the training o f customs officials at all
levels; and e) measures to improve the capacity o f GDVC to manage the new system and ICT
infrastructure.

Over the five years o f the project, this component will be divided into short- and medium-term
phases. The first phase will cover: (i) procurement o f computer and communications
                                           initial
equipment; (ii) procurement o f a core customs management information system; (iii) testing
                                                                                       pilot
and initial training on the customs software; (iv) procurement o f management systems and
development o f a Web Portal; and (v) planning the rollout o f the core customs software. The
second phase will cover: (i)  procurement o f regional and branch computer and communications
equipment; (ii) rollout o f regional and branch systems; (iii)
                                                             training o f nation-wide custom staff;
(iv) establishment of a post-implementation technical assistance unit at GDVC and; v) addition
o f functional improvements as they emerge from technical assistance components such as
improved information gathering and analysis.

Sub-component3.1. ManagementInformationSystems

Regarding the applications, this component will finance the development or acquisition o f
information systems to allow the implementation over the long-term of: (i)core customs
operations containing, among others, declaration processing, harmonized system tariff and
documentation control, determination o f customs value, control o f goods in transit, risk
management, production o f trade statistics and forecasts, broker applications, payments and
financial accounting; (ii)customs management containing, among others, human resources
management, payroll and assets management; and (iii)      the establishment of a Web Portal, to
provide access to information to the public and to allow communication and on-line processing
betweencustoms and the trade community.

Based on the previous experience of GDVC, the application to support the core business o f the
customs will, wherever possible, be the COTS (Commercial Off-The-Shelf) package which will



                                                  37

be a modern Customs Management System, targeted at collecting data directly from traders and,
by minimizing the keyed input at Branches and Regions, facilitating the work of Customs
Officers intheir monitoring and inspection roles. The applications will use Intranet and Internet
to connect all Customs departments and offices, Ministries, other border agencies, banks and
stakeholders from the trade andtransport communities.

Sub-components3.2. and3.3. Computer andTelecommunicationsEquipment

Regarding the hardware required for the M I S operation, the component will finance the
provision o f computer equipment for all levels at GDVC. All Regions, Branches and
Departments will be equippedwith a level o f computer equipment necessary to carry out the new
requirements of modernization. This will include PCs, printers, scanners, communications
equipment, security devices and software.

For the central level, the component will finance the procurement o f servers, (including backup
server),  database licensing and telecommunications equipment.         The procurement will be
undertaken in batches. The first batch o f general purpose workstations and similar equipment
could already be procured inthe initial phase o f the project.

Sub-component3.4. CapacityBuilding

The VCMP will finance the capacity building activities related to the implementation o f the
information systems. Technical assistance will be provided to the ICT unit at GDVC to
strengthen its management and technical skills in order to undertake the development and
implementation o f the new information systems.

Inaddition, the VCMP will finance training activities onnewapplications required to implement
the systems at central, regional and branch levels o f customs for technical staff and end-users
both incustoms and the private sector.

Sub-component3.5. NationwideImplementation

Under this sub-component, the project will finance the provision o f technical services to rollout
the systemto all the regions and Branches o fGDVC.

The services will include initialon-site technical assistance and establishment o f a unitto support
post implementation activities. These are large scale activities which will require extremely
 detailed planning, preparation and execution.

 Component4. ProjectManagementSupport

 Total financing required:US$ 4.6 million
 IDA Credit: US$ 3.0 million
 Government contribution: US$ 1.6 million




                                                 38

The VCMP is expected to be a large and complex undertaking requiring a significant degree o f
expertise both in project management and in project specific content.        To ensure effective
implementation o f project components, all activities and project inputs will need to be carefully
planned and scheduled to ensure optimal effectiveness. Likewise, timely and efficient overall
project management expertise and procurement experience will be required to ensure effective
andtransparent project implementation. Inmany cases, the project would benefit from accessto
international experience and advice and, while a significant amount o f short-term expert
assistance is provided for under the individual components, it i s considered essential that each
operational component be supported by a long-term in-country advisor responsible for the
overall coordination o f project activities and inputs. To ensure the advisors are able to work
effectively with their GDVC counterparts, they should be supported by locally engaged
administrative assistants/translators.

The VCMP willfinance the costs of an experienced international project management advisor
and experienced procurement, finance and disbursement specialists to assist the Project
Manager to implement all aspects of the project. Theproject will also finance the costs of an
interpreterhranslator and appropriate administrative assistance including office equipment, a
project vehicle and operating costsfor the PMU. Whilst specialist assistance is also requiredfor
the ICT component, this is providedfor and speciJed in the component itself




                                                 39

                              Indicative Cost   il)A Credit
                                                             Guvernniettt
Project Cost by C:omponent    Amount    YO01  Amount   %O of C`ontrihtitioit
                             (lMntn) total    ((IS$    IDA
                                               mn)    Credit  (1KS nin)

                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                         VIETNAM: Customs ModernizationProject

The Socialist Republic o f Vietnam, through its MOF, will be the Borrower for the International
Development Association (IDA) credit. The beneficiary will be the GDVC. Other beneficiaries
will be other Government Ministries, including the Committee on Fighting Against Smuggling,
Counterfeiting and Commercial Fraud; border agencies; and other stakeholders. Proposed
implementation arrangements include the following elements: (i)Customs Modernization
Steering Committee; and (ii) PMU.

(i) CustomsModernizationSteeringCommittee. Customsreformiscurrentlydirectedbya
Steering Committee, headed by the Vice Minister o f Finance, and implemented by an Executive
Committee, consisting o f representatives from the MOF, GDVC and related line ministries
(According to Decision No. 3219/QD-BTC dated Oct 5, 2004 o f Minister o f Finance). It is
proposed that the Steering Committee will: (i)    oversee the modernization process; (ii) provide
guidance to the P M U inproject implementation and the work o f the PMU; (iii)    co-ordinate with
other relevant institutions in Vietnam and businesses; and (iv) foster dialogue with the World
Bank.

(ii) ProjectManagementUnit. ItisproposedthattheProjectdirectoroftheVCMPbeone
o f the most senior members o f GDVC's Management, responsible for Customs modernization.
The Director should manage to make best use o f project outcomes to ensure effective and speedy
implementation. H e or she should attend all the CMSC Meetings and be empowered to make
decisions in relation to implementation o f the project. The Director will convene and chair
coordination meetings with other Ministries, agencies and stakeholders as required. The P M U
should include a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Specialist, a Financial Management
Specialist, an ICT Specialist and a Customs / Business Process Specialist, as well as support
administrative personnel. It i s considered that the existing Project Preparation Unit (PPU) could
form the core o f the proposed PMU, thus ensuring continuity, but it will need to be strengthened
with additional resources, including international consultancy and technical expertise. The PMU
will cover procurement, loan management and reporting functions acceptable to IDA. The P M U
will coordinate the project management, prepare terms o freference, hire consultants and contract
for services, training and goods as necessary for the implementation o f the project.




                                                 41

             Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                          VIETNAM: Customs ModernizationProject

A. FinancialManagementArrangements

Country Issues: Among the key findings o f the 2001 CFAA that are relevant to financial
management (FM) aspects o f the Project are the following: (a) Reports from the public
expenditure accounting system attempt to capture data in too much detail, while management
reports for effective decision-making are not widely used; (b) As the requirements o f public
expenditure accounting are very comprehensive and detailed, compliance with the requirements
is challenging for all units particularly at lower levels; and (c) As accounting staff focus on more
easily accomplished requirements like mechanical verification o f payments and receipts, regular
and efficient monitoring o f State budget information for effective use o f public funds is not
always carried out in a timely manner.          The CFAA also reports that `the current budget
arrangement in Vietnam suffers from a lack o f transparency for the achievement o f objectives'.
The conclusion o f the CFAA report is that there is a certain degree o f fiduciary risk inthe use o f
public resources, although overall, the fiduciary risk for this project i s manageable for on-budget
items considering the steps that are envisionedto be taken under the financial management plan.

Strengths and Weaknesses, and Risk Analysis: Although GDVC has been implementing
some internationally funded projects, their experience with Bank-financed projects and with
Bank financial management requirements i s quite limited. At the time o f project appraisal, the
Project Preparation Unit (PPU, which is slated to become the Project Management Unit, or
PMU, as the Credit becomes effective) has been recruiting a financial specialist whose
qualifications and experience meet minimum IDA requirements. The PPU also has for its use an
accounting software package capable o f recording transactions by project, expenditure category,
project components and funding source. However, there still i s a requirement to carry out
additional set-up work with this software package to make it ready for the project. In summary,
the key weaknesses are: (i)   lack o f understanding o f IDA procedures and requirements on FM,
and o f disbursement procedures; and (ii)   missingkey steps inthe set-up o f the computerized FM
system that will facilitate periodic and annual financial reporting purposes. An Action Plan has
beendeveloped to address the weaknesses and improve the FM capacity o f the PPU/PMU. It is
attached at the end o fthis annex.

ImplementationArrangements: As stated above, a PMU will be established in GDVC which
will undertake preparation, implementation, and monitoring o f activities under the Customs
Modernization Project. This P M U will be the successor to the already existing PPU. A Special
Account will be opened and operated by the P M U to facilitate payments for project activities.

Staffing: At the time o f appraisal, a financial officer and an accounting assistant are being
recruited by the PMU. Although the proposed individuals have skills and experience meeting
minimum IDA requirements, additional training and support would be given to them by the
Bank's project team and a consultant, to improve their capacity for the expected duties.

AccountingPoliciesand Procedures: The PMUwould use the accounting system promulgated
under Decision #214 from the Ministryo f Finance. Under that accounting system, sub-accounts


                                                  42

flexibly record project expenditures by expenditure category or by project component. A chart
of accounts will be developed to accommodate the capture o f expenditure data classified by
project components and expenditure categories.

Reportingand Monitoring: The PMUwould be responsible for preparation o f financial reports
on activities in the Special Account. The financial statements will be prepared in compliance
with international and national standards. Beside that, the P M U would prepare the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to meet practical monitoring requirements. A set o f FMR formats
will be agreed upon during negotiations. The FMRs should be part of the periodic Progress
Reports submittedby the PMU. Normally, these FMRswould include:

    0   Sources and Uses o f Fundsby expenditurecategory;
    0  Uses o f Fundsby project activities/components;
    0   Special Account Statement;
    0   Implementation Progress by contract (combined with Contract Monitoring);
    0   Procurement Process Monitoring.

B. DisbursementArrangements

Allocation of Loan Proceeds: Funds from the IDA credit (US$ 65.9 million) will be disbursed
against: (i)   100% of foreign expenditure or 100% of local expenditure (ex-factory cost) for
goods; (ii) o f local expenditure for other items procured locally; (iii) o f expenditureo f
            90%                                                          95%
civil works; and (iv) 100% of expenditurefor Consultants' services.


          Categorv              Amount of the     Percent         % of Expenditureto be
                               CreditAllocated     intotal               Financed
                                  (US$ Mn)

(1) Works                             2'2            3.3                    95%
(2) Goods                            46.1            70.0      100% of foreign expenditure,
                                                               100%o f local expenditure (ex-
                                                              factory cost) and 90% o f
                                                              expenditurefor other items
                                                              procured locally
(3) Consultants' Services             8.9            13.5                   100%
(4) Costs o f roll-out of             3.6             5.5                   100%
Customs operations systems
(5) Training                          4.0             6.1                   100%
(6) Incremental Operating              1.1            1.7                   100%
costs

           TOTAL                     65.9           100.0




                                               43

Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): For works costing less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent per contract, goods costing less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, services
provided by consulting firms costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract and services
provided by individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract,
withdrawals under the Credit Agreement would be made on the basis o f statements o f
expenditure, normally via the Special Account. The related payment documents will be made
available for the required audits, as well as to the Bank supervision missions upon request. All
other expenditure above the SOE thresholds will be submitted on the basis o f full documentation.

SpecialAccount: A Special Account (SA) would be opened for the P M U ina commercial bank
with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and with an authorized allocation o f US$ 1
million equivalent. Replenishment applications should be submitted monthly or whenever 30%
or more o f the authorized allocation has been drawn from the account, whichever occurs first.
For withdrawals outside the Special Account (applications for direct payment or for issuance o f
Special Commitments) a minimum application value o f 20% o f the authorized allocation o f the
Special Account would be observed. To speed up project implementation, retroactive financing
would be permitted to the extent o f US$ 200.000 equivalent for payments made prior to the date
o f the Credit Agreement but after the appraisal date o f April 28, 2005, for contracting urgently
required goods, works and consultant services.        The procurement procedures shall be in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines in order for the eventual contracts to be
eligible for Bank retroactive financing, and the normal review process by the Bank shall be
followed.

FundsFlow: This is a traditional investmentproject. Accordingly, the P M U would be required
to check and approve expenses against their eligibility for project activities before making
payment from the Special Account.

C. Audit Arrangements

Financial statements o f the project would be prepared by the PMU on an annual basis. These
statements would be audited on an annual basis in accordance with international auditing
standards and in compliance with the independent auditing regulations o f Vietnam.             The
auditor's reports will be made available to IDA within six months o f the close o f the fiscal year.
The auditor would express a single audit opinion covering the Project Accounts, the use o f SOEs
and the Special Account. A management letter addressing any internal control weaknesses o f the
implementingagencies (PMU and GDVC) will also be provided by the auditor together with the
audit report.

The P M U would select auditors for the project following IDA procurement procedures. The
TOR for the audit, as well as the auditor selected, must be acceptable to IDA.




                                                 44

Attachment - Action Plan on Financial Management

         Weaknesses                             Action                  By whom  Bywhen
(i)Lack of understanding of PMU to hire a consultant to develop a PPU/PMU       Negotiation
IDA procedures/ requirements project FM manual. Training should also
on F M and disbursement.     be provided by the consultant for PMU's
                              staff.

(ii)Lack of sufficient set-up PMUtomaketherequiredadditionaleffort PPUPMU       Negotiation
of the current computerized to set up its current FM software to
system to facilitate periodic facilitate quarterly and annual financial
and      annual     financial reporting purposes for both IDA and the
reporting.                    Government of Vietnam.




                                                  45

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                          VIETNAM: Customs ModernizationProject

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
'Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' dated May 2004, `Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers' dated May 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different expenditure
categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the Credit, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification if
any, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame have been agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank inthe project's Procurement Planreferred to inSection C below.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under financing from the Credit will be for urgent
interior remodeling and refurbishment o f the GDVC office and computer space. All related
procurement will fall well under the threshold US$2 million each for which N C B may be used
based on the sample Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) agreed with the Bank. Contracts
below US$30,000 each may be procured using shopping procedure and documents agreed with
the Bank. Local funding and procurement procedures, i.e., no funds from the Credit, will be
used for all other work towards modernizing the buildinginfrastructure o f Vietnam Customs.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procured under this project will include (i) acquisition and
                                                                                the
adaptation (or the development) o f a new Management Information System (MIS) that will
integrate the support o f Customs processes, the collection o f trade and other operational data, the
management and administration o f Customs, and a web site and services for the public; (ii)
upgrades in computer hardware and network infrastructure to support the operation o f this new
system nation-wide; and (iii) massive technical services needed to support the nation-wide
                                the
roll-out o f the systemand the training o f users. Other goods procurement will be for investments
related to new or refurbished buildings (such as furniture), special equipment facilitating the
customs inspection function (such as vehicle scanners, x-ray machines, CCTV systems and other
equipment supporting inspection and enforcement), and office equipment and computers needed
by the Project Management Unit. The overwhelming majority o f goods will be procured under
I C B using the Bank's SBDs. In accordance with their suitability for a specific procurement
package, SBDs for the I C B procurement o f Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
include the harmonized SBD for Goods, the SBD for the Supply and Installation o f Information
Systems (single- and two-stage), the RFP approach and any new SBD as may be available at the
time o fthe actual procurement inline with the Bank's guidance for ICTprocurement.

I C B as detailed above will be used for all goods procurement packages above US$lOO,OOO each.
Packages under US$100,000, but above US$20,000 each, and meeting the related conditions
stipulated inthe Guidelines may be procured by NCB. Packages below US$20,000 each may be
procured via shopping procedures.

Once the functional specifications for the MIS have been firmed up based on thorough market
analysis, the Borrower will make a determination on whether the MIS system i s to be procured



                                                  46

as one package or as two separate packages (software and implementation). Procurement will be
conducted competitively, unless a case can be made, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines,
that direct contracting/single source selection from non-commercial or private entities presents
clear advantages over competition.      The final decision on the procurement method during
implementation will be subject to the Bank / RPMprior review and approval.

Procurementof Non-ConsultingServices: N o procurementis foreseen underthis category.

Selection of Consultants: Consulting services will be requiredinall components of the project.
Notably, these services will be required for analytical, training and implementation work on
improvements to the legal framework, organizational processes, development o f human
resources and management capacity (including short-term capacity enhancements for managing
the project and especially its ICT component).         Mostly, firms will be selected for these
assignments under QCBS and QBS procedures. Some assignments will be structured in two
phases, with the possibility to engage the consultants selected for Phase 1to continue their work
inPhase 2 if this is conducive. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO each may be
procured through selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQS). Where appropriate for
the task, international and local specialists may also be engaged as individual consultants. For
some o f the training design and delivery, it will be advantageous for the project to allow the
consideration o f Vietnamese academic and other government training institutions which may
uniquely be suited to take on this work. In this case, selection could be made among local
academic govemment institutions or by direct contracting subject to the Bank's prior agreement.
While this may happen for a number o f assignments, they will each individually be modest in
cost.   As for twinning partners, selection could be possibly limited to single-sourcing, as
vocational education institutions with skills and curricula in customs administration are still very
few inthe world. There will be full, prior approval and review by the Bank iflimitedor single-
source selection will be indicated.

Operating Costs: Operating costs, except the salaries o f career civil servants assigned to the
project, will be financed by the project and procured usingthe PMU's administrative procedures
which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. Items suitable for procurement as works
or goods, such as purchases o f computer and office equipment or vehicles, will be procured by
the methods mentioned above. Most o f the operating expenses, however, will be claimed against
the Credit via statements o f expenditures.       These costs may include office consumables,
communications (telephone, Internet subscriptions), office and other rentals, fuel, domestic travel
and subsistence costs incurred by project personnel (civil servants and consultants) related to
piloting and rollout o f the MIS, travel and subsistence costs o f officials attending training, and
any similar operating costs. However, these provisions will not preclude the Government to
provide for some or all o f these costs from counterpart funds. The wages o f required local
support personnel o f the PMU - as far as possible already itemized and budgetedin Component
4 - may also be financed under this category.

Others: The project foresees the possibilities of study tours, and o f staging workshops and
conferences (in Vietnam) or attending conferences abroad to discuss progress and emerging
results o f the project. The project also includes an allocation to finance severance payments that




                                                 47

could result from the organizational restructuring o f Vietnam Customs. Related costs may be
covered by the Credit subject to the Bank's prior agreement ineach case.


B. Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to ImplementProcurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by a Project Management Unit (PMU) which will be
the successor, in an upgraded manner, of the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) which already
operates with the support o fthe project's PHRD grant.

The capacity o f the PPU/PMU to implement procurement actions for the project was assessed
during the pre-appraisal mission. The organizational placement o f the unit within GDVC, its
authority to conduct project activities, and its current staffing were found adequate for project
preparation but not adequate for project implementation.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation o f the project have been
identifiedand include: (i) absence o f a formally established project implementation agency,
                             the
as this agency i s normally only established after the Government's approval o f the project; (ii)
inadequate procurement and technical capacity o f the PPU which i s expected to become the
P M U for the project; and (iii) unfamiliarity o f the PPU and GDVC with the Bank's procurement
policies and procedures. The main corrective measures which have beenagreed are:

       Formal establishment o f the P M Uby November 2005.
       Staffing the P M U with one to two procurement officers by December 2005.
       Technical Assistance on procurement: an international procurement expert with special
       expertise inICT procurement will be recruited. While not working full-time for the
       project, this expert will be available at all critical procurement steps, and particularly in
       the first years o f implementation, notably preparation o f the key bidding documents for
       the information system and consulting services, bidevaluation, and contract supervision.
       Training for the PMU's procurement officers inthe Bank's guidelines and SBDs through
       course attendance as available inthe region and beyond.
       Procurementtraining for other staff o f the PMU and GDVC staff involved inproject
       activities, as may be available inHanoi from the Bank's procurement specialists.

The overall project risk for procurement is medium.

C. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods and specific SBDs expected to be used. This plan
has been agreed between the Borrower and the Project Team and i s available at the PPU / PMU.
It will also be available in the project's database and in the Bank's external website. The
Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to
reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.




                                                   48

   D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

   Inaddition to the requiredprior procurement reviewsto be carried out by the Project Team, the
   capacity assessment o f the PPU indicates the need for annual procurement supervision missions
   to update the PMUprocurement capacity assessment and carry out post reviews.

   Inview of the special review needs of ICT-related procurement inthe project, the Project Team
   plans to keep access available to specialized expertise in ICT procurement, including this
   expertise insupervisionmissions from time to time as needed.

   E. Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

   1. Goods andWorks

   (a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:

1        2             3          4              5       6          7             8         a
Ref.     Contract      Estimated  Procurement Pre-       Dom. Pref. Bank Review    Exp. Bid-  Comments
No.      Description   Cost (US$) Method         Qual.   (yesho)    (Prior/Post)   Opening
                                                                                   Date
1        Container     10,000,000 ICB            No      No         Prior         NOV-2006    Procuredin
         scanners                                                                  for first  one or two
                                                                                  package     packages
2    I   X-ray        I 2,200,000 ICB            No      No         Prior          NOV-2006
         machines                               I     I
3        CCTV         I 3,300,000 ICB           INo     1No         Prior          NOV-2006
         systems
4    I1I1Customs Op.  I 9,900,000 ICB (possible  No      No         Prior          Feb-2007    Multi-year
         Software                 alternatives:                                                contract
         package and              RFP or direct
         adapt./maint.            contracting),
                                  as explained
                                   insectionA

5        MISandweb      1,500,000                                   Prior          Feb-2007    Optionally,
         site                                                                                  either
         development                                                                           combined
                                                                                               with No. 4
                                                                                               or split into
                                                                                               two
                                                                                              packages
6        Computer      13,300,000                                   Prior          Feb-2007    Several
         equipment                                                                 for first   packages
                                                                                   Package     over the
                                                                                               duration o f
                                                                                               the project
7        Telecomm.      5,100,000  ICB           No      No         Prior          Mar-2007    Optionally,
         Equipment                                                                             combined
                                                                                               with No.6




                                                     49

8    Nationwide            3,570,000   ICB (possible   No     No          Prior          Mar-2007     Could be
     impl. support                     alternative:                                                   bidas two
     (`rollout')                       RFP)                                                            or three
                                                                                                       slices

 (b) Procurementunder ICB for contracts estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and
  all direct contracting will be subject to prior reviewby the Bank.

 2. ConsultingServices

  (a) List o f consulting assignments requiring short-list o f intemational firms.

     1     12                      13              4
           I                       I
     Ref.      Description of        Estimated     Selection   Bank          Exp. Date of  Comments
     No.       Assignment            cost (US%)    Method      Review        Proposals
                                                               (PriorRost)   Submission

     1          Strategylmeasure          542,000  QCBS        Prior         Jan-2006      Possibly intwo

            I  for intervention by                                                         phases
               exception
   II2      III dev.
               Reengineering&      I    1,009,900  QCBS        Prior        IJan-2006      Possibly intwo
                     ofbidding                                                             phases
                document for       I1
                CustomsInf. Sys.
   I 3      I  Improving                  352,500   QCBS       Prior         Feb-2006      Possibly intwo
               transparencyand     I                                                       phases

                Improvingthe              342,650   QCBS       Prior        IFeb-2006     I Possibly intwo
                support to                                                                  phases
                compliance and
                enforcement
                HumanResources            250,250   QCBS       Prior         Feb-2006
               management
                strategy, and
                policies
                improvement
     6          Human Resources    I     1,591,700  QCBS (or,  Prior          Feb-2006      Likely phased
                                                    possibly
                                                    QBS, or
                                                    directly
                                                    contracted
                                                    twinning)

  (b) Inaddition, all consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract for
  firms, or US$50,000 for individuals, and all single source selection of consultants (firms) will be
  subject to prior review by the Bank.

  (c) Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per
  contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions of
  paragraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.




                                                            50

                               Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                             VIETNAM: CustomsModernizationProject

The objective o f the customs modernization project in Vietnam is to improve the effectiveness
and efficiency o f customs operations. It i s possible and important to examine the feasibility o f
the project, financially and economically. The financial analysis considers whether the project
generates fiscal revenues that are higher than the project costs in discounted and real terms.
However, it does not necessarily indicate ifthe project i s welfare-enhancing.                    Onthe other hand,
the cost-benefit analysis or the economic analysis, estimates how much the Vietnamese society
would gain from the project - economically - if pure fiscal transfers are excluded. The
calculation o f the net economic benefits requires that improvements in both effectiveness and
efficiency o f customs operations be measured.

A.      FinancialAnalysis

Methodology:

The financial analysis attributes to the inflows and outflows under `with' and `without' (or
counterfactual) project scenarios. The analysis i s conducted from two different perspectives.
The analysis from the Total Investment Point o fView (TIPV) does not consider the impact o fthe
loan financing with the impliedassumption that the N P V o f the debt financing i s 0. The analysis
from the TIPV examines if the project i s financially and commercially feasible when 100% o f
the project investment is made from the project owner: effectively, the analysis isolates any
confounding impact o f the loan financing on the project's financial outcomes. On the other
hand, the analysis from the Vietnamese Government's Point o f View incorporates the favorable
terms o f the IDA loan.

Key Assumptions:

Qualitative Assumptions: Financial benefits from a Customs modernization project are multiple.
Better customs practices will result in lowering the rate o f smuggling so that a larger share o f
total imports is subjected to the statutory import duties.                    In addition, it would improve the
valuation, classification and weight o f imports declared at customs, and lead to better
management o f special import regimes (e.g., exemptions, drawback and temporary admission
system), the misuse o f which often leads to revenue leakages. Further, improved coordination
between DGT and DGC i s expected to enhance enforcement as well as refund audits related to
the administration o f the value added tax and income tax.




 For example, the increased revenues due to improved enforcement are vital for the government's consideration o f
whether the project will yield an internalrate o f return (IRR) that i s equal or higher than the opportunity cost o f fund
or the discount rate; and yet, these revenues only represent fiscal transfers from the trading community to the
government and thus are excluded from the economic analysis.


                                                            51

Taxes on Imports: The exercise estimates the taxes on imports2 expected to be raised `with' the
project and compares these with the counterfactual (i.e., the taxes on imports that would have
been raised in the absence o f the project). In the case o f Vietnam, even in the absence o f the
project, taxes on imports will be affected by a number o f factors that will impact on the effective
tax rate on imports:

(i)     The trend towards multilateral and regional trade liberalization. Membership inthe WTO
        and ASEAN will cause tariffs to be gradually lowered and will require customs to
        implement some new customs practices, with the Valuation Agreement being amongst
        the more important ones.
(ii)    Shiftinthe import structure. The structure of imports may shift over time so that a higher
        share o f total imports will be subjected to either higher or lower statutory duties and
        taxes.
(iii)   Growth o f import base. The import base will increase with economic growth.
(iv)    Better enforcement. Vietnamese authorities may well undertake some initiatives that
        result inbetter control over the import tax base, inthe absence o fthe project.

The calculation o f the financial rate o f return implies that one needs to isolate the impact o f
future import tax revenues due to these various factors from the impact o f the project
implementation.

Investment Time and Project Life: For the purpose o f the analysis, the calculation assumes the
project life o f 12 years, starting from Year 0 (2005), with five years o f investment and seven
years o f full-scale operation. The assumption i s based on the international experience o f the
effective life o f a Customs modernization project.                  Also, it i s expected that from Year 12
onward, the discounted flow o f benefits (at 10% real discount rate) will be virtually offset by the
discounted flow of the annual maintenance costs; and hence the net discounted financial gains
after the first 12 years o f the project life will drop to practically nil.

Inflation: For our analysis, the annual inflationrate inUS$is assumed at 3%.3

Quantitative Assumptions: The financial benefits o f the project are estimated on the basis o f
revenue data presented in the Diagnostic Report by Scott Wilson as part o f the TA for the
preparation o f the project (February 2005) as well as data from MOF. As a first step, a
benchmark `without project' revenue stream i s constructed for VAT, import and export taxes,
and excise on imports. Innominal US$ terms, total revenues increase at 9% per annum between
2006-2010 and then slow to 8% per annum over the next six years. Next, three scenarios are
constructed for the impact o f the project on revenues. In the Base Case Scenario, revenues
gradually rise above the `without project' benchmark stream reaching a level that is 2% higher


  The term `taxes on imports' refer to all taxes collected on imports. In Vietnam, the Customs currently collects
value added taxes and excise on imports, trade taxes, applicable fees and fines. For the VAT, Customs collects the
VAT on imports, but the DGT administers the VAT refunds and hence is responsible for all refund audits.

3 There are basically two schools o f thought inthe use o f the currency unit for project evaluation. One i s for the use
o f domestic currency, whereas the other favors the application o f foreign currency. In evaluating the financial and
economic impact o f this project, we have used US$ uniformly and hence consistently applied US$ inflation
throughout the analysis.


                                                          52

by 2011. This higher level o f 2% is then maintained for the next five years. Inthe low andhigh
case scenarios, the corresponding percentages are 1.3%and 2.7% respectively.

 Table 1:Pro-FormaCashFlow Statement fromVietnameseGovernment's PointofView
                             andfrom the TotalInvestmentPointofView
                                                                                                   Unit: US$ million



Project year                           0      1       2       3        4     5       6     7    8       9 1 0 1 1

Inflows                                       3      11      19       39   41       65    6a   71     75    7a   a2

     Improvedrevenue generation               3      11      19       39   41       65    68   71     75    7a   a2
Outflows                               5     19.     30      16        3   20       22    22   22     22    22   22
     Investment(IDA and government)    5     19.     30      16        3

     Service charge                  0.03   0.15   0.34     0.43    0.44  0.43    0.41   0.40 0.39   0.38  0.36 0.33

     Commitmentfees                  0.22   0.15   0.06     0.01
     Recurrentcosts                                                    -    20      22    22   22     22    22   22

NCF,w/o financing, undiscounted       (5)   (16)   (19)        2      36    21      43     46   49     52    56   60

     Debt Cash Flow                     4     17     25       14       3      -                         -   (2)  (2)

NCF,with financing, undiscounted      (1)      0       6      16      38     21     42     45   49     52    54   58
Financial NPV
     wlo financing @lo%             $139million [Real financialNPV from the total investmentpoint of view]
     with financing @10?40          $187million [RealfinancialNPV from Government'spoint of view]
Financial IRR
     wlo financing                  47%         [Real financial IRR from the total investmentpoint of view]
     with financing                 276%        [Realfinancial IRR from Government's point of view]



Outcome:

Table 1 presents the pro-forma financial cash flow o f the project. The results indicate that the
VCMP i s financially desirable from both the Vietnamese Government's perspective (with
consideration o f the favorable impact o f the IDA loan investment financing) or from TIPV
(without consideration o f the impact o f the subsidized IDA loan). From the Government's point
o f view, the project's financial internal rate o f return (IRR) in real US$ is at 276%, and the net
present value (NPV) at 10% discount i s substantial, at more than US$187 million. Even when
the favorable impact of the IDA loan is left out o f the financial analysis (i.e., analysis from the
TIPV), the project is still highly financially desirable: the real financial IRR i s 47%, and the
financial N P V at 10% discount reaches approximately US$139 million.




                                                       53

                                       Table 2: SensitivityAnalysis


        Increasein revenue
           without project              Financialanalysis       Financialanalysis from
        benchmarkrevenue                     from TIPV           Government'sPOV
          stream (in 2011)

                                         IRR      NPV(US$          IRR       NPV(US$
                                        (in %)      million)      (in%)       million)
                 1.3%                     173          96           27           48
                2.0%                     276           187          47           139
                2.7%                     381           278          65           230

B.     EconomicAnalysis

Methodology:

The cost-benefit analysis excludes debt financing and all the financial benefits that are critical for
the government budget(higher tax collection due to better enforcement, for example) but simply
represents pure financial transfer from one economic agent (trader) to the other (government). It
considers only the real economic welfare-impacting costs and benefits.

Economic benefits for the VCMP are multiple. However many are not easily quantifiable.
Some o f the major economic benefits may include: (i)        cost reduction or savings to the trader that
ensue from the better customs practices; and (ii)         the trade expansion that results from greater
trade competitiveness, permitting greater specialization along comparative advantage lines and
reaping dynamic advantages o f greater trade openness.

Assumptions:

(i)    Trade expansion over the period o f the VCMP: Time series data for the period o f 1990-
       2003 (World Development Indicator 2004) indicate that the Vietnamese nominal GDP at
       market price grew at an average annual rate o f 8.2%.              The import to GDP ratio has
       gradually risen over the years and in2003 stood at 65'30,after a sharp rise inrecent years.
       One can assume that this ratio remains unchanged or that it rises f ~ r t h e r .Underthe base
                                                                                            ~
       line assumption, this ratio i s maintained at 65%.

(ii)   Five percent o f imports enter Vietnam though land borders, 25% through airports and
       70% through ports.

(iii)  Time release data for ports and land crossings are drawn from the study on Performance
       Indicators Measurement undertaken by Lyubka Milhailova (April 2004).                         At land


  Between 1980 and 2002103 that ratio rose from 54% to 95% inMalaysia, from 28% to 50% inthe Philippines and
from 30% to 58% in Thailand.



                                                       54

         borders, release time is 2:23 hours with customs responsible for 2 hours. At ports, the
         release time was estimated at 8.4 days, with customs responsible for 2.3 days. The base
         line estimate examines the impact o f reducing the release time, accountable to customs
         operations only, according to the objectives o f the project.

         The transaction costs o f trade are closely related to the release time o f cargo at customs.
         The OECD estimates suggest that, on average, reducing the release time by one day is
         equivalent to lowering the cargo cost by 0.5%. In addition traders incur direct costs o f
         preparing the customs declaration.

         Two scenarios o f the flow o f economic analysis are considered. The Base Case Scenario
         considers only the economic benefits generated from the reduction in clearance time due
         to improved Customs procedures alone. Scenario 2 estimates the project's economic
         benefits, taking into account boththe welfare-enhancing impact o f the project reflected in
         improved Customs procedures and reduction in overall release time that will ensue from
         the improved synergy between customs and other border agencies. For instance the
         release time at post i s estimated at 8.4 days, with customs responsible for 2.3 days.
         Scenario 2 assumes that the overall release time, for which customs are not directly
         responsible, will also be reduced. The reduction inclearance time inboth Base Case and
         Scenario 2 follow the same schedule. The clearance time at road i s reduced by 12% by
         the end o f Year 3 o f the project, and by 25% at the end o f Year 6, relative to the current
         level. After this period, the clearance time flattens out. For ports and airports, a greater
         reduction in clearance times i s assumed: a 20% reduction by the end o f Year 3, and 45%
         reduction at the end o f Year 6.5

Outcome:

Table 3 presents the results o f the economic analysis applied to the Base Case Scenario. The
project i s economically desirable. The real economic IRR i s at 156%, and the real economic
N P V attains at more than US$705 million. The net economic outcome under Scenario 2 that
incorporates the estimated economic benefits o f the project due to the improved operation o f the
Customs as well as the strengthened coordination between Customs and border agencies are
significantly higher. In Scenario 2, the real economic IRR i s 531%, and the real economic NPV
i s more than US$2.6 billion.

The results from both scenarios -the Base Case Scenario and Scenario 2-are                         robust and are to
be considered as the lower bound estimates o f the positive net economic gains. A number o f
other economic benefits have been omitted from the analysis due to the lack o f available data,
and their consideration would have increased further the economic benefits of the project. Such
benefits may result from the second round effect o f trade expansion on economic growth that
would increase the import share o f GDP beyond the 65% level retained inthis calculation. Also,
lower clearance time for exports and reduction in direct cost to traders of preparing customs


  Effectively, inYear 11, the clearance time i s reduced to 75% of the time required prior the project, and it is
reduced to 56% for the Customs clearance at port and airport. The analysis models the expectation that after seven
full-operation years, the improvement in release time that can be affected directly by customs improvements is
assumed to have come to an end.


                                                           55

declarations, expected under the project, would generate additional economic benefits.        In
conclusion, the robust outcomes o f both financial and economic analyses confirm that the project
generates net financial gains to Vietnam and i s welfare-enhancing.




                                                 56

    Table3: EconomicAnalysis: EconomicPro-FormaCashFlow -Base Case Scenario
                                                                     Unit: US$ million
Projectyear                       0    1   2   3  4   5   6    7   8  9 1 0 1 1


Inflows                                8  336 72 109 150 191 201 211 222    233   245
  EconomicBenefits*               0 '  8   36 72 109 150 191 201 211 222    233   245
outflows                          5   20   29 18  4  20  22   22  22 22     22      22
  Investment(IDA andgovernment)   5   20   29 18  4
  Recurrentcosts                  0    0    0  0  0  20  22   22  22  22     22     22
EconomicNCF, undiscounted        (5) (12)   7 54 104 130 169 179 189 200    211   223
EconomicNPV @lo%                703
EconomicIRR                    152%




                                            57

                             Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                       VIETNAM: Customs ModernizationProject

There are no safeguard policy issues that needto be considered.




                                               58

                       Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                         VIETNAM: CustomsModernizationProject

                                                 Planned                      Actual
PCNreview                                     March 17 2004               March 17 2004
Initial PID to PIC                           March16,2005                 March 16,2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                          March 16,2005                March 16,2005
Appraisal                                     April 20,2005                April 20,2005
Negotiations                                   June 6,2005                October 11,2005
Boardapproval                                 July 12,2005              November 10,2005
Planned date of effectiveness                January 1,2006
Planned date of mid-termreview               March 25,2008
Planned closing date                          June 30,201 1

Key InstitutionsResponsiblefor Preparationof the Project:

The Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, i s responsible for
coordinating preparation of the VCMP. The MOF has received a Policy and Human Resource
Development Grant (PHRD) for the project preparation from the Government of Japan, through
the World Bank's Trust Fund TF 053144 for US$996,500. This Grant is being used for project
preparation by the recipient to contract consulting services for the following preparation
activities: (i)
              reviewing the Customs legislations (includingthe Customs Code of 2000) with the
objective of proposing how the current legislation could be adjusted to ensure consistency with
the forthcoming WTO membership and the best Customs practices as articulated inthe WCO's
RevisedKyoto Convention; (ii)undertaking a comprehensive diagnostic review of the Customs
administration in Vietnam, its organization, resources and operations; (iii)preparing a new
business model for Customs in Vietnam that reflects the mission, objectives, context and
principles in the new Customs Management System (CMS);             (iv) detailed modernization
strategic plan for Customs modernization;     (v) detailed project implementation plan;     (vi)
preparing bidding documents for the procurement during the initial six to 12 months of the IDA-
financed project. The activities are underway and will be completed by the date of the Board
presentation.

BankStaff and ConsultantsWho Worked on the ProjectIncluded:

            Name                              Title                                Unit
Duc MinhPham                 Senior Economist, Task Team Leader                  EASPR
GerardMcLinden               Senior Trade FacilitationSpecialist                 PRMTR
Michel Zarnowiecki           Senior Customs Specialist                           TUDTR
Vivek Suri                   Senior Economist                                    EASPR
Thang Chien Nguyen           Senior. Procurement Specialist                      EAPCO
Hoi-ChanNguyen               Senior Counsel                                      LEGEA
Tuan MinhL e                 Public Finance Economist                            PRMPS
Deepak Bhatia                Manager                                              ISGIA
Henry Forero                 ICT Specialist                                       ISGIA
Hung Viet L e                Financial Management Specialist                     EACVF


                                               59

Quyen Do Duong             DisbursementOfficer        EACVF
NganThuy Nguyen            Project Assistant          EACVF
Luc De Wulf                Consultant
FredrichKonigshofer        Consultant
LyubkaMihailova            Consultant

Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources: US$391,000
   2. Trust funds:
   3. Total: US$391,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$30,000
   2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$l50,000




                                            60

                     Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                   VIETNAM: Customs ModernizationProject

1.  PHRD Grantproposal-approved
2.  PHRD GrantAgreement (TF 053144)
3.  Terms of Referencefor PHRD GrantAssignments
4.  PHRD GrantContracts
5.  WorldBank MissionAide Memoirs
6.  Correspondencewith the Government




                                      61

                                                        Annex 13: Statement ofLoanand Credits
                                                           IDA Credits in the OperationsPortfolio
                                                                        (as ofSeptember 30, 2005)

                                                                                                                              Difference
                                                                                                                                 between            LastARPP
                                                                                            Original Amount                    actual and      supervisionratings bi
                                                                                             in US$million                      expected
Credit    Fiscal                                                                                           Cancel-     Undis-   disburse- Development Implementation
$0        Year Borrower Purpose                                              IBRD               IDA         lations    bursed mentS ("0) ai objectives       Progress
Eighteencredits closed
                             Sub-Total                                                       2034.71         - -
                                                                                                             85.58       0.00
On goingcredits
                          Energy
30340      1998    Govt   PowerTransmissionand Distribution                   0.00            199.00          0.00      94.10         44%       S               S
33580     2000     Govt   RuralEnergy                                         0.00            150.00          0.00      36.50          21%      S               S
36800     2002     Govt   EnergyEfficiency and Equitization                   0.00            225.00          0.00     201.40          71%      S               S
40000     2005     Govt   RuralEnergyI1                                       0.00            220.00          0.00     218.90          21%     na               na
41070     2006     Govt   2nd Transmissionand Distribution                    0.00            200.00          0.00     198.10            na    na               na
                          Transport
30000      1998    Govt   InlandWaterways                                     0.00             73.00          0.00      25.90          30%      S               S
31250      1999    Govt   UrbanTransport                                      0.00             42.74           8.19     11.30          42%      S               S
33060     2000     Govt   RuralTransport I1                                   0.00            103.90          0.00      21.30           19%     S               S
34480     2001     Govt   MekongTransport                                     0.00            110.00          0.00      79.10          58%      S               S
38430     2003     Govt   RoadNetwork Improvement                             0.00            225.30          0.00     215.00          68%      S               S
40730     2005     Govt   Road Safety                                         0.00             31.70           0.00     30.40            na    na               na
                          UrbanDevelopment
32110      1999    Govt   3 CitiesSanitation                                  0.00              80.50          0.00     48.60           55%     S                S
34750     2001     Govt   HCMC EnvironmentalSanitation                        0.00             166.30          0.00    159.80           80%     S                S
38870      2004    Govt   UrbanUpgrading                                      0.00            222.50           0.00    206.30           52%     S                S
40280      2005    Govt   Water SupplyDevelopment                             0.00             112.60          0.00    109.00         100%     na               na
41150      2006    Govt   RuralWater Supply& Sanitation                       0.00              45.90          0.00     45.50             na    na              na
                          ICT
41160      2006    Govt   ICT Development                                     0.00              93.70          0.00     94.00             na    na              na
                          Health
28080      1996    Govt   NationalHealth                                      0.00             10120           2.35     18.00           27%     S                S
36310      2002    Govt   RegionalBlood Transfusion                           0.00              38.20          0.00     41.30           88%     S                S
HI52       2005    Govt   HIV/AlDS prevention                                 0.00              35.00          0.00     33.50         100%      S                S
                          Education
31260      1999    Goa     HigherEducation                                    0 00              83.30          0.00     41.20           43%     S                S
35940      2002    Govt    PrimaryTeachersTraining                            0.00              19.84           0.00    18.00           75%     S                S
37520      2003    Govt    PrimaryEducationfor DisadvantagedCh                0.00             138.76           0.00   139.70           75%     S                S
40890      2005    Govt    TargetedBudgetSupportfor EFA                       0.00              50.00           0.00    47.80             na    na              na
                           PREM
37670      2003    Govt    Public FinancialManagement                         0.00              54.33           0 00    56.80           94%     S                S
40410      2005    Govt    Payment System&Bank Modemization                   0.00             105.00           0.00    98.20         100%      na               na
                           Rural Development
29960      1998    Govt    Forest Protection                                  0.00              21.50           0.00      9.90          40%     S                S
30990      1998    Govt    Agricultural Diversification                       0.00              66.85           0.00    21.40           30%     S                S
3 1980     1999    Govt    MekongDeltaWater                                   0.00             101.80           0.00    53.30           49%     S                S
32920      2000    Govt    CoastalWetlandsiProtection                         0 00              31.80           0.00     16.40          45%     S                S
35320      2001    Govt    CommunityBasedRuralInfrastructure                  0.00             102.80           0.00    81.80           44%      S               S
35720      2002    Govt    UorthemMountainsPov. Reduction                     0.00             110.00           0.00    77.10           29%      S               S
36480      2002    Govt    RuralFinanceI1                                     0.00             200.00           0.00    84.60          -64%      S               S
38800      2004    Govt    Water ResourcesAssistance                          0.00             157.80           0.00    148.10          17%      S               S
39530      2005    Govt    Forest Sector Development                          0.00              39.50           0.00    39.10          -32%      S               S
39690      2005    GOM Avian InfluenzaEmergencyRecovery                        0.00              5.00           0.00      4.10          53%      S               S
41140      2006    Govt    NaturalDisaster Risk Management                     0.00             86.00           0.00     85.50            na    na               na
                           PRSC
40910      2005    Govt    PRSCIV                                              0.00            100.00           0.00    95.90             na    na               na
                           Total  -- Current Projects                            0           3950.82          -
                                                                                                              10.54   3o06.90           50%


                           Grand Total --All Projects                                       5.985.53
                             (ClosedandCurrent)
                                                                      Active Loans      Closed Loans           Total
Total disbursed                                                          1,081.00            1.883.00      2,964.00
 of whichrepaid                                                                                30.39          30.39
Total undisbursed                                                        3,006 90                          3,006.90


Note: a. Intendeddisbursements to date as projectedin SAPminusactual disbursementsto date
      b. Followingthe FY94 Annual Reviewof PortfolioPerformance(ARPP). aletter-basedsystemwas introduced
         (HS=highly satisfactory, S=satisfactory, U=unsatisfactory,HU=highly unsatisfactory).
      c. Disbursementis estimatedto continuebeyondclosingdate.
Sovrce: World Bank


                                                                                            62

                                                   VIETNAM
                                            STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                         HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                            InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                     Committed                                    Disbursed

                                                   IFC                                          IFC

FY Approval Company                    Loan      Equity           Quasi       Partic. Loan      Equity     Quasi  Partic.

2003        ACB-Vietnam                0.00         5.02            0.00       0.00     0.00     5.02       0.00   0.00
2002        AZ/AGF Vietnam             0.00         1.32            0.00       0.00     0.00     1.32       0.00   0.00
2002        CyberSofi                   0.00        1.25            0.00       0.00     0.00     1.25       0.00   0.00
2002        DragonCapital               0.00        0.00            2.00       0.00     0.00     0.00       2.00   0.00
2002        F-V Hospital                5.00        0.00            3.00       0.00     5.00     0.00       3.00   0.00
2003        GlassEgg                    0.00         1.75           0.00       0.00     0.00     0.63       0.00   0.00
1998        MFLVinh Phat                0.15        0.00            0.00       0.00     0.15     0.00       0.00   0.00
1997        Nghi Son Cement             14.87       0.00            0.00       9.15     14.87    0.00       0.00   9.15
2001        RMIT Vietnam                7.25        0.00            0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00
1996        SMHGlass Co.                5.00        0.00            0.00       0.00     5.00     0.00       0.00   0.00
2003/04     Sacombank                   0.00        2.32            0.00       0.00     0.00     1.14       0.00   0.00
2002/03     VEIL                        0.00         8.00           0.00       0.00     0.00     8.00       0.00   0.00
1996        VILC                        0.00         0.75           0.00       0.00     0.00     0.75       0.00   0.00
                                                             ~~~                 ~~


                       Total portfolio   32 27      20 41           5 00       9 15     2502     18 11      5 00   9 15




                                                                            ~     ~~


                                                                      Approvals PendingCommitment

             FY Approval    Company                               Loan         Equity     Quasi      Partic

             2002           F-V Hospital                        0.00            0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           Interflour                          0.01            0.00       0.00       0.01
             1999           MFL Chau Giang                      0.00            0.00       0.00       0.00
             1999           MFL Minh Minh                       0.00            0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           MFLMondial                          0.00            0.00       0.00       0.00
             2000           MFL-AA                              0.00            0.00       0.00       0.00

                                  Totalpendingcommitment:          0.01         0.00       0.00       0.01




                                                             63

                                                           Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                            VIETNAM: Customs ModernizationProject
                                                                                       East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                                    Asia B      Low-
                                                                    Vietnam          Pacific    income            Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                                          80.5         1,838       2,495                          Life expectancy
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                       430             950        430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                         34.8         1,740       1,072                                 -

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                                  I


Population (%)                                                             1.3           1.o         1.9
Labor force (%)                                                            1.7           1.2        2.3           GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                                                  per                                   primary
                                                                                                                           ~




Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                           I capka                               enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpoverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                                   25             38         30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                           70             69         59                                 -
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                                    26             33         81
Chiid malnutrition("A of children under 5)                                  34            15                           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source ("A of population)                        77            76         76
Illiteracy ("A ofpopuiafion age 15+)                                         7            13         37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                      106            106         95                  -Vietnam
    Male                                                                  109            105        103                          Low-income group
    Female                                                                102            106         87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                             1982        1992          2001        2002
                                                                                                                  Economic ratios`
GDP (US$ billions)                                                         9.9          32.7       35.1
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                                            17.6           31.2       32.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                        34.7           54.6        55.5                              Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                                               13.6           28.8        28.1
Gross national savings/GDP                                                              30.9

Current account baiancelGDP                                              -0.8            1.6        -1.5
InterestpaymentslGDP                                                       0.4           1.1         0.8
Total debt/GDP                                                         246.6            38.5        38.0
Total debt servicekxports                                                  7.1           6.7         5.9
Presentvalue of debtiGDP                                                                33.5
Presentvalue of debWexports                                                             60.8                                       Indebtedness
                                            1982-92      1992-02         2001          2002     2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                    -Vietnam
GDP                                              5 2            7 4        6.9           7.0
GDP per capta                                    2 9            5 8        5 5           5 7                                       Low-income w o w             II

STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

                                                                                                                                                                I
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                              33 9                                                                                   III
industry                                                                 27 3
    Manufacturing                                                 ..     15.4           19.8        20.6
Services                                                          ..     38.8           38.6        38.5
                                                                                                                  0
Privateconsumption                                                       80 7           648         65.7                    97     98     99     00    01     02
General government consumption                                             5.6           6 3         6 2
Imports of goods and services                                            38 8           569         595          1            -GDI              -0-GDP



                                                         1982-92     lgg2-02           2o01        2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                            Growth of exports and imports (W)

Agnculture                                                      3 1        4 2           3 0
Industry                                                        5 0      112            104
    Manufacturing                                               1 9      113            113         11 6
Services                                                        7 9        6 6           6 1

Privateconsumption                                                         5 0           5 6
General government consumption                                             3 4           6 6         5 4                   97     98     99      00    01     02
Gross domestic investment                                                13 8           108         106                     -Exports            -O-lmports
Imports of goods and services                                            23 9            2 3        222

* The diamonds   showfour hey indicatorsinthe country (in bold) compared Wlth its income-groupaverage If data are misslng the diamondwill be incomplete




                                                                                         64

                                                                                                                           Vietnam

PRICES and G O V E R N M E N T F I N A N C E
                                             1982   1992     2001    2002          Inflation (%)
D o m e s t i c prices                                                                                                               I
(%change)
Consumer prices                                      37.7      -0.4     4.0
implicit GDP deflator                                32.6       1.9      4.1

Government finance                                                                 0                               \
(%of GDP,includes current grants)                                                     ,                                          -
                                                                                              97       98       99  k-       01
Current revenue                                                                -
                                                      19.0     21.4    21.0    ~ - 5  -1
Current budget balance                                 0.0      5.4     5.5
Overall surplus/deficit                                        -2.5    -2.3                   -GDP          deflator -CPI


T R A D E
                                             1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                       Export and i m p o r t levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                 2,475    15,027  16,706    ~ 5 . 0 0 0-
  Rice                                                300      588      725
  Fuel                                                756    3 , m    3,270       20.000 -

                                                                                 '
  Manufactures                                                                     15 000
Total imports (cif)                                  2,950   16,162  19.733        10 000
  Food                                                  82
  Fuel and energy                                      616    1,671   2,017         5000

  Capital goods                                        950                       I       O

Export price index(1995=WO)                                                                   96     97     98    99  00     01    02

Import price index(1995=X)O)                                                      1                    IExports         @Imports
Terms of trade (S95=WO)

 B A L A N C E of P A Y M E N T S
                                             1982    1992    2001     2002        ,  Current a c c o u n t balance t o GDP (Oh)
 (US$ millions)                                                                                                                      I
 Exports of goods and services                       3,199   17,637   8,654
 Imports of goods and services                       2,950   V.783    21.l77
 Resource balance                             -659     249       54   -1.523

 Net income                                    -85    -384     -634    -766
 Net current transfers                          90      59     1,x)o   1,767

 Current account balance                      -654     -76      521    -522

 Financing items (net)                         458     538     -196      986       ,
 Changes in net reserves                       196    -462     -325     -464        -15 1
 M e m o :
 Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
 Conversion rate (DEC,locaVUSS)                 0.9 11.2022 14,725.2 15,279.5


 E X T E R N A L D E B T and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                              1982   1992    2001     2002
 (US$ millions)                                                                      C o m p o s i t i o n o f 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
 Total debt outstanding and disbursed           43  24.332   P,584    0,332
   ISRD                                           0      0         0       0
   IDA                                          35      57     1,344    1.715                                786     B 1715

 Total debt service                               0    232     120      1,174
   IBRD                                           0       0        0       0
   IDA                                            0       1       x)       0

 Compositionof net resourcefiows
   Official grants                              67      lt3     263
   Official creditors                            n     248      993      666
   Private creditors                              0     140     -591     -641
   Foreign direct investment                     13    385     1,300    1,x)0
   Portfolio equity                               0       0        0       0                           E 7635
 World Bank program
   Commitments                                    0       0     739      558         A IBRD
                                                                                        -                                 E- Bilaterd
   Disbursements                                 16       0     279       261        8 - I D A     D-Ot~nultliateral F-Prlvate
   Principal repayments                           0       1        2        2        C-IMF                                G-Slart-term




                                                                   65


MAP SECTION

                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33511

                                               102E                                   104E                       To
                                                                                                                   To   106E                               108E                          110E
                                                                        To
                                                                        To                                       Babao
                                                                      Kunming                  To
                                                                                               To
    VIETNAM                                                                                    Kaiyuan                                       To
                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                             Tiandong           CHINA

                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                          Giang            Cao Bang
                                                                                                                            `
                                                                                                      4
        PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                    5
                                                                                 LLo Cai
                                                                                 o                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                       Phong Tha                                                                         Nanning
        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                    1            Red
                                                                                         3                            9
                                                                                                              8          `BacCan
                                          22N                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                 To                         22N
        RIVERS                                                                                                 Tuyn
                                                                                                               Tuyn           10   Lang                         Hepu
                                                                                                  7            Quang                Son
                                                                          2                                             Thai
                                                                                                 Yn Bi
                                                                                                 Yn Bi
        MAIN ROADS                                                                  Black                               Nguyen
                                                                                                                   13
                                                                                         Sn La
                                                                                         Sn                    12Vinh Yen            14
        RAILROADS                                                        Din
                                                                         Din                          Vit Tr
                                                                                                       Vit Tr
                                                                         Bin Ph
                                                                         Bin Ph                        11                    Bc Giang
                                                                                                                               Bc
                                                                                                                      16     Bc Ninh
                                                                                                                             Bc               15
                                                         To
                                                         To                              6                     HANOI                           Ha Long
        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                 17 Ha Dng
                                                                                                                                Ha Dng
                                                     Muang Xai                                        Ha Bnh
                                                                                                      Ha Bnh   H Dng
                                                                                                                 H Dng  19   20        Hai Phong

        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                22 18      Hung Yen 21
                                                                                                                 H Nam
                                                                                                                 H       23   24
                                                                                                                                  Thi Bnh
                                                                                                                                  Thi Bnh
                                                                                                                              Nam Dinh
                                                                                                                Ninh Bnh
                                                                                                                      Bnh
                                                                                                                          25  26
                                          20N                                                                      Ma                                                                      20N
PROVINCES:                                                                      To
                                                                                To                          27


1 Lai Chau        32 Thua Thien Hue                         LAO                Luang
                                                                              Prabang                                    Thanh Ha


2 Dien Bien       33 Da Nang                        PEOPLE'S                                                                                      Gulf
3 Lao Cai         34 Quang Nam                                                                           28                                                                       Hainan I.
4 Ha Giang        35 Quang Ngai                   DEM. REP.                                                                                          of
5 Cao Bang        36 Kon Tum                                                                    A                                              Tonkin                              (China)
6 Son La          37 Gia Lai                                                                                    Vinh
                                                                                                   n
7 Yen Bai         38 Binh Dinh                                                                        n                   H Tinh
                                                                                                                               ~
8 Tu Yen Quang    39 Phu Yen                                                                             a       29
9 Bac Can         40 Dac Lac              18N                                                    To
                                                                                                  To          m                                                                             18N
10 Lang Son       41 Dac Nong                                                                 Khammouan

11 Phu Tho        42 Khanh Hoa                                                                                      C
12 Vinh Phuc      43 Binh Phuoc                                                                                         o       30      Dng Hi
                                                                                                                                        Dng Hi
13 Thai Nguyen    44 Lam Dong                                                                                             r
14 Bac Giang      45 Ninh Thuan                                                                                              d
15 Quang Ninh     46 Tay Ninh                                                                                                   i                  Dng H
16 Ha Noi         47 Binh Duong                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                   To             l
                                                                                                               Savannakhet           l       31
17 Bac Ninh       48 Dong Nai                              THAILAND                                                                    e                   Hu
18 Ha Tay         49 Binh Thuan                                                                                                          r
19 Hung Yen       50 T.P. Ho Chi Minh                                                                                                       a          32
                                                                                                                                                               33    D Nang
20 Hai Duong      51 Ba Ria-Vung Tau      16N                                                                                                                                              16N

21 Hai Phong      52 Long An
22 Hoa Binh       53 Tien Giang                                                                                                                                           Tam Ky
                                                                                                                                                               34
23 Ha Nam         54 Dong Thap
24 Thai Binh      55 Ben Tre                                                                                                                                                   Qung Ngai
25 Ninh Binh      56 An Giang                                                                                                                                             35
26 Nam Dinh       57 Vinh Long                                                                                                                               Ngoc Linh
                                                                                                                                                             (3143 m)
27 Thanh Hoa      58 Tra Vinh
28 Nghe An        59 Kien Giang                                                                                                                             36   Kon Tum

29 Ha Tinh        60 Can Tho                                                                                                                                                  38

30 Quang Binh     61 Hau Giang                                                                                                                                   Central
                                          14N                                                                                                                                              14N
31 Quang Tri      62 Soc Trang                                                                                                                            Play Cu
                                                                                                                                                                   37                  Quy Nhon
                  63 Bac Lieu                                                                                                                                 Highlands
                  64 Ca Mau

                                                                                                                                                                                39
                                                                                                                                                                                       Tuy Ha
                                                                                               C A M B O D I A                                                   40


                                                                                                                                                                   Bun Ma
                                                                                                                                                                   Bun
                                                                                                                                                                    Thut
                                                                                                                                                                    Thut
                                                                                                                                                                                42
                                                                                                                                                            41                        Nha Trang
                                                                                                                                                         Gia Nghia
                                          12N                                                                           To
                                                                                                                         To                                        D Lat
                                                                                                                                                                   D                       12N
                                                                                                                  Kampong Cham
                                                                                                                                           Dng
                                                                                                                                           Dng
                                                                                                                                              43
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                  To                                                               44          45
                                                                                             Kampong                                        Xoi
                                                                                                                                            Xoi
                                                                                             Chhnang      Meko               46                                                   Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                                                                                  Thp Chm
                                                                                                                              Ty Ninh
                                                                                                                              Ty
                                                                                                                                         47         48
                                                                                                            gn                   Thu Du
                                                                                                                                      Du
                                                                                                                                    Mt
                                                                                                                                    Mt                         49
                                                                                                                                              Bin Ha
                                                                                                                                              Bin Ha
                                                         Gulf                                                                          50                           Phan Thit
                                                                                                                               52
                                                           of                                                    54                       Ho Chi Minh City

                                                                                                            56     Cao Lanh           Tan An        51
                                                   Thailand                                          Long Xuyn
                                                                                                          Xuyn              53      My Tho
                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                    Vung Tu
                                                                                                                                                     ~
                  VIETNAM                                                          Phu                           Vinh Long           Bn Tre,
                                                                                                                                     Bn
                                                                                Quoc                            60         57
                                          10N                                                    Rach Gi     Cn Tho'
                                                                                                               Cn                   55                                                     10N
                                                                                                              59   61                Tr Vinh
                                                                                                                   Vi Thanh    58
                                         This map was produced by                                                                             D elta
                                         the Map Design Unit of The                                                  62      Sc Trang
                                         World Bank. The boundaries,                                            63
                                         colors, denominations and                                                      Bac Liu
                                                                                                   C Mau                        e  k o n g
                                         any other information shown                                                          M          0       50      100    150     200 Kilometers
                                         on this map do not imply, on                                    64
                                         the part of The World Bank
                                         Group, any judgment on the
                                         legal status    of any territory,                                                               0            50         100          150 Miles
                                         or any endorsement or
                                         a c c e p t a n c e o f  s u c h
                                         boundaries.                                 104E                               106E                                 108E

                                                                                                                                                                                  NOVEMBER 2004

