Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1400 
Project Name 
Customs Modernization Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P085071 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Finance; General Department of Vietnam Customs 
74 Ba Trieu, Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: 84-4-872-5258 
Fax: 84-4-872-5949 
thtkhq@hn.vnn.vn 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 15, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 16, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 23, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In recent years, Vietnam has made steady progress on a wide-ranging reform program based on 
its Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS).  The CPRGS, approved in 
2002, rests on three main pillars: completing the transition to a market economy; socially 
equitable and environmentally sustainable development; and building modern governance.  
C
ompleting the transition to a market economy is closely linked to Vietnam’s integration with 
the world economy and entails significant trade liberalization, and by definition, a much greater 
role for the private sector in economic activity. Over the last ten years, GDP has grown at more 
than 7 percent per year on average, and the poverty rate has halved.  Exports have been a key 
driver of growth, rising by over 25 percent per annum over the last ten years.  Vietnam has made 
considerable progress on implementation of its commitments under the ASEAN Free Trade Area 
and the Vietnam-US Bilateral Trade Agreement (BTA).  More recently, the Government has 
announced its strong commitment to accede to the World Trade Organization (WTO) “as soon as 
possible.”   
 
The reform agenda is strongly owned by the Government and widely supported by the donor 
community. At the strategic level, the direction of reforms is being locked-in through 
international commitments.  Meeting the requirements for WTO accession has provided 
additional impetus to the pace of reform, especially for items such as wide-ranging legal 
changes. And the CPRGS approach is being sustained by incorporating its principles into 
Vietnam’s next five year Socio-Economic Development Plan (2006-10).  Translating the 
strategic reforms into on-the-ground results will be a key challenge, especially as international 
integration intensifies.  Progress on this front would be greatly facilitated by improving the 
Page  2
quality of public administration and sector-level interventions aimed at strengthening 
governance.  This is particularly important as Vietnam seeks to attract greater private investment, 
both domestic and foreign.  A modern and efficient Customs administration will be an integral 
part of this process. 
 
Recognizing the importance of improving the quality of public administration and governance, in 
September 2001, the Government of Vietnam announced a Master Plan for Public 
Administration Reform (PAR), of which the Customs reform is a key component.  Around the 
same time, the Customs Law was passed by the National Assembly (NA).  This was followed by 
the issuance of sub-legislation and instructions dealing with the organizational structure of the 
General Department of Vietnam Customs (GDVC), the classification of import and export 
goods, and Customs valuation.  Most recently, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has approved the 
Strategic Plan for Customs Reform and Modernization for 2004-2006. 
 
A
well-performing and ethical Customs administration makes a major contribution to revenue 
mobilization, assists governments to facilitate trade and investment, and increases confidence in 
the quality and integrity of government institutions.  Experience in many countries has shown 
that Customs are uniquely positioned to co-ordinate, consolidate and simplify border-related 
regulatory formalities on behalf of all government stakeholders.   A streamlined, effective 
Customs administration also provides timely and accurate foreign trade statistics, and helps 
protect society from transnational crimes such as counterfeiting, smuggling, or narcotics 
trafficking.  Striking an appropriate balance between these apparently competing demands is the 
key challenge facing all Customs and border management agencies today.   
 
While considerable reform measures were recently taken, Vietnamese Customs are still 
considered slow, unresponsive, inconsistent and vulnerable to corruption.  A long-term vision 
with clear strategic goals is lacking.  Such a vision needs to be developed along with enabling 
instruments for its implementation.  The Customs administration will need to change 
significantly, shifting its mindset from a culture of domestic protection and control of all 
transactions, aggravated by an over-reliance on bureaucratic systems and procedures, to one that 
facilitates foreign trade and promotes private sector development.  In addition, national security 
has become a major priority for Customs.  However, increasing confidence in the security of 
imports and exports needs to be achieved without thwarting trade facilitation objectives.    
 
2. Objectives 
 
The VCMP aims to strengthen the capacity of the Customs administration of Vietnam to ensure 
that it is able to make an efficient and effective contribution to the achievement of government 
objectives in respect to trade facilitation, revenue collection, production of foreign trade 
statistics, community protection, and national security.  The project would be a key factor in 
facilitating Vietnam’s accession to the WTO and securing the gains from greater integration into 
the world trading system.  
 
The VCMP will improve the effectiveness, efficiency, accountability and transparency of the 
Customs administration.  The project builds upon the on-going efforts of other donors, and will 
seek to reinforce their inputs.   
Page  3
The VCMP is expected to meet these objectives by: (i) introducing modern Customs systems and 
procedures based on internationally agreed standards and best practice; (ii) improving the 
organizational structure and strengthening the human, financial and physical resource capacity of 
the GDVC; and (iii) introducing appropriate information and communication technology to 
improve effectiveness, increase transparency, and lower transaction costs.
 
Key performance indicators of the VCMP as indicated in the table below will be assessed 
throughout the project life by the Customs clearance-time measurement, and the client survey, 
alongside the broader development outcomes supported and assessed under the PRSCs 
 
Broader Development  Indicators 
Performance Indicators 
(i) 
A rising ratio of exports, 
particularly manufactured 
exports, to GDP 
(ii) 
An increase in the share of 
private sector exports to total 
exports 
(iii) 
An increase in private sector 
investment to GDP 
(iv) 
Reduced corruption as rated by 
independent monitors 
(v) 
An improvement in the 
reliability and public availability 
of data 
 
(i) 
10 percent reduction (per year) in mean import clearance 
times for commercial shipments at ports and airports, as 
measured at designated locations; 
(ii) 
5 percent reduction (per year) in mean clearance times for 
commercial shipments entering the country by road; 
(iii) 
20 percent reduction (per year) in physical inspections; 
(iv) 
5 percent increase (per year) of revenue collections 
(corrected to take account of tariff and tax rate changes and 
trade flows); 
(v) 
10 percent increase (per year) in client perceptions of 
Customs performance as measured by the results of annual 
client surveys;  and 
(vi) 
10 percent increase (per year) in the share of revenue 
generated and/or infringements detected as a result of 
Customs intervention pre or post clearance.  
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Recent economic reforms have seen Vietnam’s foreign trade growing at a rapid 20 percent per 
year on average over the past decade.  As in other transition economies, this implies that state-
controlled foreign trade is rapidly replaced by diversified imports by a large number of private 
firms.  This generates a considerable increase in transactions and associated frauds.  However, 
Customs have maintained to a large extent their former organization, responsibilities, and 
procedures.  The Customs administration faces new responsibilities and complexities due to 
much greater international economic integration such as increased security concerns.  This 
presents a need and an opportunity for Vietnam to establish, based on existing strengths, a 
modern, world class, Customs service.   
 
The Bank has supported CPRGS objectives through quick disbursing Poverty Reduction Support 
Credits (PRSCs).  Specifically, the PRSCs have supported strategic elements of the reform 
agenda.  These are elements that cut across sectors and require consensus and endorsement at the 
highest political level.  These programmatic lending activities have been complemented by 
investment loans to ensure that higher level strategic changes bear fruit on the ground.  PRSC4, 
which is currently under preparation, continues Bank support for Vietnam’s international 
economic integration, including the government’s efforts towards WTO accession.  PRSC4 also 
envisages prior actions to improve the transparency and accountability in government functions. 
Page  4
The Vietnam Customs Modernization Project (VCMP) would neatly complement these overall 
policy goals. 
 
The project is also complementary to and builds on work by various development partners 
including the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the areas of identifying strategies and 
priorities for tax and Customs administration reform, money laundering, and balance of 
payments statistics; the United Nation Development Program (UNDP) in the Customs statistics 
system; the World Customs Organization (WCO) and Japan International Corporation Agency 
(JICA) in the provision of training and technical assistance; the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) on BTA implementation and WTO accession; the Asian 
Development Bank (ADB) in Customs facilitation through the GMS Cross-Border Transport 
initiative;  and the European Union (EU) in Customs capacity enhancement.   
 
4. Description 
 
The VCMP will provide consulting services, training, technical assistance and appropriate 
infrastructure to support three key operational components, and one support component.  It will 
have a total cost of US$ 81.4 million, of which US$72.2 million will be financed by IDA and 
US$ 9.2 million by the Government.  The components were identified following the conduct of a 
diagnostic study and the preparation of a new Customs business model based on contemporary 
approaches to Customs administration.  The components provide a structured approach or 
pathway to close the gap between the current situation, as outlined in the diagnostic study, and 
the desired future state, as articulated in the new business model.  Component one deals with the 
core technical systems, and procedural aspects of the reform program, and component two with 
the necessary organizational and resource management improvements necessary to underpin the 
new systems.  Component three provides the information and communication technology (ICT) 
support deemed necessary to achieve world class standards of performance in Customs 
administration.  Component four provides the necessary technical and managerial support 
required to achieve effective implementation and long term sustainability of project objectives.  
 
Component 1: Customs Systems and Procedures (US$ 4.3 mn).
 
This component is designed 
to assist the GDVC to introduce a range of modern systems and procedures that will reduce 
clearance times, provide enhanced transparency and predictability for traders, reduce red tape 
and lower transaction costs. Specifically, it will support the development and implementation of: 
(i) a modern, transparent and accessible legal framework; (ii) modern procedures such as risk 
management and post clearance audit; and (iii) harmonized and simplified business processes 
based on international standards such as the WCO Revised Kyoto Convention on the 
Harmonization and Simplification of Customs Practices.  The component will also focus on 
improving the level of compliance through a more dynamic approach to Customs enforcement 
and by achieving enhanced cooperation with other government agencies.  Attention will be paid 
to reducing informal trade and commercial fraud through the development of an enhanced 
compliance and enforcement infrastructure based on the effective use of intelligence and 
improved research and analysis capabilities.  Another part of this component will endeavor to 
improve the capacity and performance of the Customs brokerage industry.   
 
Page  5
Component 2: Organizational Restructuring and Management (US$ 25.6mn)
.
This 
component will support a rationalization of the organizational structure of Customs.  It will 
include a restructure at the headquarters, regional and branch level offices, designed to 
strengthen managerial control, improve decision making, and provide an appropriate 
orga
nizational focus on a range of critically important ‘value added’ functions.  It will also focus 
on developing an enhanced human, financial, and physical resource management capacity within 
the GDVC.  This will result in the introduction of modern, merit based, human resource 
management policies and practices, and a greater capacity to identify and develop the necessary 
staff competencies to meet current and future needs. The capacity and functioning of the 
Customs Training Academy will be improved to ensure it is able to make a more effective 
contribution to the long term development of the GDVC.  The capacity of the GDVC to plan and 
manage its financial and physical resources will be enhanced through improvements in the 
financial accounting and budgeting system, including asset management and internal audit.  This 
component, will also provide, when necessary, adequate equipment and infrastructure to support 
critical project objectives such as accommodation for ICT equipment, refurbishment and 
adaptation of facilities to reinforce the new business approach, and appropriate non-intrusive 
detection equipment.  The component will strengthen the strategic planning capacity of the 
GDVC and its performance management and monitoring systems.  This would allow it to plan 
for future needs and to measure success in meeting client service standards..  As integrity and 
good governance are critical issues, significant attention will be given to the development, 
implementation and monitoring of a comprehensive integrity/anti corruption action plan and 
supporting administrative systems.  
 
Component 3: Information and Communication Technology (US$ 38.9mn).
 
This 
component is designed to provide the GDVC with a modern ICT environment and corresponding 
infrastructure and will include (i) the development and implementation of a comprehensive and 
modern Management Information System that will support the redesigned Customs processes, 
the collection of data for management, planning and statistics purposes, and improve access to 
information; (ii) the procurement of hardware and infrastructure development necessary to the 
rollout of the new system; (iii) the funding of appropriate telecommunications equipment and 
infrastructure; (iv) support for the nation-wide rollout and the training of customs officials at all 
levels; and (v) measures to improve the capacity of GDVC to manage the new system and ICT 
infrastructure. 
 
Component 4: Project Management Support (US$ 3.3 mn).
 
In addition to the above 
described key components, a fourth component has been included to provide detailed project 
management support to the Project Management Unit (PMU) and project-related coordination 
bodies including the Customs Modernization Steering Committee.  The component will ensure 
that adequate technical support is provided to the PMU during all stages of project 
implementation. 
 
Summary of the project components, their indicative costs, and the Bank financing is as follows: 
 
Project Cost by Component and/or Activity 
 
Local 
US$ mn 
Foreign 
US$ mn
 
Total 
US$ mn
Component 1:  Customs Systems and Procedures 
0.0 
3.9 
3.9 
Page  6
Component 2:  Organizational Restructuring and Management 
3.8 
23.3 
27.1 
Component 3:  Information and Communications Technology 
3.2 
35.4 
38.6 
Component 4:  Project Implementation Support 
1.5 
3.0 
4.5 
Total Baseline Costs 
8.4 
65.6 
74.1 
Price and physical contingencies 
0.0 
6.6 
6.6 
Total Project Costs 
8.4 
72.2 
80.6 
Interest During Construction 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
Service Charge 
0.5 
0.0 
0.5 
Commitment Fees 
0.2 
0.0 
0.2 
Total Financing Required 
9.2 
72.2 
81.4 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $9.2 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
$
72.2
 
Total $81.40 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam, through MOF, will be the Borrower for the International 
Development Association (IDA) credit.  The beneficiaries will be the GDVC, other line 
ministries, border agencies and stakeholders.  
 
(i)  
Customs Modernization Steering Committee (CMSC).
 
The Customs reform is currently 
directed by a Steering Committee, headed by the Vice Minister of Finance and implemented by a 
Executive Committee, consisting of representatives from the MOF, GDVC, and related line 
ministries.  It is proposed that the CMSC will (i) oversee the modernization process;  (ii) provide 
guidance to the PMU in the project implementation and the work of the PMU, (iii) co-ordinate 
with other relevant institutions in Vietnam and the businesses, and (iv) foster dialogue with the 
World Bank.  To ensure greater effectiveness of reform guidelines established by the CMSC, the 
GDVC has appointed in every Customs province a full-time Customs senior executive whose 
role will be to (i) translate into operational requirements policy reforms decided at national level, 
(ii) evaluate resistance and other delaying factors and design corresponding change management 
approaches, and (iii) report on progress and difficulties to the GDVC and CMSC.  
 
(ii)  
Committee on Fighting Against Smuggling, Counterfeiting, and Commercial Fraud
.
This 
committee (Committee 127) which provides inter-agency coordination of Customs functions on 
enforcement and compliance is chaired by the Minister of Trade and includes representatives 
from the Government, Customs, the tax administration, the economic police, the border troops, 
the Ministries of Transport and of Science and Technology, the railways administration, and 
other stakeholders.  The Committee has an operational role in anti-smuggling activities for which 
it would seek support under the project in terms of equipment and training through the 
coordination with the CMSC. 
 
(iii)  
 
Project Management Unit.  It is proposed that the National Project Director (NPD)
 of the 
VCMP be the Deputy Director General of GDVC responsible for modernization.  The NPD 
Page  7
should manage to make best use of project outcomes to ensure effective and speedy 
implementation.  He should attend all the CMSC Meetings and be empowered to make decisions 
in relation to implementation of the project.  He will convene and chair coordination meetings 
with other Ministries, agencies and stakeholders as required.  He will be assisted by a Project 
Deputy Director, acting as the PMU’s manager.  The PMU should include a Project Coordinator, 
a
Procurement Specialist, a Financial Management Specialist, an ICT Specialist, a 
Customs/Business Process Specialist, as well as support administrative personnel.  It is 
considered that the existing Project Preparation Unit (PPU) could form the core of the proposed 
PMU, thus ensuring continuity, but will need to be strengthened with additional, including 
international consultancy, technical expertise.  The PMU will cover procurement, loan 
management and reporting functions acceptable to IDA. The PMU will coordinate the project 
management, prepare terms of reference, hire consultants and contract for services, training and 
goods as necessary for the implementation of the project. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Six factors are considered critical for project sustainability, all of which have been addressed in 
the project design. 
 
(i) 
Client’s ownership of and high level commitment to its reform agenda including the 
Customs modernization program.
 
The project contributes to higher level objectives such as 
WTO accession, private sector development, reforming public administration and enhancing 
governance.  The strategic reform agenda that supports these higher level objectives is strongly 
owned by the Government.  It is also widely supported by the donor community through the 
PRSC process.  This represents an overarching reason that greatly strengthens the sustainability 
of the actions envisaged under the current project.   
 
(ii)   Clear direction and participation of the government and the Customs executive in project 
design and development
.
The Vice Minister for Finance has been actively involved in all aspects 
of project preparation and has overseen the establishment of the project management 
coordination mechanisms.  Likewise, the government of Vietnam has approved the Customs 
Modernization Plan prepared by GDVC.  The Modernization plan adopts international standards, 
and best practice and is totally consistent with the objectives sought for the project. 
 
(iii) 
The development of a sustainable, in-house capacity for continuous improvement 
following completion of project activities
.
The project has placed significant priority on 
developing the soft infrastructure necessary for an ongoing process and a culture of continuous 
improvement.  These include: (i) the creation of a dedicated strategic planning capacity within 
the GDVC; (ii) the reorganization of the GDVC to better focus on a range of ‘value added’ 
functions; (iii) the identification of a range of core competencies required to manage complex 
Customs operations in the future; and (iv) parallel investments in developing the National 
Training Academy and curriculum to better equip staff for future management, administrative 
and technical tasks.   
 
(iv) 
The establishment of sound financial management and budgeting arrangements
.
The 
project is placing significant priority on developing a more transparent and predictable financial 
Page  8
management and resource allocation process which will ensure Customs are able to predict and 
budget for future needs.  In addition, the project will develop a WTO compatible fee structure 
which will provide an ongoing income stream to finance the ICT infrastructure that will be 
implemented as a result of the project. 
 
(v) 
Reliance on ICT as a key business strategy
.
The implementation of advanced ICT 
systems will radically streamline operations by simplifying procedures, increasing transparency, 
removing opportunities for the unlawful use of official discretion and introducing internationally 
agreed standards.  Such changes, once implemented, will be extremely difficult if not impossible 
to reverse. 
 
(vi) 
Participation of the private sector via licensing and partnership arrangements
.
Fundamental to the changes that will be implemented as a result of the project will be the 
development of a new and more productive relationship between the private sector and Customs.  
Such changes will incorporate a range of incentives and disincentives which will increase private 
sector compliance and improve the investment climate.  The development of sound and 
quantifiable performance indicators and client standards will mean any slippage in performance 
will be easily identifiable and Customs officials will be held accountable. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
World Bank and other relevant age
ncies’ research, including WCO and the Organization of 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), highlights a number of critical issues that 
need to be addressed for successful reform and modernization in Customs.  The design, 
procurement packaging, and implementation arrangements for the VCMP reflect these lessons 
and draw on the accumulated experience of the Bank.  These include: 
 
(i)  
The need for 
conductive reform environment where the Client ownership and 
sustained high-level political will and commitment are affirmed
.
Without such commitment 
maintained over the longer term, reform efforts are likely to be unsuccessful, regardless of the 
quality of their design and implementation.   The VCMP is a demand-driven project, building on 
the Client’s strong determination for deepening international integration, and reforming public 
administration.  Experience elsewhere, including in South East Europe, Turkey and Russia, 
indicates that the probability for long term success is highest when the reform project is closely 
linked to wider government reform agenda.  In the case of Turkey, the Customs agenda was 
closely linked to Turkey’s wider EU accession agenda.  By the same token, the Vietnamese 
Government’s commitment on WTO accession is likely to have an extremely positive impact on 
the Customs reform agenda and will assist in maintaining a high level of political commitment to 
the project.  Since the project was launched at a government-led high level seminar, the 
commitment of the government has been evident at all stages of project preparation.  The 
leadership of the project during the design phase has been under the general direction of the 
senior management of the MOF and the GDVC, and senior officials have been designated in 
each region to ensure effective information sharing and participation in the design of the project.   
 
Page  9
(ii) 
 
The need for
 
accurate diagnosis
 
of
modernization needs and the development of 
country-specific responses.  While Customs administrations throughout the world face similar 
strategic challenges and perform similar regulatory functions, their individual circumstances, 
operating environments, administrative competencies, resource availability and development 
ambitions vary.  The project preparation has been based on a comprehensive diagnostic of the 
situation prevailing in Vietnam.  The assessment was undertaken as part of a Policy and Human 
Resource Development (PHRD) grant.  To ensure the reliability of the approach taken for the 
diagnostic process, the PHRD-funded consultants used
 the WCO’s Customs Capacity Building 
Diagnostic Framework.  This framework provides a template for addressing all key operational 
and support functions of Customs and is based on international standards and best practice.   
 
(iii)  
The need for 
pre-reform capacity enhancement
.
Lessons from previous large scale 
Customs projects strongly suggest that senior management participation and ownership of the 
project is critical to its long term success and sustainability.  During the VCMP preparation 
phase, the Bank funded the conduct of a residential development program for key senior 
executives of the GDVC and representatives of key stakeholder agencies.  The program was 
developed and conducted by the University of Canberra, Customs and Excise Studies Centre and 
was tailored specifically to the needs of Vietnam to expose participants to all the major 
principles that underpin modern Customs administration as well as the project management and 
leadership skills necessary to drive the change process. As a result, the executive gained a much 
better understanding of the scale, scope and content of the changes envisaged under the project 
and have been able to play a more active and constructive role both in project development and 
in leading the change process in GDVC.  Similarly, the Bank also funded a study visit for a 
senior management delegation of Vietnam Customs to learn managerial experience of Customs 
reform and execution of the Bank-supported Customs project for Russia and Turkey.  As a result, 
various lessons have been learnt and are reflected in the VCMP design and the implementation 
arrangements.    
 
(iv)  
The need to acquire 
instruments to make reform measurable
.
It is important that the 
modernization project and its impact be measured regularly and the progress assessed on an 
objective basis. As such, during all stages of the VCMP preparation, significant attention was 
paid to obtaining accurate base line data in respect to core business processes.  For example, 
surveys of clearance times were conducted at major ports and land border crossings and will be 
periodically carried out to determine the impact of the reform process.  Likewise, a client survey 
program is under preparation which will provide a clear view of the perceptions of the business 
community.  These two key performance measurements make the VCMP significantly result-
oriented.  In addition, the project incorporates a major sub-component dealing specifically with 
further strengthening the quality of performance indicators for all key Customs operational and 
procedural areas. The development of such indicators and monitoring mechanisms will facilitate 
supervision and monitoring of the project.      
 
(v)   
The  need  for 
enhanced co-operation and coherence between donors
.
One of the 
perennial problems facing all capacity building recipients and providers is the poor level of co-
ordination and communication between national, regional and international donors leading to 
duplication of effort, little or no attention to other strategically important areas of Customs 
administration, and sometimes conflicting recommendations.  Therefore, significant attention has 
Page  10
been paid during the VCMP design to ensuring effective cooperation between donors.  The 
project builds on the complementary work currently being undertaken by a range of donors and 
attempts to avoid duplication of effort.  Meetings were held with all key donors during all stages 
of project preparation and the project components reflect the areas in which most ‘value added’ 
can be achieved.  
 
(vi)  
The need for 
adequate human and financial resources
 to be devoted to achieving 
project objectives.  Customs administrations in many developing countries typically face 
enormous pressure to maximize revenue collections.  To achieve this, particularly in an operating 
environment characterized by poor levels of voluntary compliance, Customs officials typically 
resort to high levels of documentary and physical inspection to verify the value, classification 
and origin of goods.  While this results in significant delays in Customs clearance and creates an 
operating environment that is vulnerable to corruption, it does not bring the expected results in 
terms of increased compliance.  At the same time, Customs administrations also face significant 
pressure from the private sector and trade-related government agencies to expedite the 
processing and clearance of goods.  This can only be achieved by reducing the level of routine 
and resource-intensive documentary and physical examination.  Experience in all industrialized 
countries has proved that such apparently competing demands and objectives can be successfully 
managed by an efficient and effective Customs administration, the scale and the scope of the 
improvements necessary to achieve this in developing countries are extensive.  Unfortunately, 
human and financial resources devoted to such fundamental changes have often been inadequate 
to achieve the changes required and in many cases, even when improvements have been made, 
they have proved unsustainable in the longer term.  In order to re-address these problems, the 
project design has incorporated (i) a five year implementation timeframe; (ii) significant 
provision of short and long term in-country advisors; and (iii) the development of WTO 
compatible fee arrangements which will provide a pool of financial resources necessary to ensure 
sustainability of project objectives.   
 
(vii)   
The need to obtain 
adequate private sector participation
 and commitment.  Experience 
in previous Bank’s Customs-related projects suggests that it is important to secure long-term 
commitment and participation of the private sector in the modernization program.  Significant 
attention has been devoted to this in the project design including a more formalized process for 
consultation, cooperation and partnership with the private sector, and involving the creation of a 
Customs brokerage industry. In addition, the Vietnamese Chamber of Commerce and Industry 
was invited to participate in all preparation stages, including the design and conduct of the 
baseline client surveys.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies 
(including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Page  11
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1. 
PHRD Grant proposal 
–
approved 
2. 
PHRD Grant Agreement (TF 053144) 
3. 
Terms of Reference for PHRD Grant Assignments 
4. 
PHRD Grant Contracts 
5. 
World Bank Mission Aide Memoirs 
6. 
Correspondence with the Government 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Duc Minh Pham 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: 5777+229 
Fax: 5777+284 
Email: dpham3@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  12
