Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB760 
Project Name 
Customs Modernization Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P085071 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministry of Finance 
8 Phan Huy Chu Street 
Vietnam 
Tel: 84-4-824-0437 
Fax: 84-4-826-2266 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 10, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 10, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 20, 2005 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The government’s Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS), its 
blueprint for development, rests on three pillars:  completing the transition to a market economy, 
making development more inclusive, and building modern governance.  Completing the 
transition to a market economy would require much greater integration with the world economy 
entailing significant trade liberalization.  Vietnam is making considerable progress on this front 
as it implements its commitments on the ASEAN Free Trade Area and the US BTA.  More 
recently, the government has announced its firm commitment towards acceding to the WTO by 
2005.  A modern, efficient, and transparent Customs service is key to the government’s efforts 
towards integrating more closely with the world economy and towards acceding to the WTO in 
particular.  Better Customs services are considered crucial to enhancing international 
competitiveness given the increased competition from increased trade liberalization worldwide.  
Moreover, improved trade facilitation through Customs modernization, and the improved 
perception of a country’s governance that it conveys, has been shown to be crucial for enhancing 
the overall investment climate.  
Recent economic reforms have seen Vietnam’s foreign trade growing at a rapid 22 percent per 
year on average over the past decade (1992-2002).  Like in other economies in transition, this 
implies that state-controlled foreign trade is rapidly replaced by diversified imports by a large 
number of small firms.  This generates a considerable increase in transactions and associated 
frauds, while Customs have maintained to a large extent their former organization, 
responsibilities, and procedures.  The Customs administration faces new responsibilities and 
complexities due as much to globalization as increased security concerns.  There is therefore a 
Page  2
 
 
need and an opportunity to establish, based on existing strengths, a modern, world class, 
Customs service.   
The Bank has supported CPRGS objectives through quick disbursing Poverty Reduction Support 
Credits (PRSCs).  These programmatic lending activities have been complemented by 
investment loans largely directed at enhancing governance, such as the Customs Modernization 
Project, in a synergistic manner.  PRSC 3, which is currently under preparation, supports the 
government’s efforts towards WTO accession. The customs modernization projects thus neatly 
complements this overall policy goal. 
Government actions to address these issues 
 
In September 2001, the Government of Vietnam announced a Master Plan for Public 
Administration Reform (PAR), of which the Customs reform is a key component.  Around the 
same time, the Customs Law was passed by the National Assembly.  This was followed by the 
issuance of  sub-legislation and instructions dealing with the organizational structure of the 
General Department of Customs (GDC), the classification of import and export goods, and 
Customs valuation. 
Recognizing the importance of Customs modernization, the Vietnamese Government approved 
in July, 2002 a pre- feasibility study for a project on computerizing Customs procedures.  This 
project, planned for the period 2001-2005, earmarks the state budget and ODA sources for 
financing the project. 
The project responds to the specific MOF request for Bank financing and to the CAS
.
  
 
The proposed Vietnam Customs Modernization Project is listed in the CAS Update that was 
presented to the Board on February 19, 2004.  In the earlier full CAS presented to the Board on 
September 3, 2002, it is listed as Component III of on the Public Administration Reform (CAS,  
Annex D1, page 8 of 19), which has since been restructured as a separate project, as reflected 
explicitly in the CAS Update.  The three pillars (themes) or broad objectives of the government’s 
CPRGS are also the organizing principles of the Bank’s CAS. The Bank’s instruments of 
assistance are being aligned along these three themes.  The proposed project of Customs 
modernization will contribute to two of the main pillars of the CPRGS, namely completing the 
transition to a market economy and integrating into the world economy, and building modern 
governance, including reduced scope for corruption. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
Vietnam Customs Modernization Project (VCMP) aims to strengthen the Customs administration 
of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam so as to increase administrative efficiency of trade reform, 
enhance revenue collection, improve foreign trade statistics; reduce the risk and costs of 
transnational fraud and crimes; and facilitate the country's accession to the WTO. 
The project aims to strengthen the effectiveness, efficiency, accountability and transparency of 
Customs administration, by promoting internationally acceptable practices for processing of 
international trade flows.  It responds to the key needs of both modern day Customs 
administrations and the demands of the international trade by seeking to provide a balance 
between the Customs functions of control and revenue collection and that of trade facilitation.  
The project builds upon the on-going efforts of other donors, and will seek to reinforce their 
inputs.  A streamlined, effective Customs administration can prevent fraud with regards to the 
Page  3
 
 
payment of duties and taxes as well as transnational crimes such as smuggling, narcotics 
trafficking etc while facilitating legitimate trade that will lead to greater national prosperity.  
This would lead to changing the public perception that Vietnam Customs is slow, unresponsive, 
inconsistent and disposed to corrupt practices. 
The project is expected to meet proposed objectives by:  (i) simplifying procedures for Customs 
processing and control through an efficient Customs clearance system, improved control by the 
post-release audits, and greater compliance with revised Kyoto convention of WCO;  (ii) 
enhancing governance and management capacity;  and (iii) addressing security concerns: 
 
3. Preliminary description 
Project components.
  The project envisages five components: (i) Institutional development and 
Trade Facilitation (ii) Management Systems and IT Architecture; (iii) Preventive, Compliance, 
and Enforcement Activities; (iv) Human Resource Development, and (v) Project 
Implementation. 
1. The first component on institutional development and trade facilitation will include: (i) 
development of a legal framework, an enabling environment,  and a strategic plan including 
required policy changes to meet domestic reform needs, and WTO accession conditions within 
an appropriate time frame; (ii) review of the business process, adapted organizational reforms, 
corresponding training, and implementation of streamlined procedures; (iii) support to the 
establishment of institutionalized relations with the private sector leading to transparency and 
feedback, efficient dispute resolution mechanisms, and training of users in new procedures; (iv) 
closer functional integration between control agencies (economic police, tax administration, 
market control, border troops, etc.) to achieve management of the international trade by 
objectives rather than by institutions while ensuring revenue collection objectives; and (v) 
support to infrastructure rehabilitation. 
2. The second component on management systems infrastructure and IT architecture will 
include:  (i) design for an IT systems architecture including computerization and automation of 
all the Customs procedures and information management systems for  modern Customs 
operations; (ii) linkages to other government applications; and (iii) provision of software and 
hardware. 
3. The third component on Customs preventive, compliance and enforcement will include (i)  
support to streamlined, effective Customs control and clearance system that can meet the 
challenges of fraud in the payment of duties and taxes as well as transnational crimes such as 
smuggling, narcotics trafficking, money laundering, and terrorism; (ii) introduction of the 
mechanisms and organization to enable a risk-based approach to clearance operations and post 
release audits; (iii) development of linkages to other administrations and institutions, and 
reinforce inter-agency cooperation, delegation, and cross-designation of officials, through multi-
agency task teams; (iv) provision of equipment; and (v) provision of cross-agency training. 
4.  The fourth component on human resource development will include (i) assessment of 
organizational and staffing needs to accommodate the Customs development strategy; (ii) design 
of a strategic staffing development plan, including training needs, re-deployment of resources, 
and ensuring adequate safeguards to limit redundancies; (iii) preparation of a staff remuneration 
and compensation plan, taking into account the specificities of Customs work; (iv) development 
Page  4
 
 
of an ethics strategy destined to prevent the emergence of corruption; and (v) and capacity 
building.  
5.  The fifth component on the project implementation assistance will include:  (i)  provision of 
the operational support to the Government implementing agency;  (ii) capacity building through  
development of regular updated project preparation plan, financial management arrangements of 
the project, procurement arrangement for the project, consistent with the Bank’s guidelines; and 
contracting and other common services to the first four components of the operation. 
Change Management Strategy:
  Each of the above components will involve significant change 
management efforts.  To this effect, an overall change management strategy will be designed 
before the start of the project which will include: (i) mapping of the processes and inter-actions 
between different agents and institutions to limit risks of conflicts, inconsistencies, and 
discretionary powers of individual officers; (ii) preparation of a matrix of the current enabling 
environment, to identify bottlenecks, and areas where a multi-agency approach is required; 
propose alternate organization; (iii) identification of the strengths and weaknesses of the society 
to use current organizational, institutional, and sociological networks to promote the project 
objectives; (iv) identification (and support) of champions for the reform throughout the 
Government, political bodies, and private sector; (v) establishment of a networked chain of 
responsibilities and accountability, using inter-agency linkages; (v) testing of new procedures at 
selected pilot locations; and (vi) preparation of a wide-ranging communications strategy. 
Monitorable Indicators:
 In addition, project accomplishments will be measured through the 
monitoring of performance indicators, collected both at the pilot locations and at national level, 
and reviewed on a periodic basis throughout project life. 
Choice of Instrument, Possible Loan Amount and Donor Coordination. 
  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
70 
 Total 
70 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Duc Minh Pham 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: 5777+229 
Fax:  
Email: dpham3@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD) 
 
wb149493 
L:\Customs Modernization\PCN\PID\Project Information Document - Concept Stage_P085071_March10.doc 
Page  5
 
 
March 10, 2004 3:45 PM
 
