Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4123-VN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Customs Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 2, 2006 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4123-VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 2006, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or 
services to be financed under the Credit, or on their importation, 
manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of such taxes is 
subject to the Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency 
in the use of the proceeds of its credits.  To that end, if the Association 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or 
in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the Development Credit 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Association.” 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meaning: 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1
 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
“Committee on Fighting against Smuggling, Counterfeiting and 
Commercial Fraud” means the committee established pursuant to Prime 
Minister’s Decision 127/2001/QD-Ttg dated August 27, 2001, and referred to 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and any successor thereto. 
(c) 
“Customs Modernization Steering Committee” means the committee 
established under Decision No. 3219/QD-BTC dated October 10, 2004 of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and 
any successor thereto. 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(e) 
“GDVC” means the Borrower’s General Department of Vietnam 
Customs, successor to the Tariff and Indirect Tax Department established 
pursuant to Order 27/SL dated September 10, 1945 of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Interior, and any successor thereto. 
(f) 
“ICT” means information and communication technology. 
(g) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any 
successor thereto. 
(h) 
“MOT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Trade, and any 
successor thereto. 
(i) 
“MPI” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and 
Investment, and any successor thereto. 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
(j) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be established 
and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(k) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan 
dated October 3, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of 
Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover 
succeeding eighteen
 
(18) month periods (or longer) of Project implementation
.
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to forty-five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR45,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2011 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
1
and November 1, commencing May 1, 2016 and ending November 1, 2045. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2025 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower
’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
(5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MOF and its General Department of Vietnam Customs with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, management, 
financial and customs practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 (ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 14
 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
(a) 
the Borrower has established the PMU and appointed thereto a Project 
director, a Project coordinator, and specialists in, respectively, procurement, financial 
management, ICT and Customs/business processes, each in a manner acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and 
(b) 
the Borrower has adopted a financial management manual acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
 
49 Ly Thai To 
 
Hanoi 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 
 412248 
  (84-4) 
8 
250 
612 
 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Rakesh Nangia 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR equivalent
)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be  
Financed
(1)  Works 
 
1,520,000 
 
95% 
 
(2)  Goods 
 
31,840,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost) and 90% of 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
 
(3)  Consultants’ Services 
 
6,120,000 
 
100%
 
(4) Costs of roll-out of 
Customs operations systems 
2,470,000 
 
100% 
 
(5)  Training  
 
2,770,000 
 
100% 
 
(6)  Incremental Operating 
Costs 
 
780,000 
 
100% 
 
TOTAL 
 
__________ 
 
45,500,000 
 
========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of 
incremental expenditures incurred by GDVC in carrying out the Project (which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project), including the costs of 
office consumables, communication costs, office rental, costs of travel and travel 
allowances for Project staff, but in all cases excluding salaries and salary supplements for 
civil servants. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (6) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 10, 2005. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) goods costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (e) workshops, training and study tours; and (f) incremental 
operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve the 
effectiveness, efficiency, accountability and transparency of the Customs administration 
in order to enhance its capacity for trade facilitation, revenue collection, production of 
foreign trade statistics, community protection and national security, and to facilitate 
Vietnam’s international economic integration. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Customs Systems and Procedures
Carry out a program to introduce modern Customs systems and procedures to 
increase the efficiency and transparency, and lower the costs, of Customs transactions, 
said program consisting of: 
1. 
Strengthening the legal framework for Customs administration to enable the 
application of new processes and procedures, and facilitating public access to such legal 
information; 
2. 
Standardizing, harmonizing and simplifying Customs business processes in line 
with the Revised Kyoto Convention on the Harmonization and Simplification of Customs 
Procedures through: (i) a comprehensive review and rationalization of Customs 
documentary requirements and of import/export/transit procedures; and (ii) application of 
the appropriate methodology to enable a correct valuation, classification and 
determination of the origin of goods in line with generally accepted international 
standards; 
3. 
Strengthening Customs compliance and enforcement through: (i) the 
development of a comprehensive strategy for managing and improving compliance with 
Customs regulations and requirements, and implementing a risk management approach 
which balances the goals of control and facilitation in respect to Customs transactions; 
and (ii) implementation of a post-clearance audit regime, including development of a 
national audit plan, preparation of operational manuals and provision of training on post-
clearance audit; 
4. 
Enhancing the capacity of GDVC for information collection and evaluation, 
commercial research and analysis, and client segmentation to support its risk 
management and post-clearance audit approach; and 
5. 
Promoting the development of a Customs brokerage industry through: (i) the 
development of a supporting legal framework including licensing systems and 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
competency requirements; and (ii) the development and implementation of an advance 
tariff and valuation ruling system and strengthening of appeal mechanisms for traders. 
Part B
:
Organizational Restructuring and Resource Management
1. 
Conduct a comprehensive assessment of the organizational structure with a view 
to its rationalization; develop a new organizational model reflecting new priorities and 
responsibilities of GDVC, and an action plan to implement such organizational model; 
and initiate the implementation of such plan. 
2. 
Carry out a program to improve resource management and to modernize 
GDVC’s infrastructure, said program consisting of: (i) enhancing the human resource 
management function within GDVC through the development of a human resource 
strategic plan, a detailed assessment of staffing requirements, and the development of 
personnel policies and practices; (ii) enhancing the human resources development 
capacity of GDVC, including through an analysis of training needs for GDVC, and the 
development of a training strategy and new training curriculum; (iii) developing the 
financial resource management capacity of GDVC through the strengthening of its 
management accounting capability and enhancing the internal audit function; (iv) 
enhancing the physical resources of GDVC through renovation of facilities and provision 
of equipment; (v) developing the strategic planning capacity of GDVC to manage the 
processes for its modernization, including establishing a change management unit; and 
preparing and implementing client service standards and monitoring and evaluation 
mechanisms; and (vi)
 
supporting the development and implementation of a national 
integrity and anti-corruption program in Customs services. 
Part C
:
Information and Communication Technology
Establish and operate a modern management information system to support the 
Customs processes re-designed under Part A of the Project, including: 
1. 
Installing hardware, software and telecommunications system; 
2. 
Rolling out the system for nation-wide implementation; and 
3. 
Strengthening the management and technical skills of GDVC to develop and 
implement the new management information system.  
Part D
:
Project Management Support
Strengthen GDVC’s capacity for Project implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation, through the provision of technical assistance, consultants’ services and 
equipment. 
*** 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2010. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods and services other than consultants’ 
services estimated to cost less than $100,000 but more than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract and works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the 
additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
The Customs operations software package under Part C of 
the Project which the Association agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting 
may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines
.
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the 
Association. 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (c) each contract procured 
under Direct Contracting; and (d
)
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more, each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more and all contracts for consultants’ services procured under Single Source Selection. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
Annex to Schedule 3 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
The Borrower represents that the procedures to be followed for National 
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Decree 88/1999/ND-CP dated 
September 1999, as modified by Decree 14/2000/ND-CP dated May 2000 and Decree 
66/2003/ND-CP dated June 2003; and, in order to ensure economy, efficiency and 
transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Guidelines (as 
required by paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines), goods and works for which this Schedule 3  
allows procurement using National Competitive Bidding shall be procured in accordance 
with paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the following paragraphs. 
Participation in bidding and preferences
(i) 
For clarification purposes, it is understood that the last sentence of the amended 
Paragraph (c), Section 2,  Article 2 of Decree 88/1999/ND-CP which states that 
“All the 
procedures for submission, appraisal and approval of bidding results and bidder selection 
results shall follow the Procurement Regulation” means “Approvals of draft bidding 
documents, bid evaluation reports and proposals for award shall be obtained in 
accordance with the relevant rules and procedures of the Procurement Regulation”. 
(ii) 
Government-owned enterprises in Vietnam shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower or the 
procuring entity.  Military or security units, or enterprises which belong to the Ministry of 
Defense or the Ministry of Public Security shall not be permitted to bid. 
(iii) 
Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same 
conditions as local bidders, and local bidders shall be given no preference (either in the 
bidding process or in bid evaluation) over foreign bidders, nor shall bidders located in the 
same province or city as the procuring entity be given any such preference over bidders 
located outside that city or province. 
(iv) 
Bidders shall be allowed to participate in bidding without being listed in the 
Government Database on Bidder Information or in any other registration system.   
(v) 
Prospective bidders shall be permitted to request bidding documents either in 
person or through the mail upon submission of a written application.  Bidding documents 
shall be sold to anyone who is willing to pay the required fee of the bidding documents, 
and no other conditions shall be imposed on the sale of the bidding documents.  The fee 
for the bidding documents should be reasonable and consist only of the cost of printing 
(or photocopying) the documents and their delivery to the purchaser. The bidding 
documents shall be delivered, at the prospective bidders’ preference, either by hand or by 
mail/courier provided that the bidder is willing to pay the mail/courier delivery charges 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
which should be specified in the Invitation for Bids. Each bidder shall be allowed to 
purchase only one set of the bidding documents.  
(vi) 
Foreign bidders shall not be required, in order to participate in bidding or as a 
condition of award of the contract or during execution of the contract, to enter into a joint 
venture with a local bidder, or to subcontract part of their contract to a local bidder. 
(vii) 
If there is prequalification, 
all
 prequalified bidders shall be invited to bid. 
(viii) 
If there is limited bidding because there are only a limited number of bidders who 
can meet the requirements of the bidding documents, 
all 
of
these bidders shall be invited 
to bid. 
(ix) 
Bidders shall not be required, as a condition of participation in the bidding, to 
provide suppliers’ credits. 
Advertising; time for bid preparation
(x) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
newspaper. In addition, the Borrower is encouraged to advertise in the Government 
Public Procurement Bulletin and on a free and open access website. A minimum of 30 
days for the preparation and submission of bids shall be provided, and potential bidders 
shall be allowed to purchase bidding documents up to 24 hours prior to the deadline for 
the submission of bids. 
Standard Bidding Documents
(xi) 
The Borrower’s standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Association, shall 
be used. The bidding documents shall provide clear instructions on how bids should be 
submitted, how prices should be offered, and the place and time for submission and 
opening of bids.  Bidders shall be allowed to submit bids by hand or by mail. 
Qualification criteria and evaluation criteria
(xii) 
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents
,
and
all 
criteria so specified, and 
only
 criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a 
bidder is qualified. The evaluation of the bidder’s qualifications should be conducted 
separately from the technical and commercial evaluation of the bid. When post 
qualification is applied, the assessment of bidders’ qualifications shall be carried out only 
after the preliminary and detailed evaluation of bids has been completed by the 
Purchaser/Employer and, in doing so, the qualifications of the bidder who has submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid shall be assessed first.  In carrying out 
the post-qualification assessment, the Employer/Purchaser shall exercise reasonable 
judgment in requesting, in writing, from a bidder only missing factual or historical 
supporting information related to the bidder’s qualifications and shall provide a  
Page  22
-
20
-
20
reasonable time period (that is, a minimum of 7 days) to the bidder to provide his 
response. 
(xiii) 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms.  All evaluation 
criteria so specified, and only evaluation criteria so specified, shall be taken into account 
in bid evaluation.  Merit points shall not be used in bid evaluation.  
Bid opening, evaluation and award of contract
(xiv) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the stipulated deadline for 
submission of bids.  Bidders or their representatives, shall be allowed to be present.  The 
name of the bidder and total amount of each bid, including discounts, shall be read aloud 
and recorded.  Immediately after completion of the bid opening proceedings, a copy of 
the bid opening record shall be posted at a prominent location, accessible to the public, 
outside the office of the concerned procuring entity and shall be retained at the same 
location until the award of contract has been notified.  A copy of the bid opening record 
shall be promptly provided to all bidders who submitted bids.      
(xv) 
Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be returned to the 
bidders unopened. 
(xvi) 
All bids shall not be rejected or new bi
ds solicited without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii) 
No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s 
estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior concurrence. 
(xviii) A bid containing material deviations from, or reservations to, the terms, 
conditions or specifications of the bidding documents shall be rejected as not 
substantially responsive. A bidder shall not be permitted to withdraw material deviations 
or reservations once bids have been opened.  Bidders shall not be eliminated from 
detailed evaluation on the basis of non-material, minor deviations or reservations. 
(xix) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the 
bidding documents, and contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the 
lowest evaluated and responsive bid. 
(xx) 
A bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations 
not specified in the bidding documents, or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(xxi) 
There shall be no post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any other bidder. 
(xxii) 
The Borrower shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated 
period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association and the Government, if it at 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
any time determines that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices in competing for, or in executing, an 
Association-financed contract.  
Suppliers and Contractors
(xxiii)  Bidding documents and contracts under national competitive bidding procedures 
financed by the Association shall include a provision requiring suppliers and contractors 
to permit the Association to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid 
submission and the performance of the supplier and/or contractor, as the case may be, and 
to have them audited by auditors appointed by the Association, if so required by the 
Association. 
(xxiv)  License for foreign contractors operation in Vietnam would be provided in a 
timely manner and will not be arbitrarily withheld.
 
Publication of the Award of Contract
(xxv) 
The Borrower shall publish the following information on contract award in a 
Government Public Procurement Bulletin or on a free and open access website or on 
another means of publication acceptable to the Association: (a) name of each bidder who 
submitted a bid; (b) bid prices as read out at bid opening; (c) name and evaluated price of 
each bid that was evaluated; (d) name of bidders whose bids were rejected and the 
reasons for their rejection; and (e) name of the winning bidder, price it offered as well as 
the duration and summary scope of the contract awarded.  This publication shall be 
updated quarterly. 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints 
(xxvi)  The national competitive bidding procedures for contracts financed by the 
Association shall include provisions, acceptable to the Association, for bidders to protest.
 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
Project Management 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of Project implementation the 
Customs Modernization Steering Committee, with such powers, responsibilities and 
terms of reference as shall be necessary to enable it to: (a) provide a strategic direction to 
and oversee the modernization of Customs services; (b) ensure coordination with relevant 
agencies and institutions (including without limitation the General Department of 
Vietnam Tax, the Ministry of Transport, and the Committee on Fighting against 
Smuggling, Counterfeiting and Commercial Fraud) and with the business community, 
including small and medium enterprises, in the Customs modernization process; and (c) 
provide overall guidance to the PMU in the implementation of the Project and the 
accomplishment of its objectives. 
2. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain, throughout the period of Project 
implementation, a Project Management Unit within MOF, to be responsible for managing 
the implementation of Project activities, including procurement, financial management 
and control, monitoring and reporting; said Unit to be under the direction of experienced 
managers, provided with adequate resources and staffed with competent personnel in 
sufficient numbers, including a Project director, a Project coordinator, and specialists in 
procurement, financial management, ICT and in Customs/business processes, each with 
qualifications and experience and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
3. 
In order to support the PMU, the Borrower, through MOF, shall engage, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement: 
(a) 
by no later than April 15, 2006, a senior advisor with qualifications and 
international experience in customs administration, and under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, to assist the PMU in managing the implementation of the 
Project; and  
(b) 
by no later than
 
November 15, 2006, a procurement advisor with 
qualifications and international experience, in particular experience in ICT procurement, 
and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, to assist the PMU in its 
procurement and contract management responsibilities. 
 
Implementation 
4. 
The Borrower, through MOF, shall prepare and put into effect a financial 
management manual satisfactory to the Association, to serve as reference and training 
manual to project staff at all levels who are responsible for the financial management 
aspects of the Project or any part thereof; said manual shall set forth, inter alia, the 
Page  25
-
23
-
23
organizational structure and responsibilities in regard to financial management, financial 
accounting systems, internal control mechanisms, financial reporting requirements and 
procedures, auditing arrangements, and samples and forms. 
5. 
By no later than May 31 and November 30 of each year, commencing in 2006, 
the Borrower, through MOF, shall: (a) provide to the Association for its prompt review 
and comment, a semi-annual work plan, including budget therefor, covering the next 
succeeding semester, provided that the first such semi-annual work plan shall be provided 
by no later than December 31, 2005; and (b) thereafter, implement such work plan as 
shall have been agreed with the Association, in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
6. 
MOF shall: (a) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, by no later than 
September 30, 2006, complete the review of current Customs business procedures and 
documentation and develop an action plan for the harmonization and simplification of 
said procedures and documentation in line with the provisions of the Revised Kyoto 
Convention on the Harmonization and Simplification of Customs Procedures; (b) provide 
such action plan to the Association for its prompt review and comments; and (c) 
thereafter implement 
said plan giving due consideration to the Association’s view 
thereon. 
7. 
To serve as a basis for risk management in Customs operations, MOF shall: (a) 
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, by no later than
 
September 30, 2006, develop 
a
compliance and risk management implementation plan, including therein a risk register 
together with a series of risk profiles, and a national post-clearance audit plan; (b)  
provide said plan to the Association for its prompt review and comments; and (c) 
thereafter, implement said plan, giving due consideration to the Association’s view 
thereon. 
8. 
In order to carry out its compliance and risk management implementation plan, 
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, by no later than May 31, 2006, MOF shall 
establish a risk management unit, under the direction of qualified managers, staffed with 
competent and experienced personnel in sufficient numbers, and provided with sufficient 
resources. 
9. 
MOF shall: (a) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, by no later than 
December 15, 2006, complete a comprehensive assessment of the current organizational 
structure of GDVC, with a view to rationalize such structure and to reflect new priorities 
and responsibilities of GDVC; and on the basis of said assessment, develop an 
organizational re-structuring action plan for GDVC; (b) provide said plan to the 
Association for its prompt review and comments; and (c) thereafter, implement said plan, 
giving due consideration to the Association’s view thereon.  
10. 
MOF shall: (a) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, by no later than 
November 1, 2006, develop a human resources strategic plan and complete a detailed 
staffing requirements assessment under terms of reference acceptable to the Association; 
Page  26
-
24
-
24
(b) provide said strategic plan and the report of the staffing requirements assessment to 
the Association for its prompt review and comment; and (c) thereafter, implement said 
strategic plan, giving due consideration to the Association’s view thereon. 
 
11. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, by no later than December 15, 2006, 
MOF shall establish a change management unit, staffed with competent managers and 
personnel in sufficient numbers and provided with adequate resources; said Unit to be 
responsible for planning, sequencing and implementing activities for the reform and 
modernization of GDVC.  
12. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, by no later than June 30, 2007, MOF 
shall prepare a draft comprehensive integrity and anti-corruption program in Customs 
services, taking into consideration the provisions of the Revised Arusha Declaration on 
Integrity in Customs by the World Customs Organization, and provide said draft program 
to the Association for its prompt review and comments. 
13. 
MOF shall: (a) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, by no later than 
September 30, 2006, prepare a detailed national training plan for Customs officers and 
staff; (b) provide said plan to the Association for its prompt review and comments; and 
(c) thereafter, carry out said plan, giving due consideration to the Association’s view 
thereon. 
Monitoring and Reporting 
14. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, (i) on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, 
commencing July 31, 2006, a semi-annual report; and (ii) on or about December 31, 
2007, a mid-term report; in each case integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 14, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
promptly review with the Association each such report referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph 14, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
Page  27
-
25
-
25
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and 
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR14,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
Page  28
-
26
-
26
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  29
-
27
-
27
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
