Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI, IISE ONLY
Report No. 7533
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SOMALIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1043-SO)
DECEMBER 8, 1988
Industry and Energy Divieion
East Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
Trhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wasington, DC 20433
USA
O0ke to oveom-~8
December 8, 1988
HEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDEN:
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Democratic Republic of Somalia
Petroleum Exploration Promotion P..iect (Credit 1043-SO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Democratic Republic of Somalia - Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project (Credit 1043-SO)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
Full evaluation of this project has not been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SOMALIA                     FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
Credit 1043-SO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface....               ..... .......      ....         se* .. . * -  *  ...
Basic Data Sheett..                              ................. ii
Highlig htt s                                iV
I. INTRODUCTION .....1
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.                                  3
Origin of the Project.                                                          3
Project Preparation and Appraisal ................................  3
III . IMPLEMENTATION.                                                                      5
Implementation Plan.                                                            5
Changes In Project Schedule.                                                    7
Changes in Project Scope ..........................8...-..........  8
Reporting and Auditing ...........................................  8
Project Costs                                 .9
Disbursements .------------ 10
Performance of Consultants .---------------- 10
Performance of Contractor ..........................1.0--........ -0
IV.   PROJECT RESULTS ..........................------------------- 11
Technical  Assistance ...........................-----.... 11
Promotion Outcome ..........................                                   11
V.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ..........................                              13
Organization and Management ..................................                 13
VI.   BANK PERFORMANCE ..................................                               13
.VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ..................................   14
ANNEXES
1. Project Costs ..................                                                      16
2.  Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements .17
3. Contract Implementation Schedule .8
ATTACHMENT
Comments from the Borrower .19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MAPS
1.   IBRD 20039 (.Map as of March 1980)
2.   IBRD 20037 (Map  of Acreage Situation Early .982)
3.   IBRD 20038 (Contracted and open areas as of August 1986)
4.   IBRD 20062 (Seismic program as implemented)
5.   IBRD 20063 (Latest Structural Map)



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SOMALIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Credit 1043-SO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
Credit 1043-SO (Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project) in the
amount of US$6.0 million was approved on November 7, 1980, to assist the
Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources (MMWR), the Government's entity
responsible for all petroleum exploration in the country, in fina..cing and
implementing the project. The project's main objectives of supporting the
Government's efforts to intensify exploration for petroleum resources in
the country, and to improve its planning of the energy sector, were largely
met. To make up for start-up delays, some administrative bottlenecks and
initially a lack of availability of IDA funds, the Credit was e.ctended by
24 months to December 31, 1985. At closing, the Credit was fully
disbursed.
This Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Technical
Department of the Africa Region of the World Bank, based on reports, data
and documents in the project files. The borrower has reviewed the report
and his comments have been considered and incorporated in the text.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
OED sent copies of the draft report to the Borrower and the comments
received have been attached as an Attachment to the Report.



- ii -
SOMALIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1043-SO
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal         Actual or
Estimate         Re-estimate
1. Total Project Cost                       7.2               n.a.
2. Credit Amount                            6.0               6.0
3. Credit Amount Disbursed                  6.0               6.0
4. Physical Components Completed           06/83             C6/85
5. Proportion Completed by above date (Z)  70                 100
6. Proportion of Time Overrun (Z)                              92
7. Financial Performance                   Poor              Good
8. Institutional Performance                Poor             Good
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY81     FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85
(i)    Appraisal Estimate    2.05       5.39      6.0      -         -
(ii)    Actual                 0.12      2.88      4.24    5.82      6.0
(iii)    (ii) as 2 of (i)       6        53        71        -         -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original   .....Revised   Actual
Negotiations                           04.21.80          -       04.25-30.80
Board Approval                         06.10.80          -      06.10.80
Credit Agreement Date                     n.a.           -       11.07.80
Effective Date                         10.31.80          -       04.30.81
Closing Date                           12.31.83       12.31.84  12.31.85
Date all Physical Components Completed
(i) T.A. - Exploration Consultants    06.30.83           -      07.31.84
(ii) T.A. - Legal Consultants          06.30.83          -      12.31.85
(iii) S.A. - Accounting Consultants   06.30.83           -      12.31.85
(iv) Afgoy - Coriole Seismic Survey   11.30.81           -      08.15.83
(v) En2rgy Planning                    1 .31.81          -      05.01.86
(vi) Training                          12.31.83          -      12.31.85
(vii) Other Studies (Oil Shale)        12.31.81          -        None
(viii) Promotion                       01.31.81          -      09.15.82
(ix) Negotiations with oil Comapnies  06.30.81           -      03.31.84
Total Project Cost (US$ million)           7.2           -
Overrun                                     -            -
Borrower                        Denmocratic Republic of Somalia
Executing Agency                Ministry of Minerals & Water Resources
Fiscal Year of Borrower         January 01 - December 31
Follow-up Project               Afgoy Gas Delineation Project



- iii -
Credit                                      1464 -SO
Amount in million                           SDR 17.5 (appr. US$18.0)
Credit Agreement Date                      .Sune 27, 1984
MISSION DATA
Month,    No. of    No. of    Man-          Date of
Year       Weeks      Persons   weeks       Report
Identification               09.23.79       2            2        4
Preparation                   11.13.79      1.5          3        4.5       11.29.79
Preappraisal/Appraisal        01.20.80      1.5          2        3         02.08.80
TOTAL:                            -         5            7       11.5            -
Supervision   1                 05.24.80   1.4        1          1.4        06.1o.80
2               09.28.80   1.4         2          2.8        10.24.80
3               11.23.80   1.4        2           2.8        12.11.80
4               06.04.81   1.5         2          3          08.12.81
5               01.31.32   1.5         3          4.5        02.21.82
6               05.20.82   1.1         2          2.2          n.a.
7               06.07.82   0.6        4           2.4          n.a.
8               08.09.82   1.3        4           5.2        08.23.82
9               09.13.83   0.6         3          1.8        09.22.82
10 (*)           01.13.83   2          2           3          02.24.83
11 (*)           06.19.83   1.2        3           3.6        08.05.83
12 (*)           07.21.83   0.3        3           0.9        07.26.83
13 (*)           08.11.83   0.3        3           0.9        08.25.83
14 (*)           09.11.83   0.7        2           1.4        '0.05.83
15 (*)           12.04.83   0.8        2           1.6        :2.30.83
16 (*)           05.10.84   0.6         3          1.8        06.11.84
17 (*)           09.03.84   1.3         3          3.9        10.09.84
18 (*)           11.11.84   Q.3        3           2.4        01.23.85
19 (*)           02.10.85   0.8        3           2.4        04.22.85
20 (')           03.31.85   0.9         1          0.9        04.24.85
21 (*)           08.12.85   0.5         3          1.5        10.25.85
Completion                          -        -        -           -             -
TOTAL:                                     21.0                 53.4
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of currency                            Somali Shilling (So. Sh.)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average (1980)                 US$1 = 6.295
Intervening Years Average                     US$l = 19.59
Completion Year Average (1985)                US$1 = 42.50
*  Indicates mission dealing in part with new project, and therefore
adjusted for sharing time.



DEYOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SOMALIA
PETR.OLE!M EXPLORATIO PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1043-SO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.       The IDA Credit under review, in the amount of US$6.0 million, helped
finance a petroleum exploration promotion project for the prospective onshore
and offshore areas of Somalia. The beneficiary of the credit and executing
agency was the Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources (MMWR) which is in
charge of all matters concerning petroleum exploration activities.
2.        Somalia has a small energy resource potential.  Forested lands are
the main domestic energy source but indiscriminate use of wood and lack of
reforestation have seriously diminished this potential. The hydro poten-
tial, although largely undeveloped, does not exceed about 130 MW. Despite
recent substantial energy petroleum exploration activities, no oil or gas
has yet been discovered in commercial quantities although numerous oil and
gas shows have been detected. Reported oil shale deposits turned out to be
very poor in hydrocarbon content. Coal, in small occurrences in northern
Somalia, is not attractive due to thin seams and high ash and sulphur con-
tent. Renewables such as bagasse from sugarcane contribute in a small way
to stedm nd electricity generation; wind and solar energy have been the
subject of pilot projects under bilateral financial assistance. Some geo-.
thermal potential is present, however this has not been investigated fully.
3.       At proJect appraisal, domestically produced wood and charcoal met
almost three quarters of Somalia's energy nieeds, petroleum is-n rts the other
25 percent, in this manner covering virtually all the modern commercial energy
demand. About 85Z of Somalia's total energy supply, in the form of biomass
(firewood, charcoal, etc.), is used mainly for household purposes. Power
generation was, and is, based almost entirely on petroleun products - mainly
diesel and, for the Mogadishu area, bunker fuel. Accordirngly, increasing
consumption rates and rapidly growing petroleum prices were straining the
balance of payments and affecting negatively Somalia's economic growth. Other
than conservation and substitution the only available means for alleviating
this difficult sitvation was, and still is, to explore for and develop pos-
sible hydrocarbon reserves in prospective areas of Somalia. In this context,
the project had the double objective of promoting exploration by internationa'
oil companies and strengthening the capacity of the Government (GOS) to manage
the energy sector in general and the petroleum subsector in particular. The
first objective was addressed by preparing an exploration promot_on report
that reviewed and compiled previous work with additional surveys (geological
and geophysical), and by modernizing the legal/fiscal framework for petroleum
exploration and production. This preliminary work led to the organized promo-
tion of free acreage. The other objective was addressed by providing tech-
nical assistance to MMWR to supervise petroleum activities and negotiate



modern exploration/production agreements, training of MMWR staff, and by
assistance to GOS in energy planning. A separate component consisted of a
seismic survey over the potentially gas-bearing area of Afgoy-Coriole, near
Mogacishu.
4.       Project implementation had a slow start due to MMWR administrative
inexperience in IDA projects, delays in the availability of IDA funds and also
slow decision-making within GOS. However, once the procedures were
understood, pro'i:ct implementation including the selection of consultants
moved more rapidly. Since some local costs during the seismic survey had to
be absorbed under the project (given the particularly acute lack of funds of
GOS), and the contemplated local expenses for the consulting firms (house
rental, vehicle rental, local workers hiring) did not materialize, the project
was completed with a large cost underrun (US$1.1 million equivalent).
However, all credit funds were disbursed.
5.       All the data available at the onset ot the oroject in the M-MWR files
were organized and microfiched to procuce a oata base. Old seismic surveys
(mostly pre-1970 vintage) and all suosur:ace inrormation '2more cnan 56 dry
holes) were compiled and presented in a Dromocionai report tor sale to
interested companies. A promotion meering organized in Houston in i982
resulted in three companies being actua'., interested in negotiating tor
exploration blocks. Two expLoration agreements Lor nine olocKs were later
finalized under the new petroleum law prepared oy the COS consuLtants. A
seismic survey of about 650 line-km over rne Atgoy-Cor:ole block indicated tne
existence of several structural reAtures. A semi-deLalied aadition of abouc
175 line-km was recorded over the Afgoy area where a gas discovery haa been
reported by Sinclair et al in 196.   l.s ied to the  .ext project - Afgoy Gas
Delineation Project (Cr. 1464-SO).  No special studies were recommended under
the project and the oil shale study was orcpped because the occurrence of oi.
shale could not be confirmed. The energy planning study was a pioneering
effort, and was carried out under difficult conditions and with an almost
complete lack of data. Nevertheless, a substantiai amount of work was done.
They have now been superseded by the subsequent Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment
report which could build on the study. Among its contributions were the
generation of data particularly in the rural energy sector, but it failed in
its attempts to analyze the sector in its entirety and to provide fully
convincing policy recommendations. Further analyses will be forthcoming under
the Power Rehabilitation Project.
6.       Although not all the proect components were successful, -he two
basic aims of the project - attracting oiL companies to explore in Somalia and
the institutionaL strengthening of M.MWR buiLding were achieved.  In March
1984, Exxon and Elf signed exploration agreements (IBRD 20037) for a total of
nine blocks. But as a late fall-out of the exploration prcmotion effort and
of the impact of the important Hunt Oil discovery in N. Yemen, five new
contracts covering 13 blocks (IBRD 20038) were recently negotiated. As of
August 1987 a total of 7 international oil companies (Amoco, Shell, Conoco,
CIPC, Chevron, Occidental, and AgiP) have taken an acreage position in Somalia
with another 5 expressing interest. Exploration work underway consists of
geolugical, geophysical and drilling operations.



- vi -
7.       The lessons learned from this project can be applied to similar
lending operations by the Bank Group. They are:
(a)   There should be close project supervision by IDA staff through
frequent missions and close contacts with consultants and
contractors;
(b)   The potential benefits of training activities are limited due to the
severe constraints faced by the public sector as d whule;
(c)   It is unrealistic te expect a Government with severe financial
constraints to prov4de timely financing of local costs for
contractors and consultants; such costs should be -^rried by IDA;
(d)   It is important to obtain firm commitments as to the compensation to
be paid for damages; in this case to farmers affected by the seismic
survey.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SOMALIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT 1043-SO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODJCTION
Energy Resource Base
1.01     The project under review was the first lending operation in the
petroleum sector of Somalia. While petroleum accounts for nearly 252 of
total energy consumption, petroleum demand is satisfied entirely through
imports. A 250.000-ton refinery near Mogadishu, which until recently was
owned jointly with Iraq, processes primarily Saudi crude. The actual
refinery configuration is such that it is not adapted to the local market as
it produces about 501 of heavy fuel. Gas oil represents 502 of petroleum
products consumption, followed by gasoline and fuel oil (about 202 each), and
kerosene, jet fuel and LPG account ior the balance. In 1979, when the
project was appraised, petroleum imports were becoming a growing burden on
Somalia's balance of payments. They amounted at that time to nearly US$43
million (net of fuel oil exports of about US$14 million), or about 26Z of
eyport earnings. Rising oil prices were expected to boost the petroleum
import bill at a time when exports were decreasing, even when oil imports
were subsidized in part by Saudi Arabia. Somalia was facing severe energy
prollems because of a narrow and poorly developed resource base and
ina.e,juate pricing policies. The country therefore decided to intensify the
search for its own petroleum resources, and the Government (GOS) turned to
the Bank for help in promoting its prospective areas to private oil companies
in the hope of discovering and developing domestic hydrocarbon resources.
Institutional and Legal Framework
1.02     The central authority for cartying out petroleum and mining
activities in Somalia is the Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources (MMWR),
and within the Ministry, the Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DMH). Ti;e
Ministry is thus responsible for all policy matters relating to hydrocarbon
upstream activities and their organization.
1.03     The Mining Code of 1970 and its regulations of 1971 governed
petroleum exploration and production until limited amendments to the Mining
Code were promulgated in the form of a new Mining Code dated January 9, 1984.
The Amendments were made to facilitate the new and more modern form of
petroleum concession agreements which was prepared in conjunction with the
lending legislation. The concession agreement includes the principal forms
of fiscal levy, royalty, income taxation and a supplementary revenue tax
(SRT). The SRT is bacdU on the profitability of the venture of the oil



-2-
company concerned, and escalates as higher levels of real rates-of-return are
achieved. The model contract provides for a maximum exploration period of six
years including extensions, and a production period of 25 years.
Status of Exploration
1.04     Petroleum pr?spective sedimentary areas cover about 90 percent of the
land area (637,140 km ) and all of the offshore continental shelf out to the
200 m depth (about 300,003 ki. ).  Inasmuch as each of the prospective basins
has a different geological setting the stratigraphic and structural objectives
differ somewha. in each basin. Briefly, Somalia has widespread and
appreciable thicknesses (up to 30,000 feet aggregate) of marine deltaic
Jurassic, Cretaceous and Tertiary sedimentary strata. It also contains
favorable porous and permeable reservoir rocks (limestones, limestone reefs,
bioclastic lenses and sandstones), demonstrated oil/gas potential source
rocks, and structural and/or combination traps of various sizes. Somalia has
thus a large oil and gas potential which remains largely untested. At the
time of project appraisal these areas had been explored during three main
exploration cycles.  In all some 54 wells had been drilled (roughly an onland
density of one well in 10,000 km2, which is low), numerous oil and gas shows
encountered, but no commercial discovery was made.  All exploration activity
ceased from 1977 to 1979. A renewed Government effort in 1978 to attract
foreign oil companies had, by 1979, only a marginal result in that two
companies, Arco in the Mudugh Basin and Texaco in the Lamu Emoayment,
separately negotiated for exploration permits in 1979. The petroleum
potential of Somalia, though still not fully evaluated, was deemed
sufficiently interesting to warrant the organized effort of promocing the
various sedimentary basins. In this context, the GOS requested assistance
from the Association in financing an exploracion promotion project.
Project Objectives
1.05     The project's ma;n objectives were to assist the Government in:
(a) preparing a synthesis for sale to interested companies, of all information
acquired pre'iol-ly by foreign operators across the entire territory; (b)
organizing its exploration data base; (c) establishing a modern petroleum law
with proper accounting and reporting systems; (d) preparing a promotion
meeting to offer exploration acreage to the petroleum industry; (e) carrying
out a seismic survey to enhance the geological knowledge of the Afgoy-Coriole
area which is rich in oil/gas shows (Afgoy-l and Coriole-l); (f) establishing
in the energy sector a data base for policy decisions, analyzing priority
issues and establishing the framework for continuous sectoral planning
capability; and finally (g) assisting in the training of professionals, the
purchasing of office and field macerial and equipment. Financing of the
project was provided by an IDA Credit (Credit 1043-SO) in the amount of US$6.0
millicn to cover the full foreign exchange costs of the pro,ect. Estimated
local costs amounting to US$1.2 million equivalent were to be financed by the
Government.
1.06     This report is based on documents and reports existing in the
project's files and discussions with some consultants and Government
officials.



-3-
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin of the Project
2.01     Though some preliminary petroleum exploration was carried out in the
1920s, it started in earnest after World War II when Shell became active in
the former British Somaliland and Sinclair and Agip in the former Italian
Somalia. Since then, BP, Gulf, CONOCO (Conorada), Texaco, Elf and others
acquired and relinquished acreage after carrying out geological and
geophysical surveys and exploratory drilling (54 wells). Then all aeivity
ceased in 1974. At the time of the project identification mission (September
1979), international oil companies began to show some new interest in Somalia,
possibly due to the change in political orientation of the country.
2.02     Government negotiations with two oil companies marked the end of a
two-year lull in activiiies.  ARCO negotiated an exploration block of
approxmately 140,000 km  covering the entire Mudugh Basin including the
offshore and Texaco a block in the Lamu Embayment between the Juba Valley and
the Kenyan border. In fact, ARCO's block was so huge (IBRD 20039) that the
IDA identification mission advised MMWR that the size of the ARCO concession
was too large compared with most concessions in other countries, and that it
would remove the area for a long time with minimal work commitment and minimaL
relinquishments. At the same time, the GOS in an effort to attract oil
companies in the offshore of the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden, financed
60 percent of a speculative marine seismic survey carried out by GECO of
Norway. (Under the normal circumstances prevailing at the time, the
geophysical firm should rather have footed the entire cost and possibly paid
either a dividend or a lump sum to the COS). However, the general attitude
towards Somalia by the oil industry was one of indifference although two
companies (Cities Service and Shell) subsequently to project appraisal signed
contracts for offshore tracts. It is in this context, and the very difficult
balance-of-payment situation, that the COS presented a request for assistance
from the World Bank Group to intensify exploration and modernize the petroleum
legislation.
2.03     The IDA identification mission found that there was a need to
modernize the legal/contractual framework and to promote systematically Somali
exploration acreage. Due to the activities of the oil companies over the
years, the mission also found that there existed significant information about
the peLroleum potential of Somalia, but the information was scattered in
various areas of the Ministry and even in other ministries, and considerable
portions of the information could only be found in the files of the oil
ccnpanies. In addition, the state of preservation of the available
information was often deficient and there was no overview presenting
systematically the various positive aspect3 of the petroleum potential.
Against this background the mission identified a possible project which was
agreed to by OS.
Project Preparation and Appraisal
2.04     An IDA missior. prepared and appraised the project in January 1980 in
light of the project objectives mentioned above. From a review of incomplete
files and vintage seismic data, it was concluded that many of the 54
exploration wells drilled over the years had in fact been on doubtful



-4-
structural prospects. Only 20 of the wells had been drilled subsequent to the
introduction of multiple se:smic coverage in Africa (after 1964) and only
seven of these after digital seismic had progressed enoigh to eliminate
successfully most multiples. Cumulative drilling density in 1980 was low - 54
wells drilled in alL or one onshore well per 11,000 km2 and one offshore weLl
per 100,000 km2.  It appeared that the country was underexplored dnd in need
of a more intensive exploration effort. A number of structures and
combination prospects had not been fully tested - diapir domes, horst and
tilted fault blocks of rift tectonics, reef and shoal plays. In short, the
unconsolidated results oi past exploration was inadequate to establish firmly
Somalia's petroleum potential. Furthermore, GOS was interested in developing
rapidly the Afgoy-Coriole gas and/or gas-condensate possibilities as a
reliable domestic source of energy. In this framework, the Bank agreed to
support the Government's aim to: (i) redirect efforts to lease acreage to oil
companies through a complete reassessment of its petroleum potential and a
revamping of the relevant legislation; (ii) assist in assessing t e Afgoy-
Coriole prospects through a modern seismic survey; and (iii) improve its
planning strategy for the development of the energy sector.
2.05     The scope of the project consisted of the following four components:
(A)   Technical Assistance to Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DMH)
(a)  Advisory Exploration Consultants (48 man-months)
(i)  to secure, evaluate and compile available surface and
subsurface information in Somalia, and prepare maps,
profiles and reports carrying new ideas to explore For
hvdrocarbons;
(ii) to devise a strategy for promoting the petroLeum
potenrial to oil companies;
(iii) to prepare a detailed seismic program on the Afgoy-
Coriole prospects;
(i,) to help the legal and accounting consultants with
improving and modernizing the legal and contractual
framework for exploratLon and production;
(v) to help administer the acreage bidding procedure
(including definition of permits, pr-paration of data
package, evaluation of bids);
(vi)  to provide support to the COS team during negotiations
with oil companies;
(vii) to help monitor the work of operating companies; and
(viii) to devise and help the training of professional staff.
(b)  Lega: ConsuLtants to uncertake the modernization of the
petroieum legislation (Mining Code Regulations and a Model
Contract) and to support the Covernment during negotiations.
(c)  Petroleum Accounting Consult;,nts to establish r petroleuim
accouncing and auditing svstem designed to monitor and audit
expenditures of operating companies.
(d)  Training of Professionals  Geologists, geophysicists, lawyers,
accountants and economists to be trained on-the-job, through
special courses or in seminars.



(e) Special Studies if warranted.
(f) Purchase of Office and Field Equipment needed to support the
work of the consultants and store geological and geophysical
data.
(B)      Geophysical Survey of the Afgoy-Coriole Prospects
Possibly 700 line-km over this gas prospective area aimed at
confirming whether the structures were worthy of further
exploration efforts.
(C)      Assessment of the Oil Shale Deposits in the Northern Regions
Reported oil shale and oil seeps to be checked and their
evaluation undertaken. This component turned out to be
unwarranted (para 3.11).
(D)      Energy Planning to assust the Government in establishing a data
base for policy decisions, analyzing priority issues in the
sector, preparing the framework for continuous sectoral planning
and creating a national energy planning capability.
2.06     Credit negotiations were held in Washington in April 1980 and the
Credit was approvee ay the Board on June 10, 1980.
2.07     The Credit became effective on April 30, 1981.  Although there
were no special conditions of effectiveness, the Credit was deemed
effective once the consultants were identified.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Plan
3.01     The Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DMH) in the Ministry of
Mineral and Water Resources (MMWR) managed the project with the assistance
of an exploration consulting firm which provided terhnical, advisory and
administrative support on an as-needed basis. Other consulting firms, such
as a law firm and an accounting firm, contributed their share of assistance
in the revamping of the Mining Code and preparation of a model contract
establishing an accounting/auditing system and providing advisory support
during negotiations with oil companies. The Ministry formed a full-time
implementation unit, officially called the Directorate of Hydrocarbons
(DH), and manned by counterpart professionals. The DH fully participated
in all the project activities.
Technical Assistance to the DMH
3.02     The exploration consultancy contract was signed in May 1981 for a
three-year duration. The consultants were required to:
(a) recover all past exploration information (surface and
subsurface) from the GOS' offices or from previous operators
for consolidation in a single file;



-6-
(b)   rework and compile the information;
(c)   prepare a promotion report for sale to interested companies and
organize a promotion meeting to attract companies to explore in
Somalia;
(d)   organize and administer the exploration bidding (including definition
of permits, preparation of data package, analysis of bids);
(e)   advise the DMH on all steps of exploration and in particular during
negotiations and to help monitor the work of operating companies;
(f)   support the legal consultants in their effort to modernize the
petroleum legislation;
(g)   design and implement a training program for DMH professionals; and
(h)   prepare the seismic prograrr for the Afgoy-Coriole survey, and control
the quality of the acquisition and processing phases of said survey.
All these activities were implemented in a satisfactory way; however,
the promotion report lacked an evaluation of each basin and some geochemical
considerations in support of Somalia prospectiveness.
3.03     The legal consultancy contract was signed in October 1981 to
undertake che modernization of the existing petroleum legislation, and to
assist the Government during negotiations with oil companies. After some
initial hesitation, the COS decided to adopt a type of contract based on
sliding-scale rates-of-return which trigger different levels of special
taxes. Both the exploration and the accounting consultants participated in
the elaboration of the new legislation including the regulations. These were
promulgated in February 1984. The legal consultancy contract with its
extensions came to an end in December 1985 under Credit 1043-SO, but has been
continued under Credit 1464-SO.
3.04     The a':counting consultancy contract was to prepare an
accounting/auditing system to help monitor oil companies' activities.  The
consultants also trained two local accountants and assisted the DMH with
organizing their project accounts.
3.05     The training of some Somali professionals took place either on the
job, or in the case of four persons (one geophysicist, one geologist and two
accountants) on the premises of the consultancy firms (exploration and
accounting consultants) for a total of about 20 months. In addition, several
professionals and 4MRW officials had various opportunities to attend
professional gatherings including promotion and negotiation meetings. The
training of the professionals resulted by and large in improving their skills
and in widening their understanding of the oil industry. However, in a few
instances the trainees were not able to take full advantage of the
opportunities offered, due to their limited backgrounds. In addition, the
whole civil service in Somalia suffers from a profound lack of motivation due
to very low salaries and the prevalent management practices. In this cortext,
any training of groups or individuals can only have limited results in terms
of operational performance.



3.06     The purchase of office and field equipment was limited to copying
machine, minicomputer, telex machine and filir.g material for logs and
reports. The Afgoy-Coriole seismic tapes are presently being stored with the
seismic contractor.
3.07     The Geophysical Survey over the Afgoy-Coriole area in Block 9 (IBRD
20037 and 20062) consisted of seismic acquisition and processing along
approximately 810 line-km. The field work started in August 1982 and was
completed in March 1983 without encountering major problems. Data processing
was done in Houston, Texis with quality control supervision carried out by the
exploration consulting team. The data processing covered the period from
August 1982 through June 1983 utilizing an IBM 4341 and Petty-Ray software.
All the state-of-the-art techniques were used, and the processed lines were
made available for interpretation as soon as each line was completed. The
interpretation phase of the survey was undertaken by the exploration
consultant who also used the help of the Somali trainees during part of the
work. The interpretation phase ended in early September 1983. The survey
indicated that the Coriole structure was on a different trend from the Afgoy
prospect, and tniat there is another separate trend referred to as the coastal
structural trend. FauLting is abundant throughout the surveyed area and
creates interpretation difficulties.  Seven prospects were idencified in the
surveyed area, and the exploration consuLtants recommended to the CMWR that a
well be drilled at a location corresponding to their interpretation apex.
3.08     The energy planning consultancy contract was for assisting the
Covernment in estaDlishing a database, anaLyzing priority issOes danQ
establishing the framework for continuous sectoral planning. Thii waS a
pioneering effort in Somalia, and it was handi-apped by a significant ,ack ot
reliable statistical information. The work was finalized in earLy 1986.
3.09     Since quite a large amount of funds were still available -nder the
category of Special Studies, at the time of preparation of t'he follow-up
project (Afgoy Gas Delineation), the Government decided and the 3ank agreed to
make use of the unused funds for preparing said project under the special
studies category of the credit   A per-oleum consulting firm was hired to make
an engineering study of the Afgoy-l well results, and to design the gas
project. At the same time, this firm was required to serve (under the
subsequent credit) as exploration advisers to DMH during the contemplated
drilling operations and subsequently for ongoing exploration monitoring, in
replacement of the initial advisers whcse contract came to an end. The
services of a drilling management firm were also contracted to preoare the
drilling operations.
Changes In Project Schedule
3.10     Initial delays were due to lack of availaDle IDA funds, which delayed
effectiveness. At the onset of project imV:ementation, delays for selecting
consultants were piling up because of: (a) poor preparation of submitted
proposals and their genz,al lack of responsiveness; und (b) lack of
familiarity by the Borrower with *he Bank recommended procedures. Therefore
the exploration consulting firm and the energy planning firm were contracted
to start in June 1981, about one year later than forecasted. Legal and
accounting consultants were contracted even later. These considerable initial



delays were coupled with unavoidable additional delays during project
implementation, such as extension of seismic survey and slower interpretation
than expected, and repeated problems with the intermediate reports in energy
planning. These problems led ultimately to a two year delay in prcject
completion.
Changes in Project. Scope
3.11      The main change in scope has concerned Part C of the Credit Agreement
- the assessment of tlhe Northern Regions oil shale deposits, which was dropped
in it: entirety. The exploration consultants early in their employment made
an attemot to reach the two areas where oil shale reportedly crop out. Due to
continuing unsettled border conditions, only the Bihendula shale zone could be
visited. Samples of apparently kerogen-rich shales turned out to be merely
normally rich shale after laboratory analyses. These marine, fossiliferous
shales of Jurassic age, found in a graben structural environment, have a
certain oil-source potential, and thus might have played a role in generating
hydrocarbons. Oil recovered from tests in the Dagah Shabel-3 well south of
Berbera supports this interpretation. However, surface samples are
notoriously insufficient to support a final conclusion, particularly in an
arid climate due to deep weathering. Trench and or pit digging and core
drilling are necessary in order to reach che unweathered layers for proper
sampling. But the lack of wacer in a desert environment (necessary for an oil
shale operation), the remoteness of the area, and also the rather poor
security prevailing at the time, helped MIMWR decide to abandon this part uf
the project.  Further:re, the intention of developing an oil shale operation
in a cou try deprived of and remote from hydrocarbon production (roughly three
bbi of oil equivalent are needed to produce four bbi of shale oil) can be
questioned on a purely material balance point of view. The funds initially
set aside for the oil-shale component were reallocated.
3.12      Another change in pro-ect scope was the extension of the Afgoy-
Cor:o.e selismic survey by another 160 Line-Km of detailed work over the gas
prcspective Afgoy structure, or a total of 810 line-km.  This addition delayed
the seismic interpretation by five months.
3.13      When the results of the Afgoy detailed seismic curvey were available,
a major change in project scope was seriously considered, viz. the reentry of
Sinclair well Afgoy-l which had significant gas shows, since at that time in
excess of US$1 million could have been made available under the credit.
Though the OS agreed with such a change, a detailed cost computation showed
that the amount available was not adequate to cover the envisaged operaticn
given the risks involved, and the reentry possibly was therefore not pursued
further.
3.14      These changes in project scope ccntributed to the project delays.
Nevertheless, prcject funds were entirely disbursed with time.
Renorting and Auditing
3.15      Under strong Bank prodding, MMWR finally produced an activity report
in October 1983 that covered 1981, 1982 and the first half of 1983. No other
report (neither quarterly nor anrual) has been received since then, although
the var.c_s consul'tants producec periodic reports on ;heir activities that



-9-
when taken together covered all the activities of the project. Auditing of
the accounts was performed by the Government's auditing agency in 1983 to
cover the years 1981 and 1982 and in 1984 to cover 1983. The 1984 and 1985
accounts were audited by .YXWR's external auditors. Both audits covered also
the IMWR's special account established with the Central Banit of Somalia for
recording the sale of promotion reports and expenditures in relation to
petroleum promotion. In short, ~MWR has been lax with their reporting
commitments, but generally prompt in producing satisfactory audited
accounts.
Procurement
3.16     DMH complied fully with IDA's procurement guidelines.  The technical
assistance contracts (exploration consulting, legal, accounting, energy
planning, negotiation specialist) were all awarded on the basis of selections
made upon technical merits of proposals received from IDA-approved shortlists
of consultants. The Association approved each of the appointments.
3.17     Procurement for the seismic acquisition contract and for the seismic
processing contract was done through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.18     To the best knowledge of Bank staff supervising the project,
procurement procedures created no problems for )M.H. No procurement problems
arose during project implementation. For a first time borrower, MNWR was
exemplary in following the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Project Costs
3.19     The following table compares the actual project costs with the
appraisal estimates. A more detailed presentation of costs is in Annex i.
P,c,ect Costs Taole
'  'Ai II ion
Dprai saj                                Actual
I-ocal  Foreign  Totdl                  Local  Foreign  Total
T,A. to DMH          0.375    2.445  2.820   T,A. to OMH      0.060    2.008  2.068
Geophysical Survey   0.400    2.100  2.500   Geopmysical Survey  0.000    2.940  2.940
Energy Planning      0.25    0.225  0.250   Energy Planning   0.000    0.274  0.274
Subtotal           0.800    4.770  5.570
Contingencies        0.^00    '.230  1.630   3elin. Dril. Prep.  0.003    0.778  0.781
Total                1.200    6.000  7.200   Toital           0.063    6.000  6.063
3.20     The project was completed with an estimated cost underrun of US$1.1
million, due to the fact that some estimated local expenditures did not occur,
and also because IDA agreed to finance, as part of the geophysical contract,
the local costs of the seismic survey. This was done in order to ensure the
timely implementation of the survey in view of GOS' very difficult financial
position which could have caused very long and costly delays. However, IDA
assumed that an understanding existed for GOS to pay compensation



- 10 -
to any local farmers that might be affected by the seismic survey. It turned
out later that ti.is was not the case, and no compensation was paid. This was
unfortunate, although it is likely that the affected farmers suffered only
moderate losses. In order to avoid a repetition of this problem, adequate
safeguards were agreed for the subsequent Afgoy gas project.
Disbursements
3.21     The disbursement schedule prepared during appraisal was modified to
incorporate the changes in the scope of work as well as to reflect the
unavoidable delays in project start-up.
Cumulative Credit Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Fiscal                      Appraisal
Year                       Forecast                Actual
1981                        2.050                  0.116
1982                        5.390                  1.939
1983                        6.000                  4.236
1984                          -                    5.199
1985                                               5.885
1986                                               6.000
3.22     Disbursements started in the last quarter of FY81 shortly after the
credit was declared effective. The disbursement schedule was based on the
initial project schedule, but since this schedule was modified more than one
time, disbursement lagged correspondingly. At the end of the initial closing
date, only 712 of the credit was disbursed, and at the end of the first
extension (December 1984), 87Z. Finally, at the end of the second extension,
(December 1985) 98Z was already disbursed, leaving just a few amounts to be
paid over the subsequent few months for work performed before the final
closing date.
Performance of Consultants
3.23     Most of the consultants - the legal firm, the accountiag firm, the
exploration and engineering firm, the drilling management firm - performed
commendably. The initial exploration technical assistance firm and the
individual negotiation adviser had a more uneven performance, whereas the
performance of the energy planning firm was less than satisfactory in some
aspects in spite of substantial IDA assistance. The results of the
engineering/exploration firm were somewhat disappointing, although this might
be attributed to the quality of data with which they were working. However,
the final report met reasonable minimum standards.
Performance of Contractors
3.24     The seismic acquisition and processing for a total cost of
US$2,940,579 were all executed satisfactorily without undue problems other
than normal field problems. The work was done in a business-like and
professional manner. The recording parameters and the energy source (96
channels, 24 geophones per trace, 4 vibrators) were well thought out and
represented state-of-the-art techniques. Although the deeper data were not
as good as one would hope, this is due, most likely, to geological
conditions.



- 11 -
It is, however, possible that the processing could be improved with current
state-of-the-art techniques. The application of such techniques is largely a
question of trial-and-error at the time of processing. It would therefore
have been advantageous for IDA's technical staff to be present during
processing in order to consider and test such techniques.
IV. PROJECT RESULTS
Technical Assistance
4.01     The results of petroleum promotion projects are often difficult to
determine with precision. They are successful when a fair amount of acreage
is taken up by oil companies for active exploration, particularly if wildcat
drilling is undertaken, but such results take time to materialize and are also
heavily dependent on political and technical factors outside of the
projects. In the case of the Somalia project, the following results can be
listed:
(a)   promotion - preparation of a promotion report and organization of a
well attended promotion meeting;
(b)   response to the promotion eLrort
- immediate negotLacions with three oil companies for i; blocks, or
which two signed exploration ageernents;
-  followi'g a renewed effort, negotiations with five oil companies
for approximateLy 13 blocks, some with seismic options and some
with dr.Llirz ccmmitmentc;
(c)   establishment of a modern pecroleum legislation;
(d)   organization of an accounting auditing system for monitoring che
activities of oil companies;
(e)   implementation of a seismic survey in the Afgoy-Coriole area of
Block 9; and
(f)   successful training of professionals.
Promotion Outcome
4.02     The form,l  rornotion presentation was made in Houston on
September 14, 1983, and attracted representatives of 14 oil companies.  About
ten promotion reports were sold. The agenda of the meeting consisted of a
technical session in the morning and legal/contractual and accounting
presentations in the afternoon. The next day the OS delegation including the
Minister of Mines and Water Resources held discussions with some interested
company officials concerning the bidding process and the amount of support by
the Government. Several representatives at that time requested that the
deadline for presenting proposals be extended until February 15, 1983.
Documents such as the new Mining Code and Mining Regulations, a model



- 12 -
concession agreement and the proposed petroleum contract fiscal terms, were
handed out to the participants.
4.03     The meeting was seen as rather successful since four companies
indicated their interest in exploration blocks, both onshore and offshore.
Later on eleven companies requested a copy of the bidding documents, but only
three presented proposals around the deadline of February 15. Negotiations
resulted in two companies (Esso and Elf) signing up for in all nine blocks
(see IBRD Map No. 20038) for seismic options. Althougn a greater response had
been hoped for, the resulting exploration activity considerably exceeded that
prevailing at the time of appraisal (see IBRD Map No. 20039). This is due to
the fact that each contract was now carrfing a sizeable geophysical work
commitment in a shortened two year period. Taking into account the perceived
country risk, the fact that the Hunt Oil Alif field in North Yemen had not yet
been discovered and that the new model contract (based on variable taxation
depending on the rate-of-return), was largely untested, the results achieved
can be considered very satisfactory, partic':larly since one of the signatories
is a very lar-ge company. In this last case, negotiations bogged down at an
early stage but were revived thanks to a Bank initiative with .AMWR.
4.04      Subsequently, and in part as a result oF a renewed promotion effort,
a total of five additional companies negotiated contracts (some with firm well
commitments) for exploration acreage which was free or had been relinquished
since the time of the promotion meeting in june 1982. This represents a very
significant amount of exploration commitments, especially taking into account
the present depressed international exploration level and the fact that there
have as yet been no commercial Jiscoveries in Somalia. The new companies
were:
Chevron   -  3 blocks (one offshorei in Western Gulf of
Aden
CIPC       -  2 blocks along mid-Gulf of Aden
Occidental-  2 blocks (one offshore) near the tip of the
Horn
uonoco    -  3 blocks in the Nogal Uplift
Amoco      -  3 blocks adjacent to and including most of the
Aigoy-Coriole area (in Block 9).
4.05      In summary most of the project's goals were met, petroleum
exploration has been enhanced and organized with appropriate procedures,
professionals have been trained in petroleum exploration (geology, geophysics,
accounting, contract negotiation), petroleum legislation has been modernized
and the COS capability to monitor oil companies' activities has been
developed. Only the energy planning studies, due in part to the weakness of
the consultants, did not accomplish fully their primary purpose since the
report did not establish a satisfactory framework for continuous energy
planning.



- 13 -
V.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Organization and Management
5.01     At the time the project was appraised and for t,ae initial phase of
its implementation, the Director General of the MMWR was directly responsible
for the project, until the newly formed project unit was consolidated as the
Directorate of Hydrocarbons (DH). Since that time the DH, under the
monitoring of the Director General, dealt essentially with all matters
concerning exploration. The DH consists basically of a director, a geologist
and an accountant. Additional help was secured on an as-needed-basis from the
ministry's staff.
5.02      If, at the beginning of project implementation, MMWR had difficulties
in many aspects of the project (procurement, selection of consultants, book-
keeping and withdrawal requests,, these soon became resolved and decision
making and project execution became reabonably efficient, taking into
consideration the general problems of communicating with Somalia (very
unreliable telex and virtually nonexistent telephone service). However, the
overall petroleum administration is still weak as a result of the serious
morale and efficiency problems affecting the whole civil service in Somalia.
,.03     Most of the Credit Conditions were complied with.  Some of those
conditions were waived because they became irreLevant such as in the case of
oil shale studies (para 3.11), while ott'rs like reporting condicions were
dealt with only in part (para 3.15).
VI.   BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01     The project was properly identified and appraised.  During its
implementation, the supervision missions discussed the proposed scope changes
or suggested changes in order to streamline its execution (see paras 3.10 to
3.14).
6.02     Relations between 4MWR and IDA have heen good throughout the entire
project cycle. Possibly the most significant IDA contribution was to expedite
the preparation of the legal/fiscal framework for petroleum exploration and to
initiate the resolution of a break-down in negotiations for one contract.
6.03     The project was periodically supervised during its implementation,
with an average of 3.3 supervision missions a year.  IDA staff undertook 20
missions between May 1980 and August 1985 for an average interval of slightly
less than three months between missions. (Many of these missions also dealt
with the preparation of the subsequent Credit 1464-SO.' The frequency and
timing of the missions were necessary for the supervising s.aff to assess the
activities in progress and to express their views and recommendatinns on the
project implementation. The experience from this project shows clearly that
under conditions like those prevailing in Somalia, i.e., difficult
communications and a fairly weak administration that is not experienced, in
petroleum matters, a high frequency of (brief) visits is very important to
ensure the prompt and appropriate implementation of a project.



- 14 -
6.04      The Bank, at the request of MMWR, prepared short lists of consultants
and assisted in the preparation of the various terms of reference necessary to
hire the consultancy firms. During implementation IDA, in consultantion with
MMWR, also maintained close contacts with the various consultants financed
under the project in order to ensure that the work programs were adhered to
and that the output met quality standards. The experience from this project
demonstrates the benefits to the borrower from close Bank involvement with
consultants, in view of the fact that the consultants normally do not have the
Bank's country knowledge, and that many cor,sultants are not familiar with the
exact requirements under exploration promotion projects, which are different
from their typical oil industry activities.
6.03      The project was justified by its results, even if some benefits were
late in showing up. Altogether 22 blocks have been leased for exploration out
of 46 available; a very good result.  ProfessionaLs trained under tne project
(geophysicist, geologist, accountants) played an important role in the
implementation of the subsequent project.
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01     The main goals cr the p:oject were co accelerate exploration and
strengthen the Government agency in charge of petroleum. Although no
commercial oil or gas discoveries have been made so far in Somalia, the
results of the technical assistance project are encouraging with a very high
level of petroleum exploration now under way in the country. Obviously it is
not certain that hydrocarbons will be discovered in commercial quantities;
however, all t:E necessary conditions are present, e.g., abundant oiL and/or
gas shows; presence of source rocks, reservoir rocks and seals; occurrence of
traps whether structural, stratigraphic or combination. The need to
strengthen the COS' energy management capability was reached in terms of the
petroleum explotation subsector although not fully in terms of overaLl energy
planning.
7.02      In this Last respect, the project was amongst the first Bank
petroleum exploration projects that included an energy planning component.
This happened before the Bank's energy assessment division was organized; it
was in a way a pioneering effort. Therefore little experience existed at the
time in terms of qualified consultancy firms in the energy field, and it
represented the very first effort of this kind in Somalia. These factors
explain in part the uneven performance of the selected firm, despite strict
monitoring by the Bank at the request of COS.
7.03     Although the number of supervision missions may seem high (average
3.3 per year), this was money well spent given the complexity of the project,
the problems affecting the whole civil service in Somalia and the difficult
external communications. In fact, the experience from this project
demonstrates clearly the need for a c.ose supervision through freauent visits,
combined with a very close contact with consuLtants and contractors financed
under this type of projects. In some aspects, int particuLar the seismic
processing, it could in fact be argued that the project might have benefitted
from even closer attention by IDA technical staff.
7.04     The training activities under this project were useful, but the
benefits were necessarily limited by the severe constraints that the public



- 15 -
sector in Somalia is facing.  rhese constraints also made 't impossible tor
GOS to cover the local coets ot contractore and consultants, as had been
anticipated originally. The experience rrom this project demonstratee that
such costs Ehould rrom the beginning be planned to be covered by IDA
financing.
7.05     The question of compensation for local firmers aftected by the
seismic survey had not been foreseen; as a reeult, no fims conmitments existed
to handle this problem, which was _nfortunate although those affected euffered
only moderate louses. Ag a result of this experience, a firm GOS commitment
to handle such problems was obtained for the subsequent Credit 1464-SO.



SOMALIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
PPO.ECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Costs in US$ Million
Appraisal                                                       Actual
Local    Foreign    Total                                      Local    Foreign    Total
Assistance to DMH            0.17       0.97       1.14       Assistance to DMH              -          1.71      1.71
Training                     0.015      0.135     0.15        Training                       -         0.143      0.143
Equipment & Storage          -          0.20      0.20        Equipment & Storage            -         0.016      0.016
Special Studies              0.16       0.92      1.08        Special Studies                -         - 1/       -
Geophysical Survey           0.40       2.10      2.50        Geophysical Survey             -         2.941      2.941
Oil Shale Assessment         0.03       0.22      0.25        Oil Shale Assessment           -         - 1,       _
Assist. to Energy Planning  0.025       0.225     0.250       Assist. to Energy Planning   -            0.274     0.274
Subtotal                  0.80       4.77      5.57
Contingencies                0.40       1.23      1.63        Afgoy Drilling Preparation   -           0.916      0.916
TOTAL                     1.20       6.00      7.20           TOTAL                       -         6.000      6.000
1/ No direct expenses were undertaken under this component.
A few minor expenses were absorbed under the Technical Assistance Component.



- 17 -
ANNEX 2
SOMALIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Credit 1043-SO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SCHEDULE OF CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENT
(in US$ 000)
First Year                                                             Actual/
and Quarter               Appraisal              Actual              Appraisal Z
1981
1st Quarter
2nd Quarter
3rd Quarter
4th Quarter                  2050                 116                      6
1982
1st Quarter                                       116
2nd Quarter                                       243
3rd Quarter                                       291
4th Quarter                  5390                1939                     36
1983
1st Quarter                  5540                2192                     40
2nd Quarter                  5695                2875                     50
3rd Quarter                  5848                3934                     67
4th Quarter                  6000                4236                     71
1984
1st Quarter                     -                4354                     73
2nd Quarter                     -                4593                     77
3rd Quarter                     -                49R0                     83
4th Quarter                     -                5199                     87
19P.5
1st Quarter                     -                5743                     96
2nd Quarter                     -                5817                     97
3rd Quarter                     -                5847                     97
4th Quarter                     -                5885                     98
1986
1st Quarter                     -                5905                     98
2nd Quarter                     -                5991                      -
3rd Quarter                     -                5991                      -
4th Quarter                     -                6000                    100



- 18 -
ANNEX 3
SOMALIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1043-SO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
A. List of Contracts
Contract                       US$
Signed            Ended
Consulting Firm
Worldwide Exploration          04.25.81          04.30.84       1,008,602.5S
Energy Dev. Intl. (E/DI)       10.10.81          12.31.85         273,738.18
Delson & Gordon (D&G)          10.09.81          12.31.35         473,162.24
Coopers & Lybrand (C&L)        09.11.82          12.31.85         267,761.84
MacLachlan International       03.30.83          02.28.84         119,885.29
Keplinger/McCord-Lewis (KML) 09.11.83
02.11.84         n.a.              366,437.79
O'Brien/Goins/Simpson (OGS)  02.12.84            n.a.             549,833.40
Geosource/Petty-Ray            06 .... 82                       2,940,578.74
B. Expenditures According to Categories
Allocated                         Expenses
Category 1                     2,445,000                        1,869,411.89
Category 2                     2,100,000                        2,940,578.74
Category 3                       225,000                          273,738.18
Category 4 (unallocated)       1,230,000                                -
Preparation for Afgoy
Drilling Project               -                               916,271.19
TOTAL                      6,000,000                         6,000,000.00



- 19 -
ATTACHMENT 1
COMtENTS FROM THE BORROWER
OG1067
OEDD2
. IBRDMOG
INTBAFRAD MOGADISHU
SOMAIA
NOVEMBER 22, 1998
FOR ALEXAND NOUICKI
BELOU ARE COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM ALI NALEYE OF OCTOBER 19 ON THE
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROTION PROJECT (CR. 1043-SO). NO OTHER
COMMENTS UILL BE RECEI"ED.
OUOTE: THE REPORT IS OBJECTIVE AND WELL WRITTEN kND UE ARE
SATISFIED UITH IT. HOWEVER UE WOULD HAVE LIKED THE UNSATISFACTORY
PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANT FIRMS-ENERGY DEVELOPMENT INTER -ATIONAL
(EDI) AND THE ENGINEERING FIRM KEPLINGER-TO BE MORE STRONGLY
STRESSED. IN FACT, UE FEEL A PASSING COMMENT ABOUT THE NON-
PERFORMANCE OF THESE CONSULTANTS IS UNFAIR TO THOSE WHO PERFORMED
%ITTF UFt l .
1. IN OUR OPINION, EDIIS WORX FOR AMW UAS TOTAL FIASCO, IN SPITE
OF REPEATED MONITORING EFFORTS AND ASSISTANCE BY THE I.D.A THE
FIRM NEITHER FULFILLED THE PRIMARY OBJECTIVE TO ESTABLISH A DATA
BASE FOR POLICY DECISIONS NOR DID THEY ESTABLISH A SATISFACTORY
FRAME WORK FOR CONTINOUS PLANNING OR A GENERAL OVERVIEW OF ENERGY
SITUATION THAT COULD SERVE AS BASIS FOR FURTHER STUDIES.
2. KEPLINGER'S INTERPRETATION OF AFGOI SEISMIC DATA UAS FLAWED.
NO CONSIDERATION WAS GIVEN TO NUMEROUS FAULTS WHOSE EXISTENCE IN
THE AREA IS UNDOUBTED. THE ANTICLIN*AL STRUCTURE THE FIRM CAME UP
WITH WAS FICTITIOUS, HENCE THE GAS WELLS WERE MISLOCATED. WE FEEL
REINTERPRETATION OF THE SEISMIC SECTIONS WILL SHOW DIFFERENT
STRUCTURE. AND THE PROBABILITY OF FINDING A GAS DEPOSIT IS STILL
EXYSTS.
3. WE FOLJD MINOR ERRATA IN FOLLOUING PARA.S:
I.  PAGE 1, PARA. 1.03.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THE MINING CODE UAS PROMULGATED IN JANUARY 9.
1988, NOT FEB. 1998.
11. PAGE 3, PARA 2.01
WE BELIEVE PETROLEUM ACTIVITIES CEASED IN 1974, WHEN BURMA OIL CO
AND ITS PARTNERS RELINQUISHED THEIR CONCESSION ACREAGE IN LUGH
BASIN, HENCE A LULL OF ACTIVITIES OF ABOUT 5 YRS. UNQUOTE.
REGARDS, FALCONER



E1RD 2OO
.                                                            41*
4\ r                 PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
i                DJIBOUTI
.NSeylo                                                         Adado  BosoO         +
Malt
Bgoi\*        \7         / 
S 0  M  A  L I A                                    holie'    /   We        o
PETROlEUM   EXPLORATIC)N                                                                        GCC
PROMOTION PROJECT- -z                                                                                                                   -
.,~~~~~~/  '(                                        AJ,e        \
9,  /
E, /.,
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V ''d "A OW dC't 00 ,   'NO P> SS 12'*24S0 S:,\
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~o /l'*Cddtf' CO "4    s4"' c4,0 u.0   2 
7    G:none                                                                      C     SCe *,0^ c ioc,s  200   25o    30C
i0-Kz  \              /              "'l~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOAAE!T RS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .' o,r..co8..*,   0   '2'.0d  FC.O.  00D4'DOR \  /'
|nrai  , OGADISHU
.   !             \          t          *a WF} ) z~~~~~~~~~or ra4
< ] \v~~ ., -rr X / 5: *SClambot
,LJ      Be~qs                                                                                                   s, C e  .  -
K, L                 /     e[y    /S                                                                                          I
a                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'N
,GAN,0A             j2 
\3dade                                                                                               oKE.IA
tXV                            ^JW                                                 ar         A%E                                 0AN A  R
SEP'TESA8ER 150e



IBRD 20038
___   . . .   ..   .        .                            - --  -
12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
DJDJIBOUTI                                                                                                    r
0           59 ~~DJIBOUTI
t~~~~' g ~M.ll11  BerbeA
M- I                                                     13 
30
32
27
I                   SOMALIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION                                                            28                  29
PROMOTION PROJECT
i 8          (CREDIT  1043-SO                                                  m__5_
Acreage Situation In August 1986
41               25
Current Exo crOa,or L cer-se B oc                                      /r
CHEVRON                  A5   002  N;EAN ,/
0            39~~~~~4
*      | C.l P C                 ES                                                  39             M-4
- CONOCO                      '                                                           - 
D.2i2 _  - # < :.{>    /38
_     N2
_-_ ee--r*+ zP - :--- s- 23
R ve-e _
f          ~~18 Bterw~e0 19e    -
-               ~~~~M-3
'4-                       ~~~~~~~15                                  20C
14 0ugh Gonanoa                          164
11                                        16
- .      ._.       E;2                       13  M-6
0o        A,Ao-
j.         8                            .              .G ADiSHL
. -7
z
U.J.                     ~~~~~~6
.            W"~~~~'.. .  F  -
M-2                                                       SJcN-_,                 _      _
C ,..                                      __:       30C                         D. BCO.T
> -  2            3                                     . .: *vE-ER                       ,           'HOA      '
ET HIOPIA
1--        ,K s rzyc         #SSe          _   -.  -.  o - .--  7 - -SOMALIA
 M -                                                                    1 -- -1    ...... .._.~. <....L G ANDA
' \-  /  KENYA
TANZANIA \..
NOVEM8BER 198E



_____         - -___________   ______   _________RD   20037
, 1
PERLU  EXPLORATIO _                                         ~                                               erdL
t -74~ 30 1 | 0 03_
|             <             [ ~~~~~~~~              ~~~BerberaO           3           Li
|                      >           ~~       ~      ~~~~                                 ~         ~~~26  27_    
|           ~~SOMALIA                                                                                    /     v
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION                                                          28                29
PROMOTION PROJECT
Acreage Situation in early 1982
(CREDIT 1043-SOC                                                                                               8
Currer' Eo  a C, L cvr',> B ocks
SHELL                    ARC/2
|rLIINTANA               ESS' APP' CA4 ONS                t/         KV
C TIES SEP,/[CE   |         TEXACO                   O/
ELF APP. rATION          BLOCKS OPEN
7/
Jier  ,    r-  18 BeIetweie  19
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1416 0                                      2 15   \
(-_           /   -, Bl R   -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 2   '3 g
10 ' ACABA   -           I           I           S         K
44 88 rANN AH U
=  1  4 1 < W | . .;vj * *~~~~~~~~~~NO EMB R                                                  9B
/    Gelib   /   0,      ~~~100     200I      300                D.1BCyT!
2                                             K    LOmETERS
I *   /   /                                                     1  <  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E'HIOP'A
/ V) * ,> *,,, , ,.~~~ ,~~ O., & ,_, !E . 9 SO~MALIA
I   \;   /     iv4                                         45    | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZAN A\
NOVEM1BER 1986



_________________________-  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'9                                                                                                                                       IBAD    2006~~~~~IB D   00
DDJLOUT                                                                                                                                                                            Won Ioyri              *
ETHIOPiA                                                                                         S   O M    A  L  I A
-- sr                                                     PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
PROMOTION PROJECT                                                                   DOUMA\
AFGOY-CORIOLE SEISMIC PROGRAM                                                                          o
_  ~ ':  Existing Wells                                                         9
Area ol                                                                                  -      Seismic Shot Point Line
Map ^                                                                                         Main Roads                                                                 e
KENYAsku                                                                    - - -   International Boundaries
KENYA
0            ~~~~10              20 Kdomte,gs9
i.9.          ~                                                                                          10             15  \ies
9                                                                                                               -              9_- ...... _-,-_ ,_QI ~ .s4~ ...................... a . ....... / O S 10 15 M,les o \ 
9                                                                                                                                          9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
-" a ' 0                                                           J a nn:. ' I* .     Y     ^ f f     a  a le: j f _ .      
_X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MER__CA-~~     I                                                                                                                                 ogdib
~ ~ ~~~~~~~~hlcrbo /0 ,up ;                                                                                                                                /        /                 ooll;
9  .  .9r                                                                                    w
>---                                                                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER 19



44                                                                   4'                                                                    4 
S 0 M A L I A      \                                   \//                                                    
PETROLEUM EXPLORAlION PROMOTION PROJECT%.                                             fORMA I (ON
REGIONAL SETTING OF AFGOY-CORIOLE                           IJPPI k tJRASI,(
STRUJCTURF CONTOURS                                 N       AMIDDLF' JURASSIC   NARAJAIT   I/Al TARDO I
POSSIBlE                                   HAM~~~~~~~~~MDDE UASSIC jIt
rRIASSIC                                    HAMANLI
OUTCROP                           LIMESTONE
0BUR ACABA
0GIOHER
BUR ACABA ARCH
DUDLUMAI I
_.''-'~ ~                                                      4,/  o
-4,
-'                                   )SS  ~~~~~~/  /                                                        /
T HIN MIO O IGOCE NE ME RCA FORMATION'            /
OVERLYING BASEMENT              /                                /
'  '  AFGOY FEATURE /          ARSCIK I         I    +OUTCROP Of BASEMENT
AFGOY I                                                     MOSTtY GRANITIC
O /                                                     2 | .................. i QUATERNARY OVER SHALLOW
0                                               '2                                                   BASEMENT
MOGADISHU                      'OUICROP OF MIDLE JURASSIC
7  \O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                  I    I 1-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMANtlI2
o.\O    ~ ~ ~    ~ ~       tCONTOURS TOP HAMANTLI
INMETERS
MILE S~ ~~~~~ok IAUI TS
0         10         20         30
Z                                               DRCOBI 0 2                         ,M R<A I           L__  - _ _WELtLs
<   _"a'..'  f-                                        vs                                            0      10    20    30    40    50             RIVI R
m - 0 sHEI I /                                                                                                     KItOMETERS                  0   TOWNS
NATIONAI CAPITAt O
OD)                                                    1  -  DOBE12                   45"                                               SOURCE AFIER KEPLINGLR/MtCORD tEWIS TD    0
TO                                        45"                                                                                     0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



