Document of           FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. P-2728-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPU]3LIC
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
May 21, 1980
This document kms a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oflicW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discilosed without World Bank suthoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(For CY1979 and April 30, 1980)
Unit                   Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
So.Sh. 1.00           US$0.1589
US$1.00         =      So.Sh. 6.295
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVATIONS
Organizations
DMH     -    Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons
IMWR    -    Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources
NPA     -    National Petroleum Agency
OAPEC   -    Organization of Arab Oil Exporting Countries
OEP     -    Oil Exploration Permit
OPP     -    Oil Prospecting Permit
OML     -    Oil Mining Lease
Technical Terms
BD      -  barrels daily
GWh     -  gigawatt-hour
KWh     -  kilowatt-hour
MHCFD   -  million cubic feet per day
MW      -  megawatts
Other
FYDP    -  Five Year Development Plan (1974.-1978)
TYDP    -  Three Year Development Plan (1979-1981)
(Also note Attachment 1 to Annex IV)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December,31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMACY
Borrower:              Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources
Amount:                US$6.0 million
Terms:                 Standard
Project Description:  The project would support the Government's efforts
to develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and
improve its planning of the energy sector. The
Project includes:
(a) technical assistance to Department of Mines and
Hydrocarbons (DMH) (56 manmonths) to compile and
evaluate geophysical and geological data and assist
DMH in updating the Legal framework for promoting
Somalia's petroleum potential and negotiating
with petroleum companies. This component provides
training for DMH staff, office and field equipment
as well as special st:udies;
(b) a geophysical survey of the Coriole-Afgoi
prospects;
(c) an assessment of the oil-shale deposits in
Northern Somalia;
(d) assistance in energy planning (23 manmonths).
Risks:                 There is no special risk attached to the technical
assistance component.  The risk associated with the
geophysical survey is that the quality of the data
acquired may not be sufficient enough to provide
conclusive evidence on the Afgoi and Coriole prospects.
The supervision by DMH consultants should reduce, if
not eliminate, this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Foreign    Local    Total    % of Total
---------------(US$ 000) -------------
Estimated Costs
Assistance to energy planning             225         25        250        4.5
Assistance to DMH                         970        170      1,140       20.5
Training                                  135         15        150        2.7
Equipment and storage                     200         -        200         3.6
Special studies                           920        160     1,080        19.4
Geophysical survey                      2,100        400     2,500        44.8
Assessment of oil shale deposits          220         30       250         4.5
Baseline costs                     4,770        800     5,570       100.0
Physical contingencies                    480         80       560
Price contingencies                       750        320     1,070
Total Contingencies                1 ,23Q      400      12630
TOTAL                                   6,000      1,200     7,200
Financing Plan
IDA                                     6,000         -      6,000
Government                                -        1,200     1,200
TOTAL
Estimated Disbursements                 FY 81    FY 82    FY 83
IDA
Annual                             2,050    3,340       610
Cumulative                         2,050    5,390    6,000
Rate of Return:        N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              N.A.
Eap:                   IBRD 14897



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of US$6.0 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance a petroletm exploration promotion
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 2244-SO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in January 1979. Cotntry data sheets are attached
as Annex 1. An economic mission will visit Somalia in the near future.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic gained its independence in 1960 and
the present Government came into power in 1969. A new Constitution adopted in
1979 provided for a People's Assembly elected from candidates nominated by the
Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party. The eleclions for People's Assembly
were held in December, 1979 and the Assembly appointed General Siad Barre as
President in January, 1980. At present, the country is still suffering from
hostilities in the border areas in the Ogaden, and the disruption caused by
the phasing-out of Soviet aid and technical ass:-stance in 1977. This, combined
with large-scale migration of Somali workers to the Middle East, has led the
Government to reexamine its development strategy. Although no major strategy
has yet emerged, some cautious steps tending to increase the role of market
forces in the economy have been taken.
4.        Somalia is a large country with a 3,00-kilometer coastline; its
land mass varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, to rugged mountains and
plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Only 13% of the
land is said to be arable, but with water the limiting constraint, only a
small fraction of this potentially arable land is, in fact, cultivated. Of
a total population of approximately 4.2 million, the majority (60%) are nomads
and semi-nomads who depend on livestock for their livelihood, and about 20%
are farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli rivers and in the
higher rainfall bay and northwest regions, while the rest (20%) are engaged in
non-agricultural occupations. The existence of several minerals has been
confirmed but with exploration still in its early stages, commercial viability
remains to be proved.  Short of other known resources, Somalia's prospects



-2-
depend upon agricultural and livestock development in which progress will
depend upon careful management of scarce land and water resources. A Bank
mission visited Somalia early this year to carry out an agricultural sector
review and its report is expected in September 1980.
5.        The small monetary sector of the economy provides only limited
opportunities for growth. Apart from the traditional export of livestock,
commercial agriculture is mainly centered on the production and export of
bananas, in which foreign concession holders are still important, and the
production of sugar for the domestic market. The expansion of manufacturing
and other service sectors of the economy is limited by the small size of the
domestic market, poor infrastructure and the shortage of capital and entrepre-
neurial experience. Bank staff estimate that about 70% of the population live
at subsistence levels of about US$200-250 per family of five. Social services
are still very inadequate. There is little economic data on Somalia. Even
basic figures such as GNP, population, number of livestock or output of major
agricultural crops are only rough estimates. The Somali Government recently
prepared its first very tentative estimates of national accounts, an activity
for which the Bank also provided technical assistance. GNP is estimated at
about So.Sh. 8,200 million in 1978. This gives Somalia a GNIP per capita of
about $325 in 1978 at the official exchange rate, but if a more realistic
exchange rate (So.Sh. 9.00=$1.00) is used, it gives a per capita income of
about $225 in 1978. Per capita income has most probably not increased in real
terms over the past six years.  Although this figure is substantially higher
than what was previously thought ($130 for 1978 according to the World Bank
Atlas), it still keeps Somalia in the ranks of the very poor countries.
Development Strategy
6.        Since 1970 the Government has adhered to a program of "scientific
socialism," emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, development through
the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enterprises and the
formation of cooperatives. While the Government has always stated that there
is room for private initiative in Somalia and several privately financed
projects have been implemented, the main emphasis has been given to develop-
ment of the public sector. Public ownership and management have expanded
through nationalization, creation and growth of enterprises.  The parastatal
sector now includes more than 50 autonomous agencies that have eliminated
private enterprises in wholesale trade and banking while taking a major share
in manufacturing. The Five-Year Development Plan of 1974-78 was essentially
a public investment program that allowed for a few small private ventures.
Although it provided a needed impetus to investment in the economy, the Plan
does not seem to have played a major role in the allocative process. Despite
the Government's initial intentions, industry and mining and infrastructure,
have received more public investment than agriculture. At the same time,
public enterprises have operated without firm Government control, owing to a
large extent to weak management and the inadequacies of monitoring instruments.
7.        Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in sub-
sistence farming, a development strategy for Somalia should be based on



- 3 -
agriculture and livestock resources. The major development goals of the
Somali Government include self-sufficiency in food grains, the partial sub-
stitution of other food imports (oils, rice) and improvement of the lot of
the traditional nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements
in livestock production and marketing facilities. The current emphasis on
irrigated agriculture is meant to make the countr-y less dependei.t on the
erratic pattern of rainfall, and assure more stable and predictable increases
in output. However, rainfed agriculture, which occupies the largest number
of farm families, is also being assisted. Improvements in livestock produc-
tion and marketing are being promoted together w[th projects aiming at the
rehabilitation of the rangelands.
8.        Somalia has made considerable progress in meeting some basic needs:
a program of literacy and primary education has had noticeable results, and an
effective system of food supply has been established. In other areas of the
social sectors, however, the record is less impressive, particularly in water
supply, sanitation, and health where services frequently seem to benefit
mainly the urban population. On the other hand, economic growth has been
rather slow, making it difficult for Somalia to pursue its basic needs policies
vigorously. The Government 's industrial development policy focuses on the
processing of domestic raw materials to substitute for imports, although
there are a few rather large investments which do not conform to this policy.
Finally, the Government places emphasis on developing infrastructure, espe-
cially transportation and communications.
Economic Performance, Problems and Sectoral Developments
9.        Newly developed production figures indicate that between 1972 and
1978, gross domestic product in real terms increased by 2.5% a year which,
given a similar population growth rate, led to stagnation in real per capita
income. In the productive sectors, the growth was only 1% a year on the
average, while in the services sectors it was 6.%, reflecting to a large
extent the increase in Government employment. In the productive sectors,
the annual growth was 2.5% in the livestock, minus 5% in crop production,
and minus 0.5% in industry. The development of crop production is particularly
disappointing. Thus, while food grain production stagnated, there was a
sharp decline in banana production and moderate decline in industrial crops,
particularly sugar. The causes of this are manifold: lack of effective
production-oriented development program, uncertainty among private banana
growers, management and agronomic problems on Government production schemes.
Above all, however, the lack of incentive appears to have been a major factor.
For the most important crops, the producer prices have decreased in real
terms; in 1980, they are estimated to be lower than 1974: by 40% for bananas,
almost 30% for maize and sorghum, and 45% for sesame seed and cotton. In
the industrial sector, where agro-industries ptedominate, growth has been
hampered by the generally declining trend in agricultural output as well as
by the many problems besetting public enterpriEes.
10.       The 1974-78 Five-Year Development Plan was revised several times
but remained overambitious with respect to both financial and implementation
capacities. The Three-Year Development Plan (TYDP) covering 1979-81 is a



composite of projects carried over from the FYDP and sore new projects.  The
Plan contemplates for total expenditures of So.Sh. 7.1 billion over the
three-year period, of which So.Sh. 3.7 billion, or 52%, represents outlays
on projects carried over from the 1974-78 development program. Of the total
anticipated expenditure, about 64% is expected to be financed from foreign
financing (compared with 67% under the FYDP). Nearly three quarters of
the projected domestic financing, or slightly more than a quarter of total
financing, is projected to be derived from government budgeted surpluses,
with the remainder expected from domestic savings and borrowing from domestic
sources. It appears that the TYDP is likely to face difficulties in imple-
mentation simrilar to FYDP due to low absorptive capacity and severe resources
constraint.
11.       About 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the neighboring
oil-exporting States. Total earnings of the migrants equal about ten times
the total domestic value added in Somalia's modern sector. Labor migration
has been a phenomenon that the Government neither organizes nor controls, and
its magnitude is such that the drain of skills and the inflow of private funds
may affect the smooth functioning of a Government-controlled economy. This
migration is seriously depleting Somalia's already low stocks of qualified
and skilled manpower, thereby reducing the absorptive capacity of the country
and weakening its institutions. Migrant remittances in 1977 financed imports
of about US$50 million, roughly equivalent to Somalia's exports of livestock
(75% of total export value), consisting mostly of basic consumers' goods
(foods, textiles, some durables). The savings of migrant Somalis financed an
increasing share of total imports during 1978. To a large extent, these
remittances should be mobilized for financing productive investment, although
incentives and opportunities for private capital to engage in gainful invest-
ment are liimited.
12.       Somalia enjoyed a relatively comfortable financial position, both
domestically and externally up to 1978. Foreign reserves appeared sufficient
and credit expansion remained within tolerable bounds. In 1979, however, a
sharp deterioration in the foreign exchange position set in. The budgetary
situation had already begun to deteriorate during 1978 with doubling deficit
financing between 1978 and 1979 and, as a consequence, inflation had become
rampant.
13.       Budgetary policies until 1977 generally remained conservative with
efforts made to mobilize resources through taxation. Although the drought
and the border problems have adversely affected the Government's budget during
this period, inflows from sizeable external grants had considerably eased
their financial impact. However, the border conflict of 1977 further acce-
lerated the outcome that was already visible. In fact, the supply of Govern-
ment services nationwide, the rising defense expenditure and the recurrent
cost implications of recent public investment and policies, made it in-
creasingly difficult to generate savings. During 1978-79, the Government's
financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of sizeable expansion
in expenditure resulting from several factors, including the border conflict,
the cost of maintaining large number of refugees from the conflict area,



- 5 -
and the wage bill associated with Government poLicy of guaranteed employment
for all school leavers. At the same time, official foreign aid declined
sharply. As a result, the budgetary situation worsened and the Government,
which until 1978 had maintained a net creditor position with the Central
Bank, resorted to borrowing heavily from the banking system, with deficit
financing growing from So.Sh. 400 million in 1978 to So.Sh. 800 million in
1979. This, in turn, led to rampant inflation; 20% in 1978, 25% on the
average in 1979, but by the end of 1979 the annial rate of inflation had
exceeded 40%.
14.       The external financial constraint until 1977 was mainly the result
of sluggish exports, with relatively stable imports. The external financial
imbalance until 1977 was masked by a massive inflow of foreign aid, resulting
in substantial balance of payments surpluses. In 1978, although export
receipts rose by 43%, mainly as a result of substantial increases in both the
volume and unit value of livestock exports, the current account deficit nearly
tripled because of both the large increase in total imports and the more than
75% decline in official external grants. Hence, notwithstanding a marked
improvement in the capital account, the overall balance of payments in 1978
recorded a slight deficit. In 1979, however, exports are estimated to have
stagnated because of a reduction in the volume of livestock exports. In-
complete data indicate that the value of imports rose by at least 14% in 1979
after rising by 25% in 1978. But, compared with 1978, when about a third
of the total value of imports was financed by migrant remittances and un-
repatriated profits of livestock exports, non-cfficially financed imports
fell in 1979 and the authorities were compelled to provide foreign exchange
for the import of essential goods that were nor-officially financed in 1978.
Since official foreign grants also fell, the current account worsened by $94
million, while the overall balance of payments is estimated to have recorded a
deficit of about $80 million. Gross official reserves fell from $129 million
(equivalent to seven months' imports) at the enLd of 1977 to $44 million
(equivalent to 1.5 months' estimated imports) at the end of 1979.
15.       The sluggish exports and a low level of domestic savings have
made external assistance most important in the financing of development.
After joining the Arab League in 1974 Somalia tiounted a major effort to
attract funds from the Arab petroleum exportinEs countries. The large inflows
of external capital and transfers from 1975 onwards indicate that the effort
had been successful, although a substantial part of the inflow was related to
two events, the drought in 1974/75 and the war in 1977/78. After 1977, the
source of foreign assistance had changed from :he socialist countries (except
for the People's Republic of China which maintains a large program) towards
Arab bilateral and multilateral institutions anid Western Countries, several
of which have had substantial assistance programs for a number of years.
Official foreign aid, however, declined markedLy during 1978-79. The public
external debt of Somalia outstanding and disbursed as of December 1978 was
approximately US$496 million, or about 50% of GDP. Although a large share of
the external debt is on fairly soft terms, the debt service ratio increased
from 3.4% to about 5.5% in 1977 and is estimated at about 8% in 1978. Debt
service burden is expected to become rather heavy in the near future with debt
service ratio increasing to 25 to 30% by 1983.



- 6 -
16.       In summary, the Government's record over the past few years has been
mixed, but the country's achievements have to be seen against a background of
poor resource endowments. The slow development of agriculture in a mostly
nomadic society, the shortage of qualified manpower, the difficulties of
organizing and managing an efficient public sector, and the limitation of
financial resources can all be imputed to the country's human and natural con-
straints. The Government has attempted to alleviate some of these constraints
and has partially succeeded. However, growth in income and exports has been
rather slow. Moreover since 1978 Somalia has had to encounter a slowdown of
the economy, coupled with growing deficits both in Governrent budget and
balance of payments, as well as a rising rate of inflation. The situation is
likely to be further aggravated by the influx of about one million refugees
from the hostilities in Ogaden, who are straining the meagre resource endow-
ments of Somalia and adding to its budgetary and balance of payments diffi-
culties.
17.       Government has recently shown some awareness that corrective
policies are needed to face the econonic and financial deterioration. In
January 1980, the Government entered into its first Stabilization Program
with the IMF. The program aims at restraining both public and private
domestic demand, raising domestic output of food crops, expanding exports,
and achieving some degree of import substitution through changes in product
and factor prices. However, in addition to the stabilization program,
greater emphasis should be given to economic growth; this would imply direct-
ing more investment towards productive activities, particularly agriculture
and small-scale industry. The mobilization of resources to this end should
be sought through better management of public enterprises, and more dynamic
measures to encourage the migrants to return to Somalia and to attract and
mobilize the financial resources of the migrants. In the interest of economic
growth, bettern opportunities and greater incentives ought to be created to
stimulate production; a dialogue on various policy options for this purpose
has recently commenced between the Government and the Bank.
18.       For Somalia's export prospects to improve, there will be need to
restructure the economy. At this stage, these are not very promising because
of the concentration on two primary products -- livestock and bananas -- both
of which face problems in expanding production in the long run. Livestock is
subject to cyclical droughts which decrease export supplies. Banana exports
have fallen because of both supply (drought, floods, poor agricultural prac-
tices) and demand (increasing competition from multinationals in both Italy
and the Middle East) problems. Diversification efforts have been attempted
with hides, skins, and fisheries but not with much success. Therefore, in
view of the country's poverty and uncertain export prospects, assistance
should be provided on the softest terms possible and contain provisions for
local currency financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
19.       Starting in 1965 IDA has made 20 credits totaling US$141 million,
of which about 35% have been made for transportation development, including



- 7 -
construction of three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and associated
extensions at Mogadishu. IDA credits were also mnade for livestock development
in FY74, for a development finance company projezt in FY77 and for education
in FY71, FY75 and FY78. Lending for crop agriculture commenced in FY76 with
two credits for a Drought Rehabilitation Project and a North-West Region
Agricultural Development Project. Additional credits for Centr,l Rangelands
and Agricultural Extension and Training and Bay Region Development projects
were approved in FY79 and FY80. Agricultural and livestock credits approved
for Somalia together represent 41%0 of total lending.  A credit for development
of water supply in Mogadishu and a technical assistance credit for project
preparation were approved in FY78. No Bank loan or IFC investment has been
made to Somalia. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of
April 30, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Performance on ongoing projects has been somewhat weak due mainly
to shortage of qualified personnel. As the pace of development continues
to rise, absorptive capacity constraints are becoming increasingly evident,
especially in the field of agriculture where prcjects are rather complex and
implementation experience is limited. Therefore, in preparing and appraising
new projects, particularly close attention is being paid to implementation
capacity and the adoption of measures to ease tlis constraint when necessary.
As one step to address this problem, the Governuent has established a Project
Implementation Unit which would strengthen the capacity for project implemen-
tation considerably by providing monitoring and logistical support to the
projects, including assistance in procurement ard recruitment of consultants.
21.       We plan to concentrate our future effcrts on the country's directly
productive sectors, agriculture and livestock, atnd also on education and
transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for develop-
ment, most rural development activities are only in the early stages.  tfore-
over, agricultural development in Somalia is particularly difficult because
most of the people in rural areas are nomadic. To increase our knowledge of
agriculture in Somalia,the Bank is currently making a comprehensive review of
the sector. In addition to these sectors, we p:an to support the Government's
industrial development efforts (and assist in the formulation of an industrial
development policy) through our country economic work and future industrial
development finance projects. We also plan to continue assistance to the
water supply sector.
22.       Somalia's statistical service lacks tlhe capacity to fulfill the
data needs of development programs.  The Bank's operations have experienced
difficulties in obtaining statistical data. We are therefore helping to
strengthen the Central Statistical Department i- the State Planning Commission
*        under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project through
provision of technical assistance and training of Somali staff.
23.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Associa-
tion's growing operational program in Somalia, we established a one-man
resident mission there in 1977. The mission represents the Bank Group in
its contacts with the Government, thus facilitating an efficient and smooth



- 8 -
day-to-day working relationship and assists in coordination of cofinancing
efforts. In addition, two Pank staff members have recently been seconded
to the Project Implementation Unit (para. 20).
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resource Base, Production and Derand
24.        Somalia's energy endowment is potentially significant, but idlnti-
fied resources are modest. Forested lands amounting to some 100,000 km are
the main domestic energy source. However, indiscriminate use of wood and
lack of reforestation have resulted in serious depletion and ecological
damage. Due to low rainfall and irregular water flow in the country's rivers,
the hydro potential is small and probably does not exceed 50 MW. No commer-
cial petroleum resource has yet been identified although two companies are
carrying out exploration. The oil shale deposits near Berbera are a poten-
tially valuable source of hydrocarbons. Small occurrences of coal in northern
Somalia seem to be of little economic value since the seams are thin and the
ash and sulphur contents high. Deposits of uranium estimated at 8,500 mT
(with a U 0' content of less than 0.1%) have been discovered in the Mudug
Valley. Among other energy sources, bagasse from sugarcane is used to a
minor extent for steam and electricity generation in captive plants. Finally,
there appears to be good potential for wind and solar energy which, however,
has not been investigated to any degree.
25.       Energy consumption increased by sone 4% p.a. during the 1971-79
period and reached about 800,000 tons of oil equivalent in 1979, or 200 kg of
oil equivalent per capita. Domestically produced wood and charcoal met almost
three quarters of total consumption. Petroleum imports, amounting to about
US$43 million (or 26% of exports of goods and services) in 1979, met virtually
all commercial energy needs, or about 25% of the total energy consumption.
Electricity production and distribution are still at an early stage of develop-
ment. The installed capacity of about 90 MW is spread over six regional
independent public utilities and a number of captive generating systems.
Generation in the public utilities is based entirely on petroleum fuels,
mainly diesel, except for the Mlogadishu system which has been partially
converted for fuel oil use. Electricity consumption has grown rapidly by
about 10% p.a. over the 1971-79 period and totaled about 100 GWh in the last
year (26 kWh per capita) which was just over 1% of final energy consumption.
Sectoral Institutions
26.       Pesponsibility for the energy sector is divided among a number of
government institutions.  The Ministry of Mfineral and Water Resources (1I5IR)
is in charge of mineral fuels, including petroleum, as well as of hydrological
resources. The Ministry of Commerce supervises the National Petroleum Agency
(NPA) which imports, transports and distributes petroleum projects. The
Ministry of Industry oversees the petroleum refinery and the state-owned



- 9 -
industrial enterprises with their own power generation. The Ministry of
Public Works is in charge of the power utilities and the Economic Commission
of the Presidency of the Republic sets petroleum products and electricity
prices. MMWR is promoting the establishment of an energy commission, com-
prising high level representatives of all agencies concerned, as a means of
coordinating decision making in the sector. Assurances were obtained for
establishment of a suitable energy commission by December 31, 1982 (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.09).
Main Sectoral Issues
27.       As a result of the prevailing dilution of responsibility, compounded
by the absence of basic data and a shortage of competent personnel, the
Government lacks the capability of devising a rational policy for energy
prices, fully evaluating energy resources, analyzing development options and
preparing comprehensive investment programs for the sector.
28.       Energy Pricing.  Mainly for social considerations the Government has
kept energy prices at low levels despite the substantially increased costs of
petroleum imports. Electricity tariffs have remained unchanged since 1970.
Whereas prices of petroleum product imports rose by nearly 180% during the June
1977-July 1979 period, increases in fuel prices to consumers amounted to less
than 40% over the same period. Fuel prices were not raised during the second
half of 1979 despite continuous increases in ex-refinery and import prices of
petroleum products. Since 1977 the share of taxes and NPA's margin in the
retail price of petroleum products have decreasEd by about one third. Fuel
taxes now range from 16 to 41% of the retail price and taxes are not used as
a tool for managing demand growth. NPA's margir. of about 7% of the retail
price is insufficient to cover operating costs eand financial charges. As a
result of this pricing policy, the refinery, NPA and the power utilities
sustained losses in 1979 for which they are only partly reimbursed through the
general budget. There is a need for an energy pricing policy to ensure the
financial viability of the sectoral enterprises while enabling the Government
to manage demand and encourage conservation. The Project will help devise a
sound energy pricing policy.
29.       Energy Investment.  During the 1974-79) period, public investment
in the energy sector amounted to US$62.5 million--financed at 93% by OAPEC
sources--and was devoted primarily to the expansion of the Mogadishu power
system and the construction of the new refinery, Only US$1.6 million went
toward studies on domestic energy resources: a survey of uranium deposits
and a partial compilation of petroleum exploration data. A comprehensive
investment program in energy for the period 1981)-85 has not been prepared.
The list of projects contemplated reflects the recent priority put by the
Government on tapping both renewable energy and mineral fuels. Projects aimed
at developing domestic supplies of energy would absorb the major share of the
proposed investments. They include a 5-MW hydro scheme on the lower Juba
River and a medium- to long-term reforestation and charcoal program prepared
with the assistance of IDA (Credit 906-SO), the World Food Program and the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization, as well as a uranium



- 10 -
mining project whose feasibility is being investigated by the Government
jointly with the Arab Mining Company. In order to promote exploration of its
petroleum potential the Government is sponsoring an offshore seismic survey
financed by Norwegian export credits and has granted two concessions to
private oil companies (para. 36). If the emphasis on the development of
domestic resources appears prima facie justified, the financial and economic
feasibility of each project needs to be analyzed in order to identify least-
cost solutions to meet energy requirements, establish priorities for invest-
ment and avoid any potential waste of resources.
30.       Conclusion.  Somalia is facing severe energy problems because of
a narrow and poorly developed resource base and pricing policies which have
lagged behind increases in world petroleum prices. Efforts to develop and
husband renewable energy sources, especially wood and charcoal, and to manage
demand by judicious pricing of petroleum products and electricity should
complement the search for domestic supplies of mineral fuels. In this respect,
petroleum exploration is particularly attractive because private capital has
proven to be ready to enter this activity and because even a small commercial
discovery would go a long way toward meeting the country's commercial energy
needs.
The Petroleum Sector
31.        Petroleum demand is satisfied entirely through imports.  Petroleum
products were obtained from the USSR until 1976 and since then from Arab oil
exporting countries. Since late 1978 a 250,000-ton refinery at Mogadishu
owned jointly with Iraq, is processing crude from that country and now meets
most domestic requirements except for motor and aviation gasolines and gas
oil. Fuel oil accounts for about one half of refinery output, far in excess
of domestic requirements, and therefore is largely exported. Secondary
processing facilities, at present under study, would better adapt the refinery
output to the pattern of domestic demand. Final consumption of petroleum
products grew by nearly 16% p.a. during the 1971-79 period. While this
increase and sharp fluctuations in intermediate years can be largely explained
by special circumstances such as extended droughts and the Ogaden events, low
fuel prices are bound to have also stimulated consumption. Gas oil represents
50% of petroleum products consumption, followed by gasoline and fuel oil
(about 20% each). Kerosene, jet fuel and, to a minor extent, liquified
petroleum gas, account for the remainder. Fuel oil has been used by the
Ilogadishu power utility and refinery since late 1978. The transport sector is
the largest user of petroleum products, consuming about 60% of the total,
whereas power generation accounts for about 16% and petroleum refining
an estimated 12%. Fuel consumption by industry probably amounts to not much
more than 6% of total demand, which is about equal to the consumption by the
residential, commercial and government sectors combined.
32.       Petroleum imports have become a growing burden on Somalia's balance
of payments. The petroleum import bill increased during 1973-78 from US$3.9
million (or 5.3% of goods and nonfactor service exports) to US$22.7 million
(or 15% of export earnings). Due to larger requirements and sharply increased



- 11 -
prices, petroleum imports in 1979 amounted to nearly US$43 million (net of
fuel oil exports of about US$14 million), or nearly 26% of export earnings.
Although the refinery is guaranteed a 2% margin, rising crude prices were
not matched by product price increases and an orerating loss of nearly US$1
million was registered in 1979. In the years ahead, petroleum imports are
likely to preempt a growing share of the country's export earnir.gs. Assuming
that future petroleum demand growth could be held at 4-5% p.a. and prices were
not to exceed US$30 per barrel in 1980 and not to rise above 3% p.a. in real
terms in the following years, imports of crude End products net of product
export would increase to US$68 million in 1980 z.nd US$130 million by 1985,
should no indigenous crude production be attained by then.
Institutional and Legal Frameworks for Petroleum Exploration
33.       Responsibility for petroleum exploration and exploitation rests
with the Department of Mining and Hydrocarbons l'DMH) of the MMWR. DMH is
also responsible for mining and quarrying and has a professional staff of ten,
mostly recent graduates of Mogadishu University, including only three geolo-
gists and one engineer with petroleum background. With the exception of
its head, DMH staff has little experience and almost no first-hand knowledge
of the industry. The 1980 budget of the Ministry amounted to So.Sh. 18.6
million (about US$3 million) against So.Sh. 30.9 million (about US$5 million
in 1979). Despite this decline, attributable to the Government's overall
difficult budgetary situation, the 1980 budget -'ncludes So.Sh. 2 million
(about US$330,000) for petroleum exploration, indicative of the Government's
commitment to the development of the country's hydrocarbon resources. This
amount would also comprise the counterpart funds for the proposed project.
34.       The Mining Code (Law No. 77 of November 22, 1970) and its regula-
tions (Decree No. 173 of April 3, 1971) govern petroleum exploration and
production. Petroleum belongs to the State which grants three types of
licenses: oil exploration (OEP) and oil prospecting permits (OPP) and oil
mining leases (OML). There is no limit to the size of an OEP under which
one can carry out only surface geological and geophysical surveys. An OEP
holder can obtain OPPs with a maximum size of 400 sq mi and then carry out
geological and geophysical work, as well as driLling in accordance with a
program agreed to with the Ministry. Both OEPs and OPPs are for initial
terms of two years and can be renewed three times for one year. Once a
discovery has been made, the Ministry may grant an OML, normally covering
160 sq mi. Royalties of 15% on crude oil and 12-1/2% on gas are due. The
level of income tax payable is defined in each aoncession agreement.
35.       Two concession agreements were negotiated during the second half
of 1979, one with Arco and the other with Texaco (see map IBRD 14897).  As a
result of these negotiations, the Ministry realLzes that its procedures for
awarding exploration acreage and its legal framawork need revision to inter
alia (a) provide for competitive bidding on smaLl blocks; (b) specify data
to be delivered by the company to the Government; (c) define working commit-
ments in physical terms (e.g., wells to be drilled until stated objective is
reached); (d) provide for prompt acreage relinqiishment; (e) assure develop-
ment of a discovery or provide for its reversioi to the Government; and (f)
improve the financial benefits to the country.



- 12 -
Status of Exploration
36.       Nearly 90% of the roughly one million km  land and marine area (to a
200-m water depth) is underlain by a sedimentary section with limited to fair
petroleum potential. (The geology and status of exploration is discussed in
more detail in Annex IV.) Although Somalia has been explored for oil since
the 1920s, exploration began in earnest since 1948. Since then, several
companies acquired and relinquished exploration acreage after having carried
out gravimetric, magnetic and seismic surveys and exploratory drilling. All
activity ceased from 1977 to 1979. At present two companies are active:
Arco (U.S.) in the Mudug Basin and Texaco (U.S.) in the Lamu Embayment. Arco
has commissioned a 1,200-km seismic survey and intends to spud its first well
shortly. Texaco is planning to begin a seismic survey in the summer of 1980.
37.       As a result of past exploration efforts, some 54 wells have been
drilled and minor shows of oil and gas have been recorded in 15 of these
wells, although none have proved to date to be of great significance.
The validity of these exploratory tests is in question since only seven of
the exploratory holes have been drilled with the benefit of modern digital
seismic data. The most promising shows were encountered in the Daga Shebel
well near Berbera where there are numerous surface seeps of heavy oil and
in several wells in the coastal basins. The more important are the Afgoi-1
and the Coriole-1. Based on the limited seismic interpretations available,
the Afgoi-Coriole area appears structurally complex, and together with the
heavy oil area near Berbera, warrants further examination. In general it can
be stated that the petroleum potential of Somalia has yet to be evaluated.
Only a few of the exploratory wells drilled to date appear to be valid tests
of defined structure. Even so, more than one fourth of these had some kind of
oil or gas show.
Government Approach for Hydrocarbon Exploration
38.       The Government attaches high priority to the development of domestic
hydrocarbon resources and wishes to further attract foreign companies to under-
take petroleum exploration. It realizes that its past ad hoc approach to
awarding exploration acreage was not proving the most beneficial for the
country. Following discussions with IDA missions, it decided upon a system-
atic approach to promoting its petroleum potential. It would employ consul-
tants to review existing geophysical and geological data in an attempt to
establish the petroleum potential of the country, propose amendments to the
legal framework and suggest a strategy for awarding exploration acreage.
Permits would be granted in a competitive climate to ensure better terms for
Somalia.
39.       The Government is also planning further investigation of known
potential resources, in particular, the Bihendula oil shale deposits occurring
near heavy oil shows in the Northern Regions (para. 37) and the Coriole-Afgoi
prospects. These oil shale deposits were rapidly surveyed before independence.
Reportedly, tests have confirmed the quality of the oil shale. This is the



- 13 -
only significant known reserve of hydrocarbons aid MNNR is interested in a
more detailed investigation of the deposits to assess the conditions under
which they could be economically tapped to meet lomestic demand. No company
has shown interest in the Coriole-Afgoi area sinze its relinquishment. The
Government attributes this to the fact that the show was mainly gas and thus
of little interest to a foreign company, but of possible significant benefit
to the country. In addition, the structures drilled were not well defined
and have not been investigated by modern geophysical methods. A new survey
may prove that exploratory wells were not located in the most propitious
spots and that further drilling is warranted. Even a gas find would be
rewarding in view of the proximity to the city of Mogadishu, the major
consumption center.
Conclusions
40.       The planned approach is basically sound and deserves IDA support.
Its successful implementation will depend on the availability of human re-
sources lacking at present. MMWR should employ highly qualified technicians
to compile the available geological and geophysical information, deal with
oil companies on a knowledgeable basis, supervise future geophysical work
and assess the oil shale deposits of the Northern Regions. TMWR is aware
that until more Somali personnel is adequately trained, it will have to rely
on foreign expertise.
IDA's Role
41.       Somalia is at a turning point in explcring its hydrocarbon resources.
IDA's role would be to assist in (a) providing T14WR with the expertise needed
to broaden its knowledge of the country's potential, promoting this potential
and negotiating with foreign companies; (b) invEstigating the Bihendula oil
shale; and (c) laying the basis for energy planring. IDA is already support-
ing the Government's efforts by providing some US$80,000 required to finance
the early employment of exploration and legal consultants from the technical
assistance credit (Credit 821-SO).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
42.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
mission to Somalia in September 1979 and appraised in January 1980. Credit
negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on April 25, 1980. The Somali
delegation was headed by Mr. Abdullahi Ahmed Addou, Minister of Finance.
A credit and project summary appears at the begLnning of this Report, and
a supplementary project data sheet is given in Annex III. No Staff Appraisal
Report has been prepared.



- 14 -
Project Obiectives
43.       The project would support the Government's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve its planning of the energy sector.
Its immediate objectives are to:
(a)  strengthen the capacity of DMH to evaluate and distribute
existing data, carry out and supervise additional geological
and geophysical surveys and interpret their results;
(b)  enable the Government to competitively offer exploration
acreage to foreign companies;
(c)  assist DM11 in developing the capability of monitoring work
by the operating companies;
(d)  further investigate the Coriole-Afgoi prospects;
(e)  assess the petroleum potential in the vicinity
of Berbera, including both the Bihendula oil shale
deposits and the reported nearby heavy oil shows in
the Northern Regions; and
(f) provide the Government with the means of undertaking
comprehensive energy planning.
Project Description
44.       The project would support the Covernment's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector.
It would include the following components:
(A)  Assistance to DMH
This component would provide funds for:
(i)  exploration consultants (48 manmonths).  DII1 would
retain the services of exploration consultants full
time for a period of six months to assist DMH in:
a.   securing and evaluating available data pertaining
to hydrocarbon exploration in Somalia, both on- and
offshore, reworking and reinterpreting the data as
necessary, preparing such maps and cross sections
needed to clearly exhibit the petroleum potential
and generate new ideas for petroleum exploration;
b.   devising a strategy for promoting the petroleum
potential to oil companies;



- 15 -
c.   preparing a detailed geophysical program on the
Coriole-Afgoi prospects;
d.   together with the legal consultants (para. (ii)
below), improving the contractual framework for
granting exploration permits to oil companies;
e.   administering competitive bidding (including
definition of permits, preparation of data packages,
advertising the bidding, evaluation and comparison
of the bids); and
f.   together with the legal consultants, negotiating
with companies.
Following the first six months o: their assignment, the
exploration consultants would assist DMR on a periodic
basis (for two and a half years) in monitoring and inter-
preting the work of operating comnpanies, supervising the
geophysical work on the Coriole-Afgoi prospects and
interpreting the data acquired.
(ii) legal consultants (5 manmonths). DMH would engage
a legal firm to assist in the updating of the legal
framework and in negotiations with companies;
(iii)  petroleum accounting consultants (3 manmonths).
DMH would employ specialists in petroleum accounting
to establish a petroleum accounting system designed
to control, monitor and audit expenditures of the
operating companies;
(iv) training. Two geologists, two geophysicists, a lawyer
and an economist from the Ministry would be granted
one-year fellowships to take specialized courses abroad.
The project would also provide financing for DMH's staff
to observe and learn geochemical analysis and seismic
record processing; each consultant would be responsible
for on-the-job training for designated DMH staff;
(v)  office and field equipment needed to support the work
of the consultants and store geological and geophysical
data; and
(vi) special studies such as geochemical analyses, interpreta-
tion of Landsat imagery, seismic reprocessing and reinter-
pretation, necessary to complement the work of the
exploration consultants.



- 16 -
(B) Geophysical Survey of the Coriole-Afgoi Prospects
The project would include a geophysical survey of the Coriole-
Afgoi prospects, possibly including 700 km of detailed land
seismic, aimed at confirming whether the structures are worthy
of further drilling. The program of work, including the final
layout of the seismic lines and the technical specifications,
would be prepared by the exploration consultants. A condition
for disbursing the relevant funds would be for this program to
be satisfactory to MMWR and IDA (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 2.02).
(C) Assessment of the Oil Shale Deposits in the Northern Regions
DMH would employ oil shale specialists to make a preliminary
assessment of the oil shale deposits and the heavy oil shows
in the Northern Regions. The consultants would also collect
oil shale samples and carry out the necessary laboratory tests.
If these tests are positive, they would estimate the reserves
and prepare a detailed program for the development of the
deposits. A condition for disbursing the funds related to
the reserve estimate and the preparation of a development
program is for the consultants to justify to the satisfaction
of MMWR and IDA that such work is warranted (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 2.02).
(D) Energy Planning
This component aims at assisting the Government in establishing
a data base for policy decisions; analyzing priority issues in
the sector, establishing the framework for continuous sectoral
planning and creating a national energy planning capability.
It provides:
(i) 20 manmonths of consulting services for evaluation of
energy demand, carrying out of a fuel pricing study,
identification of development options including more
efficient use of traditional energy sources, conserva-
tion and increase of energy efficiency; evaluation of
project proposals with a view toward strengthening
the Government's ability to make appropriate invest-
ment decisions;
(ii) 3 manmonths of consultants' services for the study
of institutional, administrative and manpower require-
ments for more effective sectoral policies and planning;
and
(iii) two scholarships for participation in programs on energy
economics, policies and administration.



- 17 -
The Government would consult with IDA on the conclusions of the
pricing and organizational studies as well as steps to implement
their recommendations (draft Development Credit Pgreement, Section
3.08).
Cost Estimates
45.       The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes which are
not applicable, is estimated at US$7.2 million. The total cost of one
manmonth of consulting services has been estimated on the average at US$15,000
including travel, subsistence and overhead. This amount is reasonable,
taking into account the high level of specialized expertise required and
salaries prevailing in the petroleum industry. The cost of seismic work has
been estimated on the basis of actual surveys ini Somalia and comparable
countries. The cost estimates include physical contingencies of 10% on all
project components. Price contingencies of 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981 and
8% for 1982 have been applied to the foreign costs of all project components.
Price contingencies of 20% p.a. have been used i-or local costs. Total
contingencies amount to US$1.63 million, about 23% of baseline cost estimates.
Estimated costs by project components are given in the project summary and
outlined below:
Foreign      Local    Total
----     (US$'000) -------
Technical assistance to DUIE                2,445         375    2,820
Geophysical survey                          2,100         400    2,500
Energy planning                               225          25       250
Subtotal                              4, 770         800    5,570
Physical contingencies                        480          80       560
Price contingencies                         _750          320    1,070
Total contingencies                   1_230          600    1,630
TOTAL                                       6p,00       1,200    7,200
The proposed IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange component amounting
to US$6 million. The local costs (US$1,200,000 equivalent) would be financed
by the Government.
Project Implementation
46.        The Mlinistry of IIineral and Water Resources would be in charge of
implementing the project. (The Government has decided to entrust the Ministry
with responsibility for energy planning pending the establishment of the
energy commission (para. 26).) The exploration, accounting and legal consul-
tants are expected to be employed before June 1980. The oil shale and energy
planning consultants would be employed before the end of 1980. All consultants



- 18 -
would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Government and
IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). The geophysical survey
would be carried out by specialized contractors early in 1981 under the super-
vision of DuIH and its exploration consultants. A schedule of implementation
is given in Annex V.
47.       DMH is expected to sell some of the data collected during project
implementation to interested oil companies. The proceeds of any such sales
would be kept in a special account and used for further petroleum studies
and surveys (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Contracts for geophysical work would be awarded following inter-
national competitive bidding. Vehicles, office and laboratory equipment
(estimated at US$200,000) would be procured following local bidding procedures
which are satisfactory to the Association. The selection of consultants
would be in accordance with the Association's guidelines for the use of con-
sultants. Disbursement would be made against 100% of foreign expenditures.
A special condition for disbursement is attached to the funds relating to the
geophysical survey of the Coriole-Afgoi prospects and to the assessment of
oil shale reserves in the Northern Regions (para. 44 (B) and (C)). The
proceeds of the credit are expected to be fully disbursed three years after
effectiveness.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
48.       The Ministry would keep separate project accounts.  To this end it
would employ before October 1980 a financial officer acceptable to the Associa-
tion (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). The accounts would
be audited by external auditors acceptable to the IMinistry and the Association
and the audit reports would be submitted no later than six months after the
close of the fiscal year, starting with FY80. DMII would submit quarterly and
annual reports on implementation of the project in a format acceptable to the
Association.  It would also submit a project completion report not later than
six months after the Closing Date (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections
4.02 and 3.05(b)).
Project Benefits and Risks
50.       The primary benefit of the exploration technical assistance would
be to attract further private capital to undertake hydrocarbon exploration
in Somalia. It is expected that onshore tracts would be ready to be offered
by competitive bidding to companies by mid-1981. The risk associated with
this component is that the tracts offered for bidding may not prove attractive
enough to foreign companies. However, given the current energy market condi-
tions, it is believed that the advantages of proceeding with the Project out-
weigh the risks associated with it.
51.       The geophysical survey is expected to provide conclusive evidence
on the Coriole and Afgoi structures. The risks associated with this component



- 19 -
are two-fold. The first concerns the quality of the data acquired. The
project provides for a geophysicist to supervise the work of the contractor
and reduce, if not eliminate, the possibility of acquiring inadequate data.
The second risk is that even if satisfactory data are acquired, the prospects
may prove marginally attractive and no oil company would be interested. In
this event, the Government would have to consider undertaking drilling on its
own.
52.       Assessment of oil-shale deposits in the Northern Regions will
accelerate the development of Somalia's only kncwn hydrocarbon resource.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Credit Agreement between thE Somali Democratic Republic
and the Association and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms to the usual pattern
of agreements on petroleum exploration promotion projects. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section 3 of Annex III to this report.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDA"ION
56.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert 3. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1980



- 20 -                                                    Annex I
TABLE 3A                                                Page  1  of  4
SOMALUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANDAEATHOUSANSQ.K)SOKALEA RE7TRNCE GROUPS 'DJUS7ED A::RA.ES
LAND AREA (THOtSAND SQ. KS!.)                  SOMALIA                         - MOST RE2NT ESTIMATE) -A
TOTAL            637.7                                                     SAKE        SA. E      EXT SIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     299.2                                  MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         ItCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    QROUP /e
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0         --        225. 0/f        306.1      209.6        467.5
ENERGY CONSLMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       19.0         39.0      47.0             80.6       83.9        262.1
POPULATION AYD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       2.5          3.1       4. 2/f
UA8AN POPULATION (PERCE2NT OF TOTAL) 17.0         23.1      27.0             17.1       16.2         24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION tN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         7.0
STATIONARY POPLLATION (MILLIONS)                          17.0
YEAR STATIONARtY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. c!.                         3.0         4.0        5.0             18.4       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       7.0         9.0       11.0            50.8       252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 rRS.                          43.8        46.5       45.0            44.1        43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                          53.5        51.6       53.0            52.9        53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          1.9       2.0             2.8         3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROHTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.0         2.4        2.3             2.7         2.4         2.7
URBAN                               2.9         5.3        5.0             5.7         4.6         4.3
CRUDE 3IRTH RA7E (PER THOUSAND)      48.0        47.0       48.0            46.3        42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.0        22.0       20.0             17.2       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.0        3.0             3.1         2.9         2.7
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..              ..        12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.1       100.0       90.0            94.3        98.2        99.6
PER CAPtTA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRCEUNTS)                   77.0         80.0      79.0             89.5       93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           57.0        57.0       55.1            55.8        52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.O0g      27.0       28.0            17.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      43.0        36.0       31.0            22.3        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTR (YEARS)    36.0         40.0       43.0            47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..           ..        ..              ..       105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        15.0       33.0            20.3        26.3        34.4
URBAN                                ..        17.0       58.0            53.9        58.5        57.9
RURAL                                ..        14.0       20.0            10.1        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPU1ATION)
TOTA.                                ..           ..      47.0            22.5        16.0        40.8
URBAN                                ..          ..       77.0            62.5       65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ..          ..      35.0             13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          30000.0     21140.0   15560.0          17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      5580.0      3690.0    2900.0           2506.6     5352.4       1322.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             630.0       580.0      570.0/h         502.3     1417.1        726.5
URISAS                               ..           ..        ..           201.4       197.3       272.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..          1403.6     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..            23.4        24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..             4.9         5.3         5.4
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..              4.9        4.9          5.1
RURAL                                ..          ..       5.5              5.5        5.4          5.5
AVERAGE !UWBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..       22.5         78.1
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       17.8         45.1
RUrRAL                               ..          ..        ..               ..          ..         9.9



- 21 -
Annex 1
TABLE 3A                                                      Page  2  of  4
SOKALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DiTA SHEET
SMA.LIA                    ILREP1tRENCE GROUPS (ADIUSTEL 4NVE?'GES
Ot4ALIA                    _  - 'OST RECEc1ir KSILATE)"
SdStE       SAME      NEI 11..
.WST RECENT      CtO(GRAPHIC    INCOME      INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 ib ESTIMATE           ILEGION /c   GROUP /d    PROUP re
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED E7ROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIIA&RY:    TOTAL                   9.0          9.0      40.0             59.0        63.3         32.7
kALE                  13.0         .4.0      52.0             64.2        79.1         87.3
FE-MALe                5.0          5.0      28.0             44.2        48.4         75.8
SECONDART:   TOTAL                   1.0         4.0        3.0              9.0        16.7         21.4
MALE                   2.0          7.0       3.0              12.0       22.1         33.0
FtmLE                 0.2          2.0       1.0              4.4        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL EXROL. (S OF SECONDAlY)    .-            3.0      2S.0              7.0         5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACEtER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         33.0      35.0             42.2        4L.0         34.1
SECtNDARY                           20.0        23.0       14.0             22.9        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          1.5si        5.0      50.04j           20.8        3L.Z         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAN4D
POPULATION                           1.2         2.4        2.7              4.0         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TH.O0USAND
POPULATION                          L2.10        1.0       21.0             44.3        27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..              2.9         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ('DUALY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUlATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    1.0          2.0       1.0              5.6         5.3         18.3
CINEKA A3NNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.4           1.7        ..              0.4         1.1          2.5
LASOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        930.0       1100.0    l2S'1.0
?EMALE (PERCENT)                    30.1        29.7       29.4             3L.9        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.9        84.7       83.0             77.6        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4          5.9        7.0              7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 41.5         38.9      39.1             40.8        36.9         37.1
MALE                                  58.7         55.3      55.9             53.9        52.4         48.8
FES&LE                               24.7         22.8      22.8              25.6       18.0         20.4
ZCOAOKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4       1.3              1.2         1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRISUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HtIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..               ..          ..         15.2
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF' ROUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..               ..          ..        48.2
LOWIEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..               ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCEYrr Of 4 'P4;U         .                      ..               ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED A3SOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 *-           *-     150.0            L87.6       99.2        241.3
RLtAL                                 *-110.t                               96.8        78.9       136.6
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
WhA.                                                       65.0            138.4        91.9       179.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      50.0             71.t3 54.0             103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URkAN                                 ..          ..       40.0             34.5       44.1         24.8
RU7AL                                 ..                   70.0             48.7       53.9         37.5
. oc availabl*
.Noc app1.i.-4'
NOTES
la    The adjusted group averages for each indicator art population-weigh:ed geometric means. excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated reentry In each grouc. Coverage of countries amoOig the
Lodicators depends on availability of data and is mot unLf.IC.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970. betveen 1969
and 1971; and for most R.cent Est-t.e. buecvc..  1974 ad 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   ld  Low Income (252;0 -) ,.; per capita, 1976);   /e  Lowtr XAiddle 1.-..
, !  r capita. 1976);  L/  1978  estimate;  /g  19,53;  /h  1972;  /i  1962;
/i increase due to literary campaign o  1974.-
Kost Raceni Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
May 1980



- 22 -                                                           Annex I
Page 3 of 4
DtPmITIONs 0r SOCIAL.2 1lICAT0Kts
IQU Trh. dj.ad group av-areas for each indicator are population-suighted eeomatric. meena, aclading the extreme .1-m. of the indicator and to. mea,
"...C. c     ..et try- c. each Sroup.   *-.arse of councrice amng2 the indicators 4SP*tdS on availlability of data and is not mifr;.,  D.e to lack of lista
Cro   vOie  for laii   urio            Exportens ond indicators of acres. to oa4ts: aod ecrata disposal. housing. Income distribution andpoetar
si _ple poolaieo-uighced geomestric anion withou,th.roeac)..eino of -C.ta  -ise..
LaMD AREA (thousand sq. Ite)                                                               Posulatior oar hosoital bad - total. urbr. aKw rural - Population (total.
Thta.L - botal-surfac  ar& compolsing land area and inland vaters.                         ucarha, and rural) divided by toxic raaps  c na omhe  of hoSPIt  al sted
AV otC.ZrAl   Mojst recent .stiaa(a of agricultural arta usad temporarf.l'                available in Public and Privatt general and apetiaizei d hospital anbd re-
-r tareManctl  foe Crops.per,       a  escket and kitohsa  g-rden. or to                  hsbilitatloa Cantata.  HoapicALa are astabliahntac  permanently staf fad by
lie  fallow.                                                                              at ieeas  ane phtyslciAn.  Establishmants Providing principally cuatodial
cars are not Included.  Rural hospitals. hewever, include health end mdl-
C"y tPEP :APITA (I'SS) - GVy per capita estimates a: turreut market prtas.                  ta.l cantor. wot permanenl-y Staffed by a physician (b.t by . mNedical aa-
calculated by saame conversion mtatdn as 1.Orld Blank AtIas (1975-77 basis);              sistant, nurse. mldwifa. arc.) ehi.h offer in-petdant accommodatles and
1960, 197,.  Mo  1977 data.                                                              provide a limited tang. of medical facilities.
Adhmiesioas Per bospitia bad - Total suner of admisaona to or dl.achargaa
IVEXY CON)401001100 715 CAPITA - Annual. toneomption. of comercial mnargy                    from  heapitla divided by the somber of bade.
co..l and _'Icnita. petroleen. situ.a. In sanBIhd rAts-.-Imce. and ge_
thermal electricity) I.s kilotree Of coal equIneleuc per capita.                     K0ushlx
Avirian gin  of husehld (ersna oejr haunhd) - to:tl. ubn   n   ua
POPULA.TIONf ASDc VITAL. STATISTICS                                                          A bhsahodcoit   fagopo   niIul   h   bt   Iigqs~
7oa  uati s. ol-near 'millIons) - AS of July I; If net available.                    end their main masia.  A boarder or lodge  may or may mat be inciaded in
avrae  r  w  no.d-tear  setisace; 15960, 1970, a"d 1977 data,                      the housakold for acatieri-a1 purpona.  StAtistical daf initicos of house-
Urban poulation  c(rtrest of total) - hatlto of urban to total papula-                      held vary.
ties; different definition  of urber areme may affect comparability                    Average  ombr of wrarsns Der raosa - totw, urban. end  MCI& - Average esn-
of data ant4 countries.                                                                  her of peremsa per room  is all, others, aNd rural occ-pied ommcea
!u         on   daogy1,                                                               dwellings, respectively.  Dwelings exclude nan-peonmemt structures and
For  sq. km,-PU.-yomr population pat square kilomtatr (100 heataras)                      uonccupied Parts.
of total area.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Access to electrirciy (Percent of duall aa      oal. urhan. end rural -
Pers.a.ut1utr   land - Computed .as above for agriculturtal land                          Conventional dwellings with electritity fin Living quart*rc ma peroencage
only.                                                                                    of total. urban, and rura  duellinga tep-iriely..
PoosIat'lo, sa tructure (sorar.;n) - Cibldren (0-li yarse). workial-age
al-irerc   nd rstired (65 rears end o"at) an Parcantagac of mid-            MUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adiusted enrollment ratIof
Popucation  rowtbv rats ,(=ertnt) - todtal, and urban - Compound annual                  Prim"r school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment ef all  $ags
growth rates of ttl  n   rbia aidyear Populations far 1950-60,                           at ch. primery iave  as p.-vtresase   of ... pecri..Iy primary echml-sags
1960-10. and 1970-75.                                                                    papuatlona; normally Inciudes children aged 6-11 years bet adjusted for
Crude birth raLte (Der chguannd) - Annual live births per thouseod of                      different lengths of priaary education; for cutrrles with caliversal ads-
mid-!ear popuation; tan-year irithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollmet may  Deaomd 100 percent since somer ppl2s are helm, or
1970 and fliv-year a-erage, anding ia 1975 for meat reiant satimate.                     above the official school age.
Crude d4ath rit# (Dot thousand) - Annual deaths per thauaamd of mid-                     Socoodery school - tota,l.fadfml   Computed as above; seaoadry edkme-
year  opulaion;tan-year aritboatic avetages ending in 1960 and i970                 tion requiras at l asa  forya.ofapoe=riay!a*uce.po
and file-y.ar ovrgeeding in 1975 for meet r"eaet estimate.                                Idem  general vocational. or teacher tralning imatructions for peilas
Iroe.  reoroduttlos rate - Averags sumber of daughtasr  a  omas will banr                  usually of 12 to 17 years of ag.;  --rapuesdenie course. ace generally
in her nrcoal reproductive period if  bsh  experiances prae"nt age-                      excluded.
nVysnif Ic fartility rat"a; aauaily five-year evaragee ending in 1960.                   octiUonal  Mnr.lleant (percent of seconder,) - Vocational isetitutioes im-
1970, and 1973.                                                                          telde tachoirel. indastrial. or ether progree woich operate Indapemiantly
fall, pianaio.e - attantors. maca"L(thous"nds) - Anna"l somber of                          CC an dpaprtmeots of secondary institutions.
accpora of blr th_ anclolevce  under s-pise. of eatiosl family                      Funil-t ... jt Ctois - oret,adocodr       oa   tdet   coldI
pianolog program.                                                 pofimary asd iscondary local. dividd   by onsomre of teachers in the Cerre-
fealy  lasius- uer;I or!oen  ofmrriead wanr)-Percentaee  of                         eede   ees
marrie  owen of chVldbasrl   a ge (15-4. yers             whoue birtb-costrol         .d.clierc  rats (series;) - Literate edult. (able to read an   wita) a
devica  to all married women in sas"  ago group.                                         a percencass of total adult population aged 2.3 years ad over.
TOtj..'f tITiION                                                                      COS5SU(erWT(ma
lode  of  ond  rodutionperCapita  19Pt0a1i0) - Index A-ombr of pot              paene   as(e   huadopbulation) - Paseenger Crar  cenpian macor Car$
PaCapit  lanul prdcto  o   ilf    commoditian.                                          senciss laa  than eight P.-o.a; excludes  mbulan...   bia hrms end military
Tsr  apit  SuoloDf "aoIas(ato   fresrmss       omputed from                         vehicle..
energy aqoloalant ofstfD             upl     viabei   onr  por capita                Uidlo receivers f set thousand  "pulazioni) - All types of receivers fot radio
per  &aY.  Available supplies comprIse do*eatit production, imports less              hroadscaeto cc  enral public per thousand of Popuiation; excludes oelI;-amd
exporta. aod changes in stock.  1at Sar  uliies seclude aninel feed. Needs,            receivers In  otoarrlsa and in year. when registration of radio ents  as. in
quaci;ime  uaad le bod p-nc ...ing. and leaoa to distrthutioe.   .-                    affeCt: data for recant yrearsma  ant he comparable state meet cOuntrlca
oulrtmnets were astiated hy lAO based on physiologicAl Dead& for mor-                  abolished Licensing.
cam  activity and health considering enviroomeocal temparsturs. body                  TV receivers (per thousand Population) - TI' receivers for broadcast to gent4t
usigita. iag  aid oa- distrfbutions of population, vAn  allowing 10 per-                 pahlic per th-cand population; anciudeacoies    TY reCeivers incon
cent tot wasteat hou..bold level,                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sats .as in affect.
Per caita sonir  f.oroteln (saims Dot day) - Protein content of per                 ewsape cgLrtltn   (par thousn   oCutID.) - Show  th   Cavese clrculs-
capita set supplyofte  pe r day.  Noet  lupy of food is defined am                        isof"al  gwenrlitet    wppt,dfedaapt icip l-
shne    aquirmennt. fo;.1 r al otrsa establshed by USDA provide for                  caion d.vo:sd primarilyato rrecording denetal nes.  It is eonsidered to
Iat i"imu  al1oweoc  of 6t ar-ae of ctcal prat.i. pet day and 20 or-e                    ha          ifly     it 1   ppearo ot IsaaC four times. a winkh
of.-Ima  and pulra protsin. of which 1i from. shoul  ho animal Protein.             Cinem  annall  attendance par cavit. par near - Based so  :he somber of tilcofot
These standardarelwer that those of 75 gras of natal protein end                         said during the year, including edeissions to dr:w-en-lossiee  and robila
21 grame of animal protein as an acearge !or tia world. proposed by                      usels.
TAO 0 ce. TrhIrd if orid Food 5ar.'er
'er :apit& ortir QAcov fro  aimal and pulsa -_Protein supply of food                  01orX
de.rive   fronamm.a  i  pula           g rans per day.                                Total labor forte  (thousands) -,tconsomicai1y actlve persons, including arnad
Zb~c    bs I-) soralir  rats(ner  housad> -Annual death- per thous-           foress end uneeplievd hutexldn hoewysstdt.   c.                         ehI
a.d is ass group 1-4 y-ar. cc colldras I   ls.ae  group.                                 ties. is v-iouc toustrlas  Crs sot co-prbia,
Tmale  (nre) - Pena. labr forte as percencage of total labor fors..
]VlILTH                                                                                  Anrirultura (percent) - Labor forceto is&amin&, ferancry. hunting and fishing
~.if. "Pcapsca- it birch (rears  - Average pnumber of nears of lifa                        as -reren:age or total Labor tortes.
romalolog At birch; ueually five-rear -*avate  ending in 1960. 197.                   Idustry  ne4rcent) - Labor force J.iin  lg, coustr-tcttOt  eanufecturing and
and 19,slerit.ctrndasepactaeottalbr foace..
.-.;:  orlllrtate (per :ho.s.nd) - Amnu"ldaths of infants Undar                     Prile;nat    era:-ttl.'l.sd(nIe-ocsl. sale, and
ices   ccoD aa   srst,f                                 gnu&ie)-tta.ohn. and rural -    :hnes. etc 1Ills adiantd p.rtitfp.tioetao -.. -xi-tin  -.,..I
Nunbor cpeople  (total, urban, and rural) wIth reasaaobla Access to                      otru.ttur  of chc   ecai.   ono lo-  :'1.  :re-l.
sato rar  co (inc4sd.s treated surface  aters or untreated hrt                       tccncdnednvtcLt - carlo of poico   ccr                          sc.adco
_..oota mned wate  suia  ta rom protecced borahoise. springs,                            th .lbo  frizei  ai  lto.p of 1-3-'a.
she seOltxrt' welloi) as PercentagsWof theIr raspecclos populatnlon.
:  o cie  aces a Pubiic fountain on  C"adpos; lanetd out ants                    rtocru  zmsr
vya  20 s:a.t from  ahouse. oa, a, Donsidered aa being within  sa.-                Percestaase cf private Inrome 'both in c-sh an   107 cnived hr ritbast 3
S.ol hi  aCra   of that ho.e.  In  'rurs  areas reasonahie access weuld                  percent.  richest -'0 Portent. peorast 21 per er:. and pocraft 12 ort
co.ly  ..at th           osaloor mothers of the .,ousehsld do not have to                of hco ...hoids.
opsd   4:oreotinePer- of :.10 oay it fetching the fS%tly's
cats,reca                                                                            POVEIT'f 7ARGE IfylIS
IAccess cc tctcaca Ztianosal  carcet ci pOyclatler' - tore!. 4r5as. and                 E.tintadl ahaolur. oootv.- Iro-ca loa    -l    r z.;it.) - cr-0   o   sl 
r-rsl -  oa   r)People  total, urban, cod rcra1; sr.md by, socraca                          bahal,t. poverty incrie -0re1i. 10tsat ioecrr  l-"el helod  vhi.c  a   ciI
dis~po.al as pnrcaea-g.s, of tvezr rieopcro- popcl.tiosa.  Lycr.to .rconi-aeur  dlot pfl  aeorial  -ot-tod  o:r0tuor
cio Yiloa  coclusa tho  olalc   and dIsposal , ith or clhtbutaiaah.
:rso,:   icoa   art   o  va t-a ye ivviar-borne S,ecsno                       iot:nated telett-v ,ostotooa  oal11  c  scro                      4:3. adtco
cctec.o   it prvsssdcica  i                                                      1-larca.Pearu  scoot:-,  crem   leSc   tat lcr     v      Sue  lt   cr.-  rtt
-*ctOtvtceta  - ?0pLclatir. dl:de  by nuacer Of pra.iirctlg                         ,rszaeenllcn   (teccc
,totc.cIt  talccci  epal grdac   cya,yrcclnuss at                d -:tlaccxc..                  ;peon'C whicsco  is  oaror
uus:llat      'tl ticcoub-so
.1  person   ...,_Atttt 1i  t                                                              ..d r.    _~~~~~~~~~~~~c:corcci   :.SVtZ..ns
jr--# t.r.o., ?Ca.-xl a.r.o..v-:sc's  rc atectct



- 23 -
Annex I
Page 7iof 4
SOMALIA
ICONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA:  US$225 (1978)1/'                                   MONEY.CREDITS AND PRICES
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                 Est.                                         Dec.    Dec.      Dec.      Sept.
1976    1977    1978    1979                                          1976    1977       1978     1979
(Million So.Sh.)                                                        (Million  So.Sh.)
Bank Claims on Government (net)  124.4   -97.8    311.1    877.5
Total Revenue                    656      843    1394    1520    Bank Claims on Private Sector
Current Expenditure              649      770    1353    1500       and Public Enterprises             986.4  1280.7   1404.7   1605.3
Current Surplus                    7       73       41      20    Money Supply                         994.9  1325.1   1728.0   2126.7
Development Expenditure          165      211      197     250
Extra Budgetary Expenditure    --         279      541     790                                         (Percentage or Index Numbers)
Overall Deficit                  --       417      697    1020
General Price tndex (1970-100)   172.0   190.9    208.6          -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                             2/    Annual Perceiitage Charges in:
1975    1976    1977    1978-   General Price Index                    ]6.6    10.9        9.3     -
(Million USS)                Bank Claims on Private Sector
and Public Eaterprises            -5.3    29.8        9.7      14.6
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)   88.6    81.0    71.3   109.5   Money Supply                              20.5    33.2      30.4      23.J
Merchandise Imports (f.o.b.) -141.1  -153.1  -175.1  -244.2
Trade Balance                   -52.5  - 72.1  -103.8  -134.7   MERCHtANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
Services, Net                  - 49.7  - 38.0  - 36.9  - 41.2                                         1US$ Mln.           Z
Transfers, Net                  102 7    40.8   108.0   05.8
Current Account Balance           0    - 69.3  - 32.7  - 70.0   Livestock                                 60.9           69.1
Bananas                                15.2           17.2
Long-Term Capital                52.8    69.6    64.2    71.0   Meat and Meat Products                     3.0            3.4
Short Term Capital and                                             Hides and Skirs                         3.8            4.3
Errors and Omissions          - 26.2    13.3      5.3      7.3   Fish and Fish Products                   1.5            1.7
Reserves and Related Items   - 26.6   -13.7   -36.9   - 8.2   Others                                       3.7            4.3
International Rcserves                                                Total                               88.1          100.0
(end year)                      68.5    85.0   120.5   130.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Petroleum Imports                 19.1    18.5    38.7       NA                                          US; Mln.
Public Debt (Dec. 31, 1978)          1,003.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE      US$1.00 - So. Sh. 6.295(Since 1973)            (of which Disbursed)               (  495.7)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO
Public Debt 1M78 (estimate)              8.0
IDA LENDING  April 30, 1980)         US$ Mln.
Outstanding and Disbursed               64.7
Undisbursed                             76.1
Outstanding  mncl. Undisbursed         140.8
Based on recently prepared tentative estimates of National Accounts.                                        May  1980
-- Not available
- Not applicable
2/ The i-port data for 1978 include. but previous years' exclude Pranco Valita imports.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1980)
(US$ Million)
Amount   Undisbursed
(Net of cancellations
No.       Year    Borrower          Purpose             and exchange adjustments)
(CY)
Six credits fully disbursed                                34.9
462-S0    1974    Somalia    Trans-Juba Livestock          10.0         3.9
511-S0    1974    Somalia    Second Education               8.0         1.0
586-SO    1975    Somalia    Mogadishu Port Extension    5.2            0.2
623-SO    1976    Somalia    Drought Rehabilitation         8.0         4.1
635-SO    1976    Somalia    North-West Agriculture        10.0         6.7
698-SO    1977    Somalia    Somali Development Bank        5.0         4.8
699-SO    1977    Somalia    Third Highway (Hargeisa-
Borama)                       7.0        4.4
738-SO    1977    Somalia    Third Education                8.0         7.3
821-SO    1978    Somalia    Technical Assistance           3.0         3.0
622-SO    1978    Somalia    Mogadishu Water Supply         6.0         5.5
838-SO    1978    Somalia    Fourtk Port                    5.5         4.7
905-SO    1979    Somalia    Agriculture Extension         10.5        10.5
906-SO    1979    Somalia    Central Rangelands             8.0         8.0
972-SO    1979    Somalia    Bay Agriculture               12.0        12.0
Total                      141.4        76.1
of which has been paid       0.6
total now held by IDA      140.6



- 25 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - S0OMALIA 1/
Credit No. 462:        Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 Million Credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of E: fectiveness: October 29,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Stock route and ranch development have made good progress but bore-
hole drilling and the veterinary assistance comrponent are delayed. FAO has
supplied an irrigation engineer, and 4 senior staff have been recruited
by the Livestock Development Agency directly fromn India to replace supervision
consultants. Certain measures to improve Project Management and to enable
satisfactory completion of the Project have been taken by the Government,
Credit No. 511:        Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date of Effectiveness:  December 19, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1960.
The Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use.
Construction of the nomadic centers, the Academy of Somali Studies and the
Fishery and Marine Institute are about a year behind schedule due to staffing
shortage of the Project Inplementation UJnit and delays in establishing cri-
teria for locating the 1Tomadic Training Centers. Construction contracts have
now been awarded for 19 of the 22 project institutions and disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly as a result. Latest cost estimates indicate an
overrun of about 3 percent which is manageable.
Credit No. 623:       Dr ught Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The Project, conceived during the 1973/74 drought emergency, was
inadequately prepared. As a result, it now apears that there is narginal
potential for rainfed cropping the project's main thrust. In January 1979, it
was agreed to restrict initial development to trial areas, but during the
September 1979 Project Implementation Review, tle Covernment insisted on
carrying out the full 15,000 ha program. It was agreed that a special mission
would review the situation, to be followed by ar in-depth review to discuss
rainfed cropping potential, draw up a trails anci crop production production
program, and discuss the project's future. The performnance of consultants
has been poor. Project equipment has been under-utilized due to the rainfed
cropping and the inability to use the equipmrent in irrigated areas in the
absence of an agreement on inland international waterways. Population in the
proposed settlement areas has been declining.  ]'roject accounts are overdue.
The credit agreement was amended to finance the Governrment's Project Imple-
mentation UTnit, and the closing date extended two years. The PIU is fully
staffed and operating successfully under the State Planning Commission.
1/   These notes are designed to inform  the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lens which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Credit No. 635:      North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10
million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is behind schedule as the result of setbacks
suffered following the Ogaden war. Progress is improving but is still uneven.
The field bunding program for 1979 reached 100% of target, and gully control
work was commenced. On the other hand, the water point construction program
is behind schedule, as are the trials and seed multiplication program. Some
field trials and extension have been carried out but these programs need
better direction. External training is being organized and the building pro-
gram is well underway. A contract was awarded in November 1979 for the
feasibility study and technical assistance in siting the irrigation farm com-
ponent, and work has begun. Mlain problems are in planning capacity, budget
approach, mapping, bund damage, supply of agricultural inputs to farmers and
excessive livestock pressure.  Except for the latter, all of these can be
readily solved with appropriate planning and specialist assistance.
Credit No. 698:      Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
SDB's volume of operations, and also disbursements to date under
the IDA Credit, have so far proceeded at lower than expected levels due mainly
to slower growth in SDB lending to industry. Implementation of the technical
assistance component of the Project, including training of Somali staff and
recruitment of expatriate advisers, is progressing.
Credit No. 699:      Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date:
December 30, 1980.
The contract for construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road,
with a link to Tug Wajale, has been awarded and consultants engaged to carry
out supervision. The Construction work started on January 10, 1978. However,
the construction work came to a standstill at the end of November, 1978
following a bombardment at Gebile, near the Contractors' main camp. All
expatriate staff of the Contractor left the project site. However, the
Contractor resumed construction during the first week of February 1979.
Technical proposals, from a short list of consulting firms, for provision of
services covering feasibility study for the Dinsor-Bardera-Gelib road were
evaluated by the Covernment and subsequently consultants satisfactory to the
Association were selected. The feasibility study is under preparation.
Credit No. 738:      Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of Septenber 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Physical implementation is still in the preparatory phase. Design
work and tender documents have been completed for the State Printing Agency
extensions and for the new Health Personnel Training Institute. Technical
assistance has been recruited for the manpower survey and for the National
Trade-Testing Center. Nine Somalis have commenced studies abroad in curricu-
lum development. The technical and accountancy sections of the Project Unit
are adequately staffed and overall progress is satisfactory.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 821-SO: Technical Assistance Project.; $3 million Credit of
June 30, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 1,
1979; Closing Date: Decembe.r 1, 1981.
The Senior Project Advisor has been appointed and the Credit became
effective recently. Several sub-projects have been identified and preparation
for some of them is in progress.
Credit No. 822-SO: Mogadishu Water Supply Pro,iect; $6 million Credit of
June 30, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 2,
1979: Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The Technical Operations Adviser and the Financial Advisor have
been appointed and the Credit has become effective.
Credit No. 838-SO: Fourth Port Project; $5.5 million Credit of August 23,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This Credit has become effective. The tenders for bidding on the
construction of the Tanker Terminal were issued recently.
Credit No. 905-SO: Agricultural Extension and Training Project: $10.5 million
Credit of May 10, 1979; Planned Date of Effectivess:
January 22, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Credit has not yet become effective.
Credit No. 906-SO: Central Rangelands Development Project; US$8 million
Credit of May 10, 1979; pltnned Date of Effectiveness:
January 22, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This Credit has not yet become effective.
Credit No. 972-SO: Bay Region Agricultural Devrelopment Project;
$12 million Credit of Decemaber 27, 1979;
planned Date of Effectiveness: June 26, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987.
This Credit was signed on March 26, 1980.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of key events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   4 months
(b)  Project prepared by:  Government and IDA
(c)  Identification mission:  September 1979
(d)  Appraisal mission:  January 1980
(e)  Negotiations:  April 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  October 1980
Section II - Special IDA implementation action: None
Section III - Special conditions:
(a)  A suitable energy commission would be established in consultation
with the Association not later than December 31, 1981 (para. 26).
(b)  A condition for disbursing funds for the geophysical survey
of Afgoi-Coriole is for the exploration consultants to prepare
a detailed program satisfactory to the Government and IDA
(para. 44(B)).
(c) A condition for disbursing funds for the evaluation of oil
shale reserves is that the preliminary assessment conclude
to the satisfaction of the Government and IDA that further
work on the deposits is warranted (para. 44(C)).
(d)  The Government would discuss with IDA the conclusions of
the pricing and organization studies as well as steps
to implement them (para. 44(D).
(e)  Any proceeds derived from selling studies financed under the
project would be put in a special account and used for petroleum
studies and surveys (para. 47); and
(f)  NMWP would employ a financial officer acceptable to the
Association before October 1980 (para. 49).



- 29 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
HYDROCARBON GEOLOGY AND STATUS OF EXPLORATION
1.        Geology.  Nearly 90% of the roughly one million km  of land and
marine area (to a 200-rn water depth) is underlain by a sedimentary section
with limited to fair petroleum potential.  Initially, the perspective sedi-
ments were deposited in a series of grabens (rift basins), separated by
intervening horst blocks over which sediments are either thin or absent.
These trend NE/SW roughly parallel to the present coastline. In the north,
the composite trend of rifting shifts to nearly E-W, parallel to the south
coast of the Gulf of Aden.  These initial basins in both areas were formed
during the Karroo stage (Permian to early Jurassi(:). They received signifi-
cant thicknesses of Karroo sediments which are principally nonmarine. Mfarine
transgression began in mid-Jurassic and most of the sediments deposited during
the remainder of the Mesozoic period were marine with carbonates predominating.
2.        The development of the graben trough basins was accomplished by
extensional forces accompanied by considerable lateral movement. This re-
sulted in extensive faulting and some complex foliing.  This same type of
movement continued during the early Tertiary peribd.  The Tertiary sequence
was deposited progradating toward the Indian Ocean and generally overriding
the major structural features. This section becones progressively more marine
tovward the coast and offshore.
3.        Exploration history.  Although Somalia has been explored for oil
since the 1920s, exploration began in earnest after WW II when Shell became
active in the former British Somaliland and Sinclair and Agip in the former
Italian Somalia. Since then, BP, C-ulf, Conoco, Texaco and Elf among others,
acquired and relinquished exploration acreage after having carried out gravi-
metric, magnetic and seismic surveys and exploratory drilling. All activity
ceased from 1977 to 1979. At present two companies are active: Arco in the
Mudug Basin and Texaco in the Lamu Embayment. Arco has commissioned a 1,200-km
seismic survey and intends to spud its first well by mid-March 1980. Texaco
is planning to begin a seismic survey in the summer of 1980.
4.        As a result of past exploration effortE<, some 54 wells have been
drilled and minor shows of oil and in particular gas have been recorded in 15
of these wells, although none have proved to date to be of great significance.
The value of many of these exploratory tests is (luestionable since only seven
of the exploratory holes have been drilled with the benefit of modern digital
seismic data. The most promising shows were encountered near Berbera in
the Daga Shebel Basin (coast of Gulf of Aden) where there are numerous surface
seeps of heavy oil and one early well is reported to have tested at the rate
of 40 BD.  Several wells in the coastal basins have reported gas shows.  The
more important are the Afgoi-l and the Coriole-l. The Afgoi-l tested gas
and condensate at the rate of 15 MM4CFD and 110 B], respectively from Upper
Cretaceous sandstones.  The Coriole-l tested miinor amounts of oil from an



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
Eocene carbonate (principally limestone) and gas from an Upper Cretaceous
siltstone at the rate of 2 IIMCFD plus an unknown quantity of condensate; how-
ever, the flow rate and pressure declined significantly during the short test
period. Based on the questionable seismic interpretations available (largely
premultiple coverage and refraction), the Afgoi-Coriole Embayment appears
structurally complex, being mapped differently by several companies involved
in prior exploration. This embayment, together with the heavy oil area near
Berbera, warrants further examination and is not currently under license to
foreign oil companies.
5.        Petroleum Potential.  In general, it can be stated that the petroleum
potential of Somalia has yet to be evaluated. As mentioned, only a few of
the exploratory wells drilled to date appear to be valid or optimum tests of
defined structure. Even so more than one fourth of these had some kind of
oil or gas show. As a result of the larger percentage of marine Ilesozoic
and Tertiary strats, the coastal basins of Somalia are likely to have better
petroleum potential than the interior basins. Structural traps are expected
to be both numerous and complex resulting from burial over intertrough highs,
compressional folds associated with lateral fault movement, possible diapiric
structures related to Karroo salt anticlines and domes and, near the coast
and offshore, roll over into down-to-basin faults. Reservoir beds are present
throughout the section as both carbonates (including suspected reefs) and
sandstones. Intervening marine shales and fine-grained carbonates should
provide source rocks. However, these appear to be limited based on incomplete
geochemical analyses which indicate that these shales may be fairly lean and
gas prone. It should be noted that intrusive rocks, dikes and sills encountered
in the vicinity of the wells add to the structural complexity and generally
diminish petroleum potential.



- 31 -                      ATTACHMENT I
ANNEX IV
Page 1
Glossary of Geologic Terms
Anticline:                A term indicating a discrete positive (high) closure,
usually an upward arching of sediments caused by
compressional forces within the earth; often used to
denote any type of positive closure which may be the
result of drape over butried topography or residual
structure bounded by areas of negative closure
(syncline); with regional or nondiscrete positive
closures, the term arch is more common.
Diapir, diapiric:         A flowage of plastic sedimentary rocks, usually salt
or undercompacted shales (those which retain a high
fraction of formation water relative to depth of
burial), caused by an Lnversion in the specific
gravity of rocks with depth (light below heavy);
diapiric relates to structuring developed when
diapirs are present or to the cause of the diapir,
i.e., diapiric shale.
Dike:                     An intrusive body of crystalline rock whose geometry
ia tabular with a vertical or near vertical attitude,
i.e., if the proexisting rock is sedimentary, cuts
across bedding planes.
Facies:                   Descriptive of sedimentary rocks of a common compo-
sition deposited in a particular manner; may apply to
both general and/or specific conditions of deposition.
Graben (trough):          A fault-bounded structurally low block in which
movement involved crystalline basement rock as well
well as overlying sedimentary rocks; grabens are
normally associated with and adjacent to horsts.
Horst (horst block):      a fault-bounded structurally high block in which
movement involved crystalline basement rock as well
as overlying sedimentary rocks.
Intrusive:                A crystalline igneous rock injected in a fluid
phase into preexistine rocks, either igneous,
*                                   metamorphic or sedimentary.
Karroo:                   A thick, generally normarine sedimentary rock sequence
found in the sub-Sahara of Africa ranging in age from
the Paleozoic Carboniferous through Mesozoic Triassic
and into the Mesozoic Lower Juraasic; precise age
determination often difficult and thus lumped into
general term "Karroo."



- 32 -
ATTACHMENT I
ANNEX IV
Page 2
Mesozoic:                  The system of sedimentary rocks occupying the middle
ages of the geologic time scale, comprising the
Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous Periods; the
Mesozoic system is typified by a reptilian fauna and
a coniferous flora which overlies the older Paleozoic
system and underlies the Cenozoic system (Tertiary,
Quartenary and Recent).
Paleozoic:                The system of sedimentary rocks occupying the early
ages of the geologic time scale comprising the
Cambrian, Ordovician, Devonian, Silurian, Carboni-
ferous and Permian Periods; the Paleozoic system is
typified by an invertebrate fauna but witnessed the
evolution of fish and near the shore primitive
reptiles as well and a flora evolving through algae,
ferns and primative conifers; the pre-Cambrian
system, consisting principally of nonsedimentary
rocks and occasionally sedimentary rocks deficient
in fossils, underlies the Paleozoic.
Play:                     A grouping of petroleum prospects in which the type
of trap as well as age and composition of reservoir
and source rocks (independently) are believed to be
common; synonomous with "trend" if and when pros-
pects become productive fields.
Progradation:             The deposition of sediments in a seaward direction
and outbuilding of shoreline, ultimately resulting
in nonmarine sediments overlying marine, due to
regression (lowering sea level due to uplift or
worldwide fall in sea level), rapid influx of
sediments into a static sea level, or at a rate
exceeding a rise in sea level.
Reef:                     A build-up of carbonate rocks (limestone or dolomite)
consisting of a particular assemblage of organic
skeletal material formed in warm, nonturbid seas;
following burial forms a unique type of reservoir
and trap.
Reservoir rock:           Those rock formations which have retained after
burial sufficient porosity and permeability (pore
space connections) to contain fluids; either oil,
gas or water.



- 33 -
ATTACHMENT 1
ANNEX IV
Page 3
Rift:                      Similar to graben except used on a more regional
scale such as rift sysl:em when associated grabens
and minor intervening horsts are included in the
overall rift (system).
Show:                      A positive indication of the presence of oil and/or
gas either in the subsurface (wells) or at the sur-
face from seeps, notes from surface samples, drill
cuttings, subsurface cores or fluid recovery; shows
may vary widely both quantitatively and qualitatively.
Sill:                      An intrusive body of crystalline rock whose geometry
is tabular with a horizontal or near horizontal
attitude, i.e., if preexisting rock is sedimentary,
is parallel to bedding planes.
Source rock:               Those sedimentary rock formations which are either
known or thought to have retained the organic debris
which under conditions of burial (heat, pressure and
time) are transformed into either oil or gas; usually
shalc (compacted clay) or fine-grained carbonate
(limestone).
Transgression:             The invasion of the sea (introducing a marine
environment of deposition) over an existing sub-
aereal surface caused either by subsidence or a
worldwide rise in sea level; sediments deposited
during transgression tre called a transgressive
facies and tend to be widespread in extent.
Trap:                      A barrier to the migration of fluids through a
reservoir rock; may result from structural movement
or lateral change in reservoir characteristics.
Unconformity:              A surface of divergence in the attitude between
an underlying and overlying sequence of sedimentary
rocks caused by structural movement and/or a change
in the character of the depositional environment of
the overlying sedimeni:s or involving a hiatus in
deposition and a period of erosion of the underlying
sediment.



- 34 -
ANNEX V
SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION
1.   Assistance to DNH
Employment of exploration, accounting
and legal consultants                                 June 1980
Preparation of documents for first round
of bidding for exploration permits               :   January 1981
Negotiations with oil companies                        :   June 1981
Second round of bidding for exploration permits    :   January 1982
2.   Afgoi-Coriole Prospects
Completion of assessment by exploration consultants:   January 1981
Geophysical work                                       :  March-November 1981
3.   Northern Somalia Oil Shales
Selection of consultants                                    December 1980
Report on assessment                                        June 1981
Completion of reserve evaluation                       :    December 1981
4.   Energy Planning
Selection of consultants                                    December 1980
Organization report                                    :    June 1981
Pricing study                                               June 1981
Final report                                           .    December 1981



I B R D 14897
418' ~~~~~~~MRH 1980
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC                          48C
/''       .   <>              REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
./DJIBOUTI                                                 Gul1  of  Aden                                        X ered 1
....   . . DJIBOUTI                                                         A       B
Seyla                                                         A
(       /                 Berbero                              igavo
\ >y     P                            (                       S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Laz Dava;> g
'It.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scusciuba
Boramc                /     0   c-1                         
Nabadid
TO Wg                                                                             Gardl                       Bender Beile
ei~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
\    Slhleh               Ain
- M- A A          A                   .                       Bo- otleh Veiro
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION                                                                                                                         8-
PROMOTION   PROJECT  .                                                         .. .... .
'_ _ 3  ARrA$UNAPEt I4IR    E
*      lP*A`LE 0E OP 
OIL WE LlS
9llVTMtN0OJS SUIJAW  ROD                                        AV9AAl
MAJO F'O                                 tOs/r    i                                 'alkayo/ 
+     0(nMrPST  AIRFIELDS
fNTE  ,ATl   NA. 9 NA R I EL S+1
-       *-  114Th  l   RALEOL/      -- D-AR  1I O
Gonant                             /    /                    0 / 0    100   150   200   250u300
0                <<9   //   /t\    "UDUG   Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H6byo
Aud,nle  Bijr Akraba511
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ...? ...  ....                         proe h: .h Worl nFit Ftf 000 \yo /h SO CO
Bardese           Pg l ArBeletw                          E  Bur
Dugium
LAA4U /50/'a<Lu                                        /                                         of                NO   2       5
/  Ganane\                                     uUo;/                                     0     50   100   I5      0     5      0
.....  \  \                                 \              /     vr         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
/MBA        T    / Aa       \ Bonka'                                     /
A       Wi~~nsor proposeod rGeophyso    /&      i=ipff31eitir<ffhtnrs<rrblets
MOGADISHU                         
l(olb/9/             >KI1rKayo 0<
\t , /\/ >z \< / ~~~~~~~~~~~INDIAN OCEAN
E     ,                                440                                                  ,:8       ?ANDugG5uma5N



