CREDIT NUMBER 1043 SO
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    A4    .-4r, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1043 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /V/0    . (,,7         , 1980, between
Somali Democratic Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MMWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Mineral and
Water Resources; and
(b) "DMH" means the Borrower's Department of Mines and
Hydrocarbons within MMWR.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿-2-
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, provided that no withdrawals shall be
made: (i) for expenditures required under Part B of the Project
unless the program of work for Part B of the Project prepared by
the exploration consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement has been approved by MMWR and the Association; and
(ii) for expenditures required for the reserve estimate and the
preparation of the development program under Part C of the Project
unless MMWR and the Association are satisfied that such work is
warranted.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1990, and ending
March 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿3
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DMH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
petroleum exploration practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part A 1 of the Project and the training of designated DM
staff under Part A 4 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
petroleum exploration consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A
2 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ legal consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satistactory to the Association.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A
3 of the Project, and in training designated DMH staff under
Part A 4 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ petroleum
accounting consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
(d) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ oil shale specialists
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(e) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D
of the Project the Borrower shall employ planning consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Section 3.05 (b) (i) of this Agreement the Borrower shall, not
later than October 1, 1980 employ in MMWR a financial officer
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.


﻿-4-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (ifi) shall cause DME to furnish to the
Association quarterly and annually all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
execution, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, and all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning exploration in the energy sector.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in- such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development


﻿-5-
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall until December 31, 1985 record all
proceeds collected from the sale of reports, studies, data or
other activities carried out under the Project in a separate
account to be kept by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and used
solely for financing further petroleum studies and surveys.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall consult with the Associa-
tion on the conclusions of the studies included in Part D (i)
and (ii) of the Project and the steps to be taken to put into
effect such conclusions prior to putting into effect such con-
clusions.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982, establish in consultation with the Association a
suitable energy commission to coordinate development of the energy
sector.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate
accounts and financial statements (statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for the Project for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the


﻿-6-
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning such accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date h      a     /0,           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mogadishu
Somalia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By/5       01AY'k/-.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional ice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the alloca-
tion of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Technical assistance                            2,445,000
to DMH, vehicles and
equipment
(2) Geophysical survey                              2,100,000
(3) Energy planning                                   225,000
(4) Unallocated                                     1,230,000
TOTAL    6,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to June 10, 1980;
or
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by


﻿notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists in:,
Part A:   Execution of the following:
1.   With the assistance of the exploration consultants
referred to -in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement:
(a) securing and evaluating available data pertaining
to hydrocarbon exploration in Somalia, both on-
and offshore, reworking and reinterpreting the data
as necessary (including updating the biostrat-
igraphy and geochemistry), and preparing such maps
and cross sections needed clearly to exhibit the
petroleum potential;
(b) devising a strategy for promoting the petroleum
potential to oil companies;
(c) preparing a detailed geophysical program on the
Coriole-Afgoi prospects;
(d) improving the contractual framework for granting
exploration permits to oil companies (together with
the legal consultants referred to in Section 3.02
(b) of this Agreement);
(e) administering acreage bidding (including definition
of permits, preparation of data packages, advertis-
ing the bidding, evaluation and comparison of the
bids);
(f) negotiating with companies for exploration and
development (together with the legal consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement);
and
(g) on a periodic basis, monitoring and interpreting
the work of operating companies, supervising the
geophysical work on the Cariole-Afgoi prospects and
interpreting the data acquired (after the first six


﻿- 11 -
months of the employment of the exploration
consultants).
2.   With the assistance of the legal consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, improving the legal frame-
work in the petroleum mining sector and negotiating with companies
for exploration and development work.
3.   With the assistance of the petroleum accounting con-
sultants referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement,
establishment of a petroleum accounting system designed to con-
trol, monitor and audit expenditures of the operating companies.
4.   Provision of one-year fellowships for six staff of
DMH. Observation of geochemical analysis and seismic record
processing by DMH's staff. On-the-job training of designated DMH
staff by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) and (c)
of this Agreement.
5.   Procurement of office and field equipment and their
use to support the work of the consultants referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement and to store geological and geophysical
data.
6.   Carrying out of special studies such as geochemical,
paleontological and palynological analyses, interpretation of
Landsat imagery, and seismic reprocessing and reinterpretation,
necessary to complement the work of the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
PART B:   Geophysical Survey of the Coriole-Afgoi Prospects
Carrying out of a geophysical survey of the Coriole-Afgoi
prospects, including 700 km of detailed land seismic, aimed at
confirming whether the structures are worthy of further drilling.
PART C:   Assessment of the Oil Shale in the Northern Regions
Making of a preliminary assessment of the Northern Regions
oil shale deposits and the nearby heavy oil shows with the assis-
tance of the oil shale specialists referred to in Section 3.02 (d)
of this Agreement; collection of oil shale samples and carrying
out of the necessary laboratory tests; if such tests are positive,
estimation of the reserves and preparation of a detailed program
for the development of such deposits.


﻿- 12 -
PART D:   Energy Planning
Establishment of a data base for policy decisions, analyzing
priority issues in the energy sector, establishing the framework
for continuous sectoral planning and creating a national energy
planning capability by doing the following:
(i) evaluation of energy demand, carrying out of a fuel
pricing study, identification of development
options including more efficient use of traditional
energy sources, conservation and increase of
energy efficiency; and evaluation of project
proposals with a view toward strengthening the
Borrower's ability to make appropriate investment
decisions;
(ii) carrying out of a study of institutional, admini-
strative and manpower requirements for more
effective sectoral policies and planning; and
(iii) provision of two scholarships for participation in
programs on energy economics, policies and admini-
stration.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Services for the geophysical survey (Part B of the Project)
shall be procured under a contract awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For services to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Vehicles and office and laboratory equipment shall be pro-
cured in accordance with the usual procedures of the Borrower's
MMWR.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to the contract for the geophysical survey:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitation


﻿- 14 -
to bid and other bidding documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modificatior in the said documents or procedures
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by


﻿- 15 -
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the. reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     tk   -day of JIZ       ,
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


