Report No. PID9792
Project Name                     Mozambique-Economic Management and Private (@)
Sector Operation
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       MZPE49878
Borrower                         Republic of Mozambique
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Planning and Finance
Environment Category             C
Date this PID prepared           August 6, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                             April 23, 2002
Projected Board Date             August 29, 2002
Country and Sector Background
1.      The structural reforms that the Government of Mozambique
implemented since the peace accords of 1992 included reform of the
financial sector, privatization of public enterprises, tax and trade
reforms, and strengthening of public administration. These were aimed
at supporting macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment to
achieve sustained growth with poverty reduction. Following
privatization of two banks, inflation fell from 54t in 1995 to 17t in
1996 and was in single digits until 2000, when the 12-month rate rose
to 11t as a result of the floods. Since 1994, GDP has grown at an
average annual rate of 8.4 percent driven by agriculture, commerce,
manufacturing, construction and electricity. Exports of goods and
services grew at 7.4k annually between 1994 and 1999.
2.      The floods and cyclone disaster of March 2000 resulted in sharply
lower growth perspectives: GDP growth is predicted to be only 3.8
percent in 2000, albeit with an anticipated recovery to 10 percent in
2001. The treasury bill rate (90 days) rose from 12 percent in January
2000 to 17 percent in August 2000. Monetary policy is being tightened
in order to fight inflationary expectations.
3.      Mozambique's strong performance has been supported by
considerable foreign assistance. Since 1986, the Government has
received US$ 8 billion in external aid, or almost US$ 600 million per
annum about 17 percent of GDP or 50 percent of Government spending.
The Country's Reform Program
4.      The main objectives of the Government's reform program are to
regain macroeconomic stability as indicated by single-digit inflation,
maintain high growth rates (the Government's aim as stated in the PRSP
is 8t GDP growth p.a.), reduce its aid dependency and ensure increasing
social expenditures in order to achieve educational and health goals.
To this effect, the government is committed to maintaining its prudent
macroeconomic policy stance, while continuing to deepen the
comprehensive systemic reforms already under way. The authorities



recognize that continued progress in privatization, liberalization and
financial sector reform are necessary underpinnings to continued
economic growth. At the same time, they are firmly committed to
ensuring that the benefits received through the HIPC and the Extended
HIPC are spent on effective education and health programs and on
combating HIV/AIDS.
The Proposed Credit
Objectives
6.      The primary objective of the Economic Management and Private
Sector Operation is to support the Government's program to consolidate
macroeconomic stability and to lay the foundations for sustained
private sector-led growth over the medium term. The program includes
measures to: (a) extend budget coverage to include all fees charged by
sector ministries and selected donor development funding, (b) do a
public expenditure review, (c) resolve the financial difficulties of
two of the banks, strengthen licensing and supervision in the financial
sector, and dilute further government ownership in the financial
sector, (d) liberalize telecommunications by revising the legislation
and issuing two new cellular licenses with gateway access, (e) initiate
the privatization of the incumbent telecommunications firm, (f)
liberalize air transport and (g) make progress with the privatization
of the petroleum company PETROMOC.
Project Implementation
7.      The proposed Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
(EMPSO) credit will be made to the Republic of Mozambique, represented
by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. The proposed Credit will be
released in two tranches: the first on effectiveness and the second on
fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions, if general
progress on implementation of the Letter of Development Policy
(including attainment of its macroeconomic stability objectives) is
also satisfactory. A task force drawn from the central and line
agencies, and coordinated by the Ministry of Finance, will be
established to monitor implementation of the program.
7.      A Telecommunications and Air Transport Technical Assistance
Project has been set up in parallel in order to ensure that the
Government will have the resources it requires to effect the needed
reforms in these areas.
Poverty Category
8.      The proposed Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
(EMPSO) will support the Government's overall poverty reduction efforts
as described in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. To achieve these
it will be essential to attain GDP growth of at least 5% per annum,
which will reduce the poverty headcount from 69% (as of 1997) to 52% in
2005. It will do this by helping improve the allocation of government
expenditures through extending budget coverage, and by promoting
private sector development through liberalization of infrastructure and
other measures.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
(a)     Limited human capital resources are a feature of most of the
countries of southern Africa. Hence the focus will be on practicable
- 2 -



measures, backed up by technical assistance (e.g. the parallel
technical assistance project for telecoms and air transport).
(b)     The previous adjustment operation, the Economic Management Reform
Operation (1998-99), included acceleration of the import process
through simplification of the approval process. Despite an initial
improvement in the import lag time, matters appear to have
deteriorated. The problem was in the design: the reform was reversible
at no or low cost. Hence this operation will seek out reforms which
are near-irreversible.
(c)     Long, complex lists of actions to be done by the second tranche
are not credible and induce the Bank staff to seek waivers. Hence this
operation will have a small number of conditions which will be
carefully selected and clearly enunciated.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The proposed credit will have no direct impact on the
environment. For the purposes of OD 4.01, the proposed credit has been
placed in Category C which does not require an environmental
assessment.
Program Objective Categories
10.     The proposed project would contribute to the development of
Mozambique through its impact on the efficiency of public management
and through its impact on private sector growth. The assistance in
improving the allocation of state resources, through extending budget
coverage and thereby accumulating information essential for rational
decision-making, will have a growth-stimulating and poverty-reducing
impact. Liberalization of essential items of infrastructure
(telecommunications, air transport) will help create the conditions of
sustained growth.
Contact Point:
Peter G. Moll,
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-0479
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
August 16, 2002.
-3-



