Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. MOZ-P7553
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 96.2 MILLION (US$120 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR
THE ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOR OPERATION
August 2, 2002
PREM1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange rate effective July 26, 2002)
Currency Unit = Mozambican Metical
US$1 = Mt 23,437
SDR 1 =US$1.332
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:                      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:                    Darius Mans
Sector Manager:                      Philippe Le Houerou
Team Leader:                         Peter G. Moll



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AIDS           Acquired Immune Deficiency System
BAu            Banco Austral
BCM            Banco Comercial de Mo9ambique
BCP            Banco Comercial de Portugal
BIM            Banco Internacional de Mo9ambique
BM             Banco de Mo9ambique
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CFM            Caminhos de Ferro de Mogambique (Mozambican Railways)
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Review
CG             Consultative Group
c.i.f.         cost, insurance, freight
Df£D           Department for Intemational Development (U.K.)
EDM            Electricidade de Mo9ambique
EMOSE          Empresa Mo9ambicana de Seguros (insurance firm)
EMPSO          Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
FAD            Fiscal Affairs Department of the IMF
FIAS           Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) of the IFC
f.o.b.         free on board
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GNP            Gross National Product
HIV            Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HIPC           Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IDA            International Development Agency
EFC            International Finance Corporation
IFPRI          Intemational Food Policy Research Institute
INE            Instituto Nacional de Estatisticas (National Statistics Institute)
IMF            International Monetary Fund
INSS           Instituto Nacional de Seguranqa Social
IT             Information Technology
LAM            Linhas Aereas de Mo9ambique
MIGA           Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MPF            Ministry of Planning and Finance
Mt             Meticais
NPV            Net Present Value
PARPA          Programa de Ac9ao para a RedugAo da Pobreza Absoluta (see PRSP)
PEMR           Public Expenditure Management Review
PER            Public Expenditure Review
PETROMOC       Empresa Nacional de Petr6leos de Mo9ambique
PRGF           Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRO-AGRI       Agricultural Sector-Wide Program
PRSC           Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (see PARPA)
SADC           Southern Africa Development Community
SME            Small and medium enterprises
STD            Sexually Transmitted Diseases
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



- iv -
TA             technical assistance
TDM             Telecomunica,ces de Mo,ambique
WB              World Bank



TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.    INTRODUCTION ..........................................................                     1
1a.    PREVIOUS REFORMS AND IMPACT ...........................................................1
M.    THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY ........................................................... 6
A.    KEY ELEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY, FROM THE PARPA (PRSP) ................ ................8
Macroeconomic and Financial Management ............................................................8
Good Governance ...........................................................              12
Education, Health and Agriculture ...........................................................  13
Basic Infrastructure ...........................................................         14
"Complementary Activities .                      ...........................................................   14
B.    A PROGRAMMATIC APPROACH .........................................................        17
IV. FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS AND JUSTIFICATION FOR THE CREDIT .18
V. POLICY REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROPOSED CREDIT .21
Public Sector Management Refors .22
Reforms for Private Sector Development .22
VI. OWNERSHIP, DESIGN, DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
ARRANGEMENTS .25
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS .27
VM. RECOMMENDATION .29



-vi -
TABLES
Table 1: Government finance and key ratios, 1998-2003 ................................................  5
Table 2: Balance of payments, 2000 to 2004 ................................................  19
Table 3: Government finance and the EMPSO contribution, 2001-04 ............................... 20
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Policy and Processing Matrix
Annex 2:    Status of World Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
Annex 3:    Mozambique - At A Glance Table
Annex 4:    Mozambique - Selected Economic and Financial Indicators
Annex 5:    Mozambique - Social Indicators
Annex 6:    Letter of Development Policy
The EMPSO was prepared by an IDA team consisting of Peter G. Moll (Task Team Leader), Sherri
Archondo, Maria-Teresa Benito-Spinetto, Jose de Luna, Anthony Hegarty, Dipac Jaiantilal, Jose Leandro,
Ligia Murphy, Mohanmmad Mustafa, Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao, Ahmet Soylemezoglu and Hendrik van
Greuning. The Peer Reviewers were James Hanson (FSP), Warrick Smith (PSAPP) and Vinaya Swaroop
(DECRG). Assistance on judicial issues was provided by Maria Dakolias, Samuel Levy (consultant) and
John Zutt. Overall supervision and guidance were provided by Darius Mans (Country Director), Philippe Le
Houerou (Sector Manager) and James Coates (Resident Representative).



MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOR OPERATION
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Recipient:               Republic of Mozambique
Executing Agency:        Ministry of Planning and Finance
Amount and Terms:        SDR 96.2 million (US$120 million equivalent). Standard
IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity and 1 0-year grace period.
Co-financing:            None
Description:             The proposed operation supports the Government's program
of consolidating macroeconomic stability and laying the
foundations for sustained private sector-led growth over the
medium term. It includes measures to: extend budget
coverage and do a public expenditure review; resolve the
financial difficulties of two of the banks, and reduce
Government ownership in the financial sector; to strengthen
supervision in the financial sector; and to liberalize the
telecommunications and air transport sectors, opening these
sectors to further private participation.
Benefits:                The proposed operation, designed to support the objectives
of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, is part of a
continuing set of reforms designed to consolidate a stable
macroeconomic environment, sustain growth, and reduce
poverty through improvements in the sustainability of public
sector delivery.
Risks:                   The credit involves three main categories of risk. Political
risk arises from the diminishing electoral margins of the
ruling party. This tends to create a climate of risk aversion
and the possibility of slowing down the implementation of
the reforms. Macroeconomic risk arises from diminished
private sector confidence in the wake of the financial
difficulties of the two partly state-owned banks. The
proposed operation seeks to diminish this risk, by reforms
designed to lead to increased transparency, and by reducing
state ownership in the banking sector. Fiduciary risks,
which are spelled out in detail in the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), are high. To mitigate
the risk, the Government is following the action plans agreed



- viii -
upon in the course of the Public Expenditure Management
Review and the CFAA.
Disbursements:          The proposed Credit of US$120 million will be disbursed in
two equal tranches, the first upon effectiveness and the
second when all the second tranche conditions are satisfied,
expected by the end of 2002.
Project ID number:      P049878



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 96.2 MILLION (US$120
MILLION EQUIVALENT) TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE FOR THE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOR OPERATION
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.   I submit for your approval a proposed credit of SDR 96.2 million (US$120 million
equivalent) to Mozambique in support of policy reforms designed to accelerate economic
growth and reduce poverty. The proposed credit will help deepen structural reforms
launched in 1987 to improve economic management and promote private sector growth.
2.    The proposed credit will also assist the Government to meet its financing
requirements in the balance of payments of around US$120 million in 2002 and early
2003. In the fiscal accounts, the credit is part of the overall financial requirement
presented by the Government to the Consultative Group in October 2001, which will
enable the Government to maintain an overall expenditure level of about 28 percent of
GDP needed to meet poverty reduction goals, while keeping domestic borrowing to the
minimum necessary for restructuring of the banking sector, thereby restoring confidence in
the currency and helping to reduce inflation and interest rates. The credit will complement
the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) of the Fund which is likewise aimed at
maintaining macroeconomic stability.
II. PREvious REFORMS AND IMPACT
3.   The reform process from 1987. Since 1987, when the first phase of economic
reforms was launched, Mozambique has shifted to market-oriented policies and has
reduced the role of the state in the economy. The peace agreement signed in 1992 with
the armed opposition opened the way to national reconciliation and democracy. The
economy responded well and a period of rapid economic expansion followed. GDP
growth averaged 6.0 percent during the period 1987-96, accelerating to 9.0 percent during
the period 1996-2001. Exports of goods and services grew at an annual average rate of 20
percent between 1996 and 2001. Growth was broad based, with agriculture, transportation
and industry all showing strong results, and GNP per capita increased by around seven
percent on average during the period 1996-2001. Inflation remained high until the mid-
90's, but fell sharply from 54 percent in 1995 and 45 percent in 1996 to 0.6 percent in
1998 and 2.9 percent in 1999.
4.   Underpinning this high-growth and low-inflation performance were prudent fiscal
and monetary policies, accompanied by substantial external aid and a sound program of
structural reforms based on privatization of state enterprises, financial sector reform (the
two largest state banks were privatized in 1996/97) and trade liberalization. Fiscal
adjustment was accompanied by a shift of resources to the social sectors, and the



implementation of better policy strategies in health and education led to improved social
indicators.
5.   Despite these impressive results, Mozambique remained deeply indebted and highly
dependent on foreign assistance for the delivery of basic social services. External public
debt at the end of 1998, taking into account debt relief under traditional mechanisms was
US$6 billion (US$2.7 billion in NPV terms), or 549 percent of exports. As a result of the
good stabilization and adjustment record as well as the Government's reform agenda,
Mozambique reached the extended HIPC completion point in September 2001, reducing its
external debt, in NPV terms, to 113 percent of exports.
6.   Impact on poverty. While poverty continues to be widespread in Mozambique, the
spurt of growth since the accords of 1992 has benefited the poor. Per capita consumption
grew at an average 3.0 percent annually between 1992 and 2002. Per capita agricultural
GDP grew at an average 5.0 percent annually between 1992 and 2000, and cereals
production doubled. Data from the health.and education sector, for example, point to
increases in the quantity and improvements in the quality of public services delivered.
Nonetheless, the most recent household survey indicates that about 69 percent of the
Mozambican population is below the poverty line.
7.   Past adjustment operations. Mozambique's first two adjustment operations were
approved in 1988 and 1989, and focused on rehabilitation measures. The third operation,
the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC, 1992), supported the early phase of financial sector
reform, particularly the separation of commercial bank functions from the Banco de
Mocambique, and the liberalization of the exchange rate. The fourth operation, the Second
Economic Recovery Credit (1995), promoted macroeconomic stability, financial sector
reform, privatization and improved public expenditure management. The fifth operation,
Third Economic Recovery Credit (1997), focused on the privatization of the two state-
owned banks, a necessary step toward better monetary control, the adoption of a budget
reform program, limits to indirect subsidies to public enterprises, as well as the
rationalization of the tariff and indirect tax regime, monitoring of the impact of the
liberalization of the cashew sector, and the restructuring of the state ports and railway
company (CFM). The sixth operation, the Economic Management Reform Operation
(EMRO, 1999) concentrated on revenue mobilization (introduction of a value added tax)
and the incentive regime, encompassing indirect tax reforms, trade liberalization and
simplification of import procedures, as well as improved budgetary management and more
effective expenditure planning.
8.   Lessons from past adjustment operations. Structural adjustment programmes
have been a cornerstone of World Bank policy since the early 1980's. A series of
evaluation studies point to a number of common lessons that are important in the design of
successful adjustment programmes. The first key prerequisite for a successful structural
adjustment program is macro-economic stability. A second key ingredient for success is
the need for appropriate sequencing and design of policy reforms. The types of reform that
are more likely to succeed are those related to price liberalization, trade reform and
regulatory reform while public expenditure, parastatal and financial sector reform are
higher-risk. Third, using fewer but more definite conditions along with floating tranches
and matching transfers to needs is also recommended to ensure greater certainty and



- 3 -
smoother resource flows. Fourth, almost all studies and initiatives such as the High Impact
Adjustment Lending initiative stress the importance of country ownership of the reform
programme. Fifth, the quality of the analytical base underlying the reform content is
closely correlated with the success of the program. Sixth, successful adjustment operations
pay attention ex ante to monitoring the social impact of reform.
9.   Specifically on Mozambique's adjustment programs, a Project Performance
Assessment Report by the World Bank on the programs from the ERC (1992) to the
EMRO (1999) noted that the adjustment programs were well designed and enjoyed strong
Government "ownership", but even so the privatization component did not work as
planned owing to the lack of indigenous private sector capacity. The Report added that
privatizing the state owned banks with sizeable residual government ownership ran the
danger of connected lending and insolvency, and that the lack of a "world-class prudential
supervision and legal system" invited moral hazard problems.
10.  Addressing these general and Mozambique-specific lessons from the Bank's
extensive adjustment history has been a key challenge for the design of this operation. In
section VI (paragraphs 86 and 87) there is a discussion on how the reform program takes
these lessons into account.
11. The macroeconomic framework. Mozambique had an excellent GDP growth
record of 8.3 percent annually from 1993 to 2001. This was partly due to a generally
stable macroeconomic environment, partly to "catch-up" after the end of the war, partly to
direct foreign investment, and partly to high levels of donor assistance. The growth record
was broken by the floods of March 2000 which reduced growth in that year to only 1.6
percent, but it recovered to 13.9 percent in 2001 and the outlook for 2002 is 9.0 percent.
The high GDP growth rate for 2001 was partly due to the early start of the Mozal
aluminium mega-project, which will also contribute, in the medium term, to improving the
external current account balance.
12. Inflation was very low in 1998 and 1999 (0.6 percent and 2.9 percent respectively)
but increased sharply to 11.4 percent, on a 12-month basis, at the end of 2000. This
increase was caused by scarcities induced by the floods and by lax monetary policy. The
growth rate of M2 was 35 percent in 1999 and 42 percent in 2000 - well above the
inflation rates in those years - driven partly by a relatively low bank rate. This was
accompanied by a depreciation of the exchange rate - by seven percent in 1999 and 24
percent in 2000. However, in mid-2001, monetary policy was sharply tightened by
increasing reserve requirements and by raising the bank rate. Nevertheless inflation
reached 26 percent by February 2002, falling to 19 percent by June. With further
discipline, 12-month inflation is expected to fall to single digits by the end of 2002.



-4 -
13. Exchange rate policy has been to
Real bilateral exchange rate with USS  allow market-determined rates, though
_ 150      (increase=depn)          there have been some phases of
130                                  intervention. The nominal exchange rate
,, . - _                     f   Z     weakened from Mt 11,500 per US Dollar
a 110                                  in 1997 to Mt 23,437 in July 2002. As
C4
. 90                                   for the real exchange rate, the diagram on
the left shows three distinct periods. The
x, 70,
first, from 1992 to 1995, was one of
so 5                                extreme instability, associated with high
_!   2!   !e   !R    !2     and unpredictable inflation and swift
nominal depreciation. The second, from
1996 to 2000, was one of approximate real exchange rate stability, associated with
improved growth-oriented policy, the privatization of the banks, controls on spending and
low inflation. The third, from 2001 to the present, was again one of real exchange rate
instability - the depreciation of 2001 being due to the strong dollar but also due to a loss of
confidence in the currency, arising partly from problems in the financial sector. As these
problems have been resolved, the Metical tended to strengthen in real terms during 2002.
14. Concerning trade policy, the highest tariff rate is 30 percent, due to be reduced
further to 25 percent in 2003. Rates on capital goods and intermediates are between five
and 10 percent. There will be further reductions in tariffs as the SADC protocols are
implemented. Management of customs has been contracted out, leading to increases in
efficiency of collection which have more than compensated for the decline in the tariff
rates during the 1990s. With a view to long-term fiscal sustainability, a value added tax
was introduced in 1999.
15.   On the fiscal side, a prudent fiscal stance accompanied by substantial external
assistance contributed to relatively low deficits after grants, at least until 2000 (see Table
1). Combined with a prudent monetary policy, especially in the period 1996 to 1998, and a
program of structural reforms based mainly on privatization, tax and customs reform and
trade liberalization, this resulted in low inflation, high private investment and high growth
rates. At the same time, since 1998 there has been a shift in resources in favor of health,
education and agriculture, reflecting an increasing anti-poverty focus. Education, health
and agriculture increased their combined share in total budgetary allocations from 29
percent in 1998 to 39 percent in 2001.



Table 1: Government finance and key ratios, 1998-2003
1998  1999   2000  2001  2002   2003
In constant 2000 Meticais (x 10^12):
Total expenditure and net lending b      11.8   14.4  16.7  21.3   22.2  20.9
of which: current expenditure           6.1   7.1    7.8   9.6   10.6  10.7
Total revenue                             5.7   6.5    6.9   7.9    8.7   9.3
Budget balance before grants             -5.7  -7.7   -9.5 -12.2 -12.5   -10.6
Grants plus net extemal borrowing         6.9   7.9    9.0  10.9   10.9  10.6
As a percentage of GDP:
Budget balance before grants            -10.5 -13.2 -16.1   -18.0 -17.0 -13.7
Grants                                    8.1   11.7  11.6  13.1   10.2   8.5
Budget balance after grants              -2.4   -1.5  -4.5   -4.9  -6.8   -5.2
Financing:
Netexternalborrowing'                   4.6    1.8   3.7   3.1    4.6   5.1
Net domestic financing                 -2.3   -0.3   0.8    1.9   2.1   0.1
Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance.
'Projection.
b Excludes unallocated expenditure
'Net foreign borrowing = project & non-project disbursements - cash amortization
d For the year 2000, "net external borrowing" is defined as project & non-project disbursements - cash amortization +
Banco de Mo9ambique transfer of HIPC assistance. The latter item amounted to 1. I percent of GDP.
16.   However, fiscal policy continues to suffer from high deficits before grants, which
rose from 11 percent of GDP in 1998 to 16 percent in 1999 and 18 percent in 2001.
Underpinning these results was a significant increase in expenditures, particularly since
1997, not matched by higher revenue. The expansionary trend was accentuated in 2000,
when expenditures increased by 15 percent in real terms compared to the previous year.
This increase was not due primarily to the floods, as flood reconstruction took place mostly
in 2001. Instead, it was the result of (i) the recapitalization of a former state-owned bank,
Banco Comercial de Mocambique (BCM), which could have been avoided if the state had
not maintained a significant share of ownership in the banking sector; (ii) a large increase
in the civil service wage bill; and (iii) higher social spending made possible by HIPC debt
relief. Expenditures rose in 2001 partly as a result of the combination of post-flood
reconstruction expenditures and the cost of restructuring the partially Government-owned
Banco Austral (BAu), which experienced difficulties in 2000 and 2001 and which required
a substantial Government injection in order to achieve its reprivatization'.
17. The fiscal position of 2000 and 2001 cannot be maintained and, if not corrected, will
threaten macroeconomic stability and growth. Until now, these deficit levels have only
been possible because of high levels of foreign grants. External assistance is likely to
remain high in the short run, but over time grants are likely to converge towards the
average in Sub-Saharan Africa, which is around four percent of GDP (against 13 percent of
GDP in 2001 in the case of Mozambique). Therefore, fiscal adjustment has become a
' See further detail about the recapitalization of BCM and reprivatization of Banco Austral in the section on
financial restructuring below.



- 6-
priority of Government policy. This effort will combine a relatively demanding revenue
effort with measures to restrain expenditures. Revenue increased to 13 percent of GDP in
2001 and should rise by at least two percentage points by 2005 and reach 16-17 percent by
2010. On the expenditure side, a reduction from the very high levels of 2000-2001, when
total expenditures are expected to reach 30.7 percent of GDP, to around 25.3 percent in
2005 and 24 percent in 2010, would be required. This should be accompanied by a re-
focusing of public expenditures in priority areas while improving the efficiency and
poverty-incidence of public spending.
18. Mozambique's strong performance has been supported by considerable foreign
assistance. Since 1986, the Government has received US$8 billion in external aid, or
almost US$600 million per annum - about 17 percent of GDP or 50 percent of
Government spending. These flows permitted the country to sustain consumption levels
while raising public investments in post-war reconstruction, necessary for future growth.
Continued support in the form of grants and credits, with debt relief, will be important to
enable Mozambique to meet its medium-term development objectives. Reliance on aid
flows is projected to decline gradually over the next decade, as private sector financing
increases in a context of strong economic growth. In preparation for this, the Government
will need to take measures to reduce aid dependency. Further detail on the balance of
payments and the financing program is provided in section IV (p. 18).
19. Mozambique has been implementing adjustment programs supported by the IMF's
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). The fourth review of the current PRGF
was completed in June 2002 and the arrangement was extended for a year. The major
reforms under the Fund program have been in the areas of tax policy and administration,
fiscal accountability and financial sector consolidation. Under tax policy, customs
administration and tariff policy were overhauled, and a value added tax was introduced,
which is now in full operation. A new code of fiscal incentives for investment has been
drawn up, so as to regularize incentives and reduce or eliminate discretionary exemptions.
Mozambique is creating a semi-autonomous central revenue authority, and has set up a
large taxpayers' unit. The income tax law is also being revised. Underfiscal
accountability, Mozambique has improved expenditure monitoring and tracking through
the quarterly publication of budget execution reports and the adoption of a new
classification system. In November 2001 a new Financial Management Law was
introduced which overhauls all the stages of budgeting, accounting, disbursement and
auditing, introducing double entry accounting for the first time, and replacing the present
multiplicity of Government accounts with a single account. Thefinancial sector reforms
have focused on banking supervision and commercial bank restructuring in the context of
the recapitalization processes of the two previously state-owned banks, which are covered
in more detail in the section on financial restructuring below. As regards macroeconomic
adjustment, the PRGF-supported programs have focused on promoting equitable growth,
fiscal and external consolidation, and keeping inflation low and the exchange rate stable.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY
20. The Govenment's medium-term strategy is presented in the Programa do Governo
2000-2004 and the Plano de Ac,do de Reducaio da Pobreza Absoluta (PARPAJPRSP,



- 7 -
August 20012). The overall perspective is that poverty can most quickly be reduced by
pursuing a strategy of swift economic growth, which in turn is crucially dependent on the
maintenance of peace and socio-political stability. It is anticipated in the PARPA that
GDP growth of some eight percent can be maintained. A pro-poor growth strategy
requires a policy climate which stimulates the private sector to accelerate job creation.
Specifically, the poverty reduction program is based on six priorities (or "fundamental
areas") aimed at promoting human development and creating an environment for broad-
based growth: macro-economic and financial management, good govemance, education,
health, agriculture and basic infrastructure (roads, water, energy). In addition, the strategy
covers complementary activities including policies that support sustainable growth
(transport and communications, technology and environmental management), social
welfare programs, sectoral policies that contribute to income generation (business
development, fisheries, mining, industry, tourism), and programs to reduce vulnerability to
natural disasters. These areas - "fundamental" and "complementary" - were selected
following discussions with stakeholders and because, on the basis of a diagnosis of the
determinants of poverty in Mozambique, it was determined that these have the broadest
impact on poverty.
21.   This strategy is consistent with the analyses done by the Bank, and in particular with
that of the Country Economic Memorandum, the Growth Prospects and Reform Agenda
(2001).
22.   The PARPA's description and diagnosis of poverty. The most recent household
survey (1996/7) showed that 69 percent of Mozambicans were below the poverty line.3
The poverty rate varied by province (from 62 percent in Manica to 87 percent in Sofala)
and urbanization (rural 71 percent, urban 62 percent). Simulations suggest that poverty
was reduced by seven percent between 1997 and 2001, though this number should be used
with caution. The key determinants of poverty were identified as: slow economic growth
until the early 1990s; poor educational levels, particularly among women; high
dependency rates; low agricultural productivity; lack of employment opportunities; and
poor development of basic infrastructure in rural areas. An important finding of the
preparatory studies for the PARPA is that - unlike many countries in Africa - the benefits
of state investments in health and education are progressive, hence the stress on these areas
in the priorities set by the PARPA. Nevertheless there is a long way to go in terms of
expanding the range of services. For instance, the proportion of children between six and
11 months who have not been vaccinated is significantly higher in rural than in urban
areas. As far as agriculture is concemed, the main limiting factor is not land itself but the
resources to command inputs and irrigation. The non-poor use higher levels of inputs and
irrigation. This is reflected in the low levels of marketed output: fewer than ten percent of
households, poor and non-poor, sell surpluses of maize, cassava or cotton. Projections
indicate that the target eight percent growth rate will enable the poverty rate to fall from
2IDA/SecM2001-0550, discussed by the Executive Directors on September 20, 2001. The English title was
"Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (2001-2005)".
3 The poverty line was drawn at MT 5,433 per person per day in 1997. A second household survey is being
conducted presently, the results of which will be available in 2003.



- 8 -
around 70 percent to less than 50 percent by 2010, and possibly to even lower levels. This
would be accompanied by a doubling of the consumption level of poor families in 12
years. The PARPA emphasizes that reallocations of the current Government budget can
achieve only a limited amount of poverty reduction, and that in order to dramatically
improve services in education, health and agriculture it will be necessary to increase the
tax take, which in turn requires swift GDP growth.
23. In the following pages are presented in further detail the six "priority/fundamental
areas" of the Government's PARPA, as well as the most important of the "complementary
activities". In certain of the areas, notably the financial sector, where there have been
important developments since the issuance of the PARPA, these are also described. Then
consideration is given to sequencing this large reform agenda.
A.    KEY ELEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY, FROM THE PARPA (PRSP)
Macroeconomic and Financial Management
24. The PARPA stresses that macro-economic and financial management are "central to
poverty reduction", given that they constitute a crucial prerequisite for rapid growth,
sustainability and job creation. Strengthening the macroeconomic environment will
require improving the effectiveness and transparency of public spending, increasing tax
revenues, and improving the external balance. The PARPA envisages strengthening
financial management by minimizing the risk of financial crises, promoting the
development of financial services, particularly in rural areas, and creating conditions for a
reduction in domestic interest rates.
25. To improve the effectiveness and transparency of public spending, the Government
anticipates, among others, two important directions of reform: bringing off-budget flows
onto the budget for the sake of transparency, and a public expenditure review which will
guide future allocation decisions.4 As far as budget coverage is concerned, a
Government-commissioned study in 1999 found that substantial funds are not captured by
the budget process and that many of these lack a legal basis, e.g. the Ministry of Public
Works collected US$32 million in 1998, the equivalent of 107 percent of its recurrent
budget. In addition, most donor funding fails to appear in the budget execution reports.
The flows are large, e.g. in 1998 they were between 73 percent and 188 percent of the
relevant sectoral capital budget financed by the Government. Bringing these unregistered
4 Other activities, all cited in the action plan of the Public Expenditure Management Review (viz. the 1"
phase of the PER), include: introduction of a new functional classification for expenditures during 2001/02,
enabling tracking of poverty-related expenditures; preparation of regulations for the new financial
management law of 2001; reducing the periodo complementar from three months to zero over two years;
reducing the number of Government accounts at the central bank and the commercial banks, and progressive
introduction of a single account; introduction of double-entry accounting; and initiation of the design of an
integrated financial information management system (termed SISTAFE in Mozarnbique). The World Bank
has been involved in two cycles of financial management reviews which led to new financial legislation in
1997. In the EMPSO, the intention is to focus on a small number of key items (budget coverage and a public
expenditure review). The other reforms will be addressed in future Bank operations.



- 9-
collections ("receitas pr6prias") onto the budget will take several years.5 To achieve this,
the appropriate sequencing is to obtain information from ministries about these own funds
and their use, and then to address the issues of legalization of the receitas proprias and of
the control of funds. In addition, donor flows are almost completely omitted from the
budget execution reports, though most donor-funded projects are cited in the
Government's budget. To address this issue, the appropriate sequencing is first to improve
the information flows, which will be done during the course of 2002. Next will come the
standardizing of the modalities of donor flows, and of control over funds.
26. Public expenditure review. In 2000 the Administrative Tribunal audited the 1998
budget, identifying weaknesses in the budget management system stemming from deficient
capacity, outdated methods and a "lack of rigor" in financial management. The
Government is addressing these problems by issuing budget execution reports starting in
2000; by passing a new Financial Management Law in 2001; by improving budget
classification; by completing, in 2001, a Public Expenditure Management Review
(PEMR), in collaboration with the Bank and donors, focusing on budgetary procedures,
budget execution, transparency and financial decentralization; and by completing a
Country Financial Accountability Assessment in 2001 jointly with the Bank. Next the
Government is proceeding to do a Public Expenditure Review (PER), focusing on the
efficiency of spending in education, health, agriculture, water and roads, to be completed
in 2003.
27. Tax reform for increased revenues. Mozambique is still highly dependent on aid
moneys, with some 50 percent of its budget arising from foreign sources. Government
expenditures have varied between 25 and 31 percent between 1999 and 2002, while tax
receipts are low by African standards at around 12 percent of GDP. The aid flows will
decline with the probable decline in total aid worldwide, and Mozambique will need to
prepare for this by increasing domestic revenues. The aim is to raise tax receipts to 16-17
percent of GDP by 2010. Nevertheless, owing to. a wide range of exemptions (customs,
company tax), from which large companies selectively benefit, the effective tax rate on
medium-sized enterprises is high. In response, the Govermment has approved a new code
of fiscal incentives for investment and is undertaking a comprehensive reform of income
and profit taxes, entailing drafting a new income tax law (expected 2002).
28. Financial sector restructuring. The private financial sector consists of 12 banks,
three leasing companies, and seven other financial institutions. Despite improvements in
regulation, privatization, and the entry of new banks, access to financial services remains
limited in rural areas, real interest rates and lending margins remain high (spreads were 19
percent in 1997 and 15 percent in 2000), and medium and long term finance is limited.
There is a shortage of performing assets, reducing economies of scale; this is one of the
factors explaining why, despite the large number of banks, the margins are not competed
5The main achievement of the adjustment operation EMRO (1998-99) i.r.o. receitasprdprias was the
identification of their size and type by means of the study mentioned above. In addition, modest progress
was made with the budget for 2000 by including privatization revenue and profits by public enterprises.
Whereas the 1998 budget had no explicit reference to receitas pr6prias, the 2001 budget reported "fishing
licences" and "earmarked receipts" for a total of Mt 145 billion, accounting for 1.7% of revenues.



- 10-
away. Government policies are aimed at encouraging lowered financial intermediation
costs by enhanced competition, including encouraging the development of non-bank
financial intermediaries, as well as by addressing systemic problems that constrain the
financial sector, such as the poor enforceability of contracts, lack of accounting standards,
and legal obstacles to the effective use of collateral.
29. The PARPA stresses the importance of strengthening supervision of the financial
system so as to minimize the risk of financial crises. There have been significant
developments in this area since the issuance of the PARPA in 2001, and these are
described in the following paragraphs.
30. Two commercial banks with minority Government ownership (Banco Comercial de
Mocambique (BCM) and Banco Austral) continued to experience difficulties since their
privatization in 1996/97. An evaluation by the central bank concluded that there was a
need for higher loan loss provisions and recapitalization. A round of recapitalization was
undertaken in December 1999, and followed by another larger recapitalization in early
2001, when the Government and the other shareholders of BCM recapitalized, in
proportion to their shareholdings, at a cost of US$107 million, of which the Government
share was US$53 million, obtained from a bond issue. When ownership passed from
Banco Mello to BCP, a Portuguese bank, an audit was conducted and new management put
in place. In late 2001, the Banco Internacional de Mocambique (B1M), also owned mainly
by BCP, merged with BCM, the new entity being called BIM. In late 2001 it was found
that the earlier recapitalization of BCM was incomplete, not having taken into account
losses of the bank in 2000, since audited accounts were not available at the time. The sum
of US$11 million was needed to satisfy the minimum capital ratio of eight percent. The
Government decided to contribute in line with its remaining share of 23 percent, viz.
US$2.5 million. Simultaneously the Government announced that it would dispose of its
shares at the earliest opportunity, and as a safeguard it required the establishment of a
business plan (including a debt collection plan) that showed how the low profitability of
the bank would be restored.
31. As of 2000, Banco Austral was chronically out of compliance with the prudential
requirements, and lacked suitable managerial skills and controls. The central bank
tightened its supervision of the bank. When in March 2001 the private shareholders
defaulted on their commitment to inject new capital, neglecting their fiduciary
responsibility to the depositors, the central bank seized control of the institution and
appointed an interim management team. An audit was done and assistance obtained from
the Bretton Woods institutions to evaluate the options of reprivatization and closure. It
was concluded that the costs of recapitalization to the Government would be about US$101
million, while the costs of closure would be slightly higher. The Government decided to
pursue the course of recapitalization and reprivatization, so as to preserve competition.
The sale was completed in December 2001 in all respects but for a final joint review of the
portfolio. The costs of the recapitalization were covered by treasury bills and bonds, some
of the latter running to three years so as to help ensure a long-term commitment on the part
of the new purchaser.
32. Steps are being taken to collect on the bad loan portfolio, with some Mt 102 billion
(about US$4 million) having been collected between April and December 2001, of a total



- 11 -
bad loan portfolio of about Mt 1,447 billion (roughly US$60 million). BAu published the
names of its debtors in the newspapers. A debt collection plan was worked out, in which
the new owners of Banco Austral took the bulk of the responsibility for debt collection,6
while the Government took over loans which had been fully provisioned for, with the
intention of using, inter alia, expeditive measures including the execu,cesfiscais. The
results of this debt collection strategy will be published in the quarterly budget execution
reports.
33. The authorities intend to prevent poor management of commercial banks in the
future, and to facilitate the pursuit of fraudulent managers and shareholders. With these
ends in mind, the authorities will appoint a specialist advisory group to assess, in respect of
both former BCM and BAu, the deficiencies in the system of checks and balances, and the
causes of the extensive risk management failures, and if wrongdoing is found, will report it
to the Attomey-General. The reports will be used to improve financial sector regulations
and supervision, and to improve corporate governance and risk management in the
financial sector.
34.  It will be essential to avert future costly financial sector problems by creating an
environment conducive to efficient financial intermediation. A key element will be the
withdrawal of the Government from banking ownership so as to sharpen the incentives of
the private owners for improved management. The Government announced in March 2001
saying that it wished to reduce its shareholdings in the banking sector to zero, noting that
investment in banks is not an effective means of reducing poverty.
35.  Substantial government shareholdings in ailing banks place an additional political
and moral burden on governments. Even in the absence of explicit govenmmental
guarantees for deposits, the Government could not escape responsibility for their deposit
obligations; whereas the failure of wholly owned private banks would not have financial
consequences for Mozambican taxpayers. Hence elimination of govenmment shareholdings
in Mozambican banks will provide additional room for maneuver in the event of bank
failure in the future. In addition, disengagement from shareholding by the Government
would help avoid politically influenced credit decisions in the financial sector. Instead, the
Government's role would concentrate on bank supervision, the enforcement of accounting
and auditing standards, and the provision of information.
36. Mozambique has a sound legal and regulatory structure for financial sector
supervision, and also has skilled technical staff to monitor developments in the sector. The
occurrence of large losses in two banks, despite the sound regulatory structure, points to a
lack of ability of the central bank to take independent enforcement decisions. Hence the
public profile and accountability of banking supervision has been strengthened by the
publication, in early 2002, of guidelines specifying that the bank supervision department
will be the authority and accountable party in the central bank, tasked with enforcement of
banking law. Arrangements are in hand to provide the central bank with assistance in
training in supervision, and in particular with the use of the bank's IT system for
6 Both BAu and BIM are pursuing the debtors through the legal process but are naking slow progress due to
the incapacity of the judiciary. The Government needs to play the role of facilitating the legal recourse of
banks to borrowers.



- 12-
supervision purposes. Furthermore, the authorities have strengthened the banking
supervision authorities by indicating that when applications are made for new financial
institutions, only applications which are supported by the Banco de Mocambique will be
forwarded to the Minister of Finance for approval. In addition, non-compliant commercial
banks will be required to sign, within 30 days of non-compliance, a memorandum of
understanding with the supervisors containing an action plan to ensure that the non-
compliance with capital adequacy and other prudential requirements be rectified within six
months.
37. Other initiatives include the following.7 The minimum capital requirements for
operating a bank have been raised from approximately US$800,000 to about US$2.8
million, and the authorities intend to continue to adjust the level in the light of macro and
market conditions. This measure will make for a healthier banking system in the future as
banks will have the capital necessary to provide some of the infrastructure required to
establish and maintain a bank in the Mozambican environment. The banks have set up a
credit risk service pooling information about creditors so that bad debts are immediately
known by all potential lenders; as of mid-2001, some 98 percent of loans are registered in
this way. In 2001 the authorities issued instructions for financial institutions to follow
international accounting and auditing standards (as promulgated by the International
Accounting Standards Board and the International Federation of Accountants respectively).
These will be consistently enforced. It will be essential to ensure that two state-controlled
nonbank financial institutions be placed on a sound footing: the Instituto Nacional de
Seguranca Social (INSS) and the state controlled insurance company, Empresa
Mocambicana de Seguros (EMOSE). An actuarial valuation will be done for the former
and a comprehensive audit for the latter. This key information will be needed in order to
determine appropriate measures, if any.
Good Governance
38.   The PARPA stressed the need for good governance as a condition for poverty
reduction, and notes the existence of corruption among public sector workers. It points to
the Africa Competitiveness Report 2000 which records that businesspeople view the
Mozambique system as incapable of enforcing contracts or of preventing delays in the
resolution of commercial disputes, and that the legal code is susceptible to multiple
interpretation. The Attomey-General, in a widely-publicized speech to Parliament on
March 6, 2002, pointed to incompetence, corruption and abuse of power in the police, the
public prosecution agency, in civil jurisdiction and in the bodies responsible for the pursuit
of violent crime. The inadequate performance of the judicial system - stemming from
antiquated laws and procedures, deficient management, poorly trained and motivated
personnel, and corruption - compromises the reliability of contract enforcement and makes
it difficult for banks to execute against collateral. The associated risks raise the cost of
doing business, and hinder commercial activity and new investment.
7 For some part of 2001, BCM and BIM, both owned primarily by BCP, merged their operations, but without
a formal merger. In order to prevent regulatory arbitrage, the central bank issued regulations for consolidated
supervision. Following the formal merger, these will not be applied to BIM but will be applicable in any
other cases where two institutions are under common ownership.



- 13 -
39. In response to this, the Government has identified governance as one of the six
"fundamental areas" for the reduction of poverty. It has announced a program of judicial
and legal reform that includes raising the capacity and efficiency of the court system;
strengthening the Office of the Attorney-General and the General Inspectorate of Finance
so as to combat corruption more effectively; and anti-corruption campaigns. Among the
reform initiatives under way are the following: (i) a draft strategic integrated plan of
judicial and legal reform was completed in March 2002, together with a strategic plan for
the Ministry of Justice, while strategic plans for the Supreme Court, the Attorney-
General's Office and the Administrative Court will be completed by September 2002; (ii) a
money laundering law was passed by Parliament in 2001; (iii) the new Commercial Code
was submitted to the sitting of the National Assembly in the first quarter of 2002 and (iv)
in March 2002 the Notarial Code was revised so as to permit recognition of legal
documents in addition to the system of handwritten transcription in the Livro de Notas.
Education, Health and Agriculture
40. As stressed by the PARPA/PRSP and the Programa do Governo, the Government is
committed to a comprehensive program of investing in human capital, by improving
education, particularly of girls and women, extending primary schooling to all, increasing
access to tertiary education, and developing vocational and technical training. It is also
committed to improving health services - through primary health care and curtailing the
spread of HIV/AIDS and malaria. There exist sector-wide investment programs in
education and health, each supported by a national sectoral strategy. The Government has
also launched a National Strategic Plan for fighting HIVtAIDS. Given that there are no
major outstanding policy issues, and since these programs are well described in the
PARPA/PRSP, the information is not repeated here. In the context of this adjustment
program, the World Bank is assisting the Government with a study of the economic effects
of HIV/AIDS.
41. Rural areas encompass the majority of the country's population (around 71 percent),
and the highest prevalence of poverty is in the rural areas. Hence agriculture and rural
development have a key role in the strategy for poverty reduction and rapid economic
growth. The PARPA envisages, on the basis of past performance, a relatively optimistic
growth rate of some eight percent for the agricultural sector. The strategy focuses on
facilitating rural trade, promoting investments in productivity, and improving access to
land. To this end, the Government has established a sector-wide investment program in
agriculture (PRO-AGRI), and is improving agricultural extension through contracting out
and is strengthening agricultural research through the formation of a semi-autonomous
research institution.
42. Property rights are ill defined in Mozambique, and the framework for exchanging
land use rights is rigid and unclear, constraining smallholder and large-scale production,
business creation, and the growth of rural financial markets. There was a backlog of over
10,000 applications for land use permits as of late 1999. The PARPA calls for
simplification of the process of land adjudication, and strengthening of the institutions
granting land concessions; it also calls for measures to improve the "business
environment". Since the issuance of the PARPA there has been widespread discussion in
Mozambique about further modernization of land access arrangements - for neither the



- 14-
new land law of 1997 nor the new regulations of 1999 created a market in land use rights;
furthermore, there is serious discussion within Government of the possibility of
legalization and facilitation of trade of rights of land use. Much could be achieved within
the existing legal framework through facilitating the exchange of buildings and
improvements.
Basic Infrastructure
43. The PARPA notes that infrastructure is an essential factor for the rapid expansion of
economic activity and thus for the reduction of poverty. Water and energy are essential
for agro-industrial activities, while and transport and communications infrastructure
(including railways, roads, ports, coastal shipping, postal services), are vital for the
agricultural sector and for increasing productivity. There is a sector-wide investment
program in roads, supported by a national sectoral strategy. Given that there are no major
outstanding policy issues, and since these programs are well described in the
PARPA/PRSP, the informnation is not repeated here.
44. As far as energy policy is concerned, the PARPA notes that there is a sound
regulatory framework in place, based on the energy strategy passed by Cabinet in October
2000. The objectives of the energy program are to expand the population's access to
energy sources, and in particular to electricity, and promoting private sector participation
in the area of energy.
45. Since the issuance of the PARPA, important reforms have been undertaken in the
area of petroleum. Some background to these is needed. A 1997 law demonopolized
petroleum product imports and retail distribution, and set retail pricing formulas.
Maximum retail prices are set by the Government, allowing for regional differentials for
transport costs. The prices are adjusted whenever price of the imported product changes
by more than three percent. Due to economies of scale in importation in Mozambique's
small market, a joint tendering system is run by the eight wholesalers/retailers, which
include the Government-owned PETROMOC. Petroleum taxes - four percent on
kerosene, 54 percent on diesel, 60 percent on gasoline - are progressive.
46. The pending agenda includes restructuring of PETROMOC. The energy strategy of
October 2000 set the goal of strengthening PETROMOC via bringing in a strategic partner.
Owing to the entry of several other petroleum distributors, the retail share of PETROMOC
fell from 83 percent in 1998 to 40 percent in 2001. It needs a strategic partner to muster
the capital required for mounting a full range of services. Privatization could forestall
considerable losses in net worth and prevent policy reversals. In 2001 the Government
appointed the International Finance Corporation (IFC) as its investment adviser for the
restructuring and privatization. A privatization options study will be completed by mid-
2002. Following a decision on the mode of privatization, the tender documents will be
issued.
"Complementary Activities"
47.   The PARPA envisages a number of "complementary activities" including policies
that support sustainable growth (transport and communications, technology and



- 15 -
environment), social welfare programs, sectoral policies (business development, fisheries,
mining, industry, tourism), and programs to reduce vulnerability to natural disasters. In the
following paragraphs, certain of the key complementary areas are discussed (telecoms, air
transport, cabotage, business development and fisheries) on account of their close links
with the overall adjustment process.
48. Telecommunications reform. Telephone density in Mozambique, at 0.5 fixed main
lines per 100 inhabitants, is low by sub-Saharan standards. Telephone coverage is uneven:
only one percent of telephone lines are in rural areas with 70 percent of the population.
The high revenue earned per line by the incumbent fixed-cum-cellular operator
Telecomunicag6es de Mo9ambique (TDM) reflects high mobile and intemational tariffs
coupled with low investment in network extension. New competitive private sector entry
in cellular telephony would increase coverage and may reduce prices. Investment in
network build out and quality of service would rise if the fixed-line incumbent obtained a
strategic partner with financial resources and know-how. Hence the PARPA calls for the
development of a competitive telecoms sector by restructuring TDM, attracting private
capital and liberalizing the operation of cell phones.
49. The Government is liberalizing the sector through awarding a mobile license to a
private operator in addition to TDM, with permission to build long distance infrastructure.
It is currently restructuring TDM to prepare it for competition and privatization. The
Ministry has prepared a new sector policy, and has amended the law terminating TDM's
monopoly on international telephony; it is finalizing certain key regulations; and is
strengthening the capacity of the telecommunications regulator (INCM). A new pro-
competition telecoms law will be submitted to the National Assembly in 2002. The World
Bank is providing technical assistance for these processes. An environmental pre-audit of
TDM has been done and made available in the country.
50. Air transport. The air transport system is not yet efficient enough to meet booming
tourist demand and facilitate domestic and regional market integration. Air transport is
costly, limited in frequency and uneven in coverage. There is a risk of regional traffic
being diverted to other regional airports. Hence the PARPA refers to transport and
communications as "critical complementary areas" (para. 203) and calls for the
establishment of the National Civil Aviation Institute.8 To address current deficiencies in
air transport, the Government prepared a new air transport policy, liberalizing non-
scheduled services in international and domestic markets and scheduled services in
domestic markets. On international segments, liberalization will be implemented through
multidesignation of carriers. In mid-2002 the policy was formally adopted by Cabinet,
thereby enacting this liberalization. As competition increases in the future, improvements
of service and tariff reductions can be expected.
51.  To meet expected increases in traffic and sustain competition from regional airports,
the Government has adopted a policy of concessioning the major airports. It is hoped that
this will improve the quality of service and reduce landing charges, which would
ultimately be reflected in improved connections and lower fares, provided there is
8 The reformns under way in air transport are not covered in detail in the PARPA.



- 16-
competition. Thus far, bidding is under way for the concessioning of the Maputo airport.
During 2002, the Government plans to strengthen the capacity of the regulatory agency,
and, in order to strengthen the incumbent Linhas Aereas de Mocambique (LAM), the
Government will invite a strategic partner to take an important role in the company.
52. Coastal shipping/cabotage. Given Mozambique's 2,470 kIn of coastline, its
navigable rivers, and its dependence upon agricultural exports, the lack of competition in
cabotage and the consequent high costs are constraining growth. Since liberalization of the
sector in 1996/97 there have been two main firms, and the annual volumes of traffic rose
accordingly. Some private sector operators insist, however, that in their areas there is no
effective competition. Hence the PARPA's objective is to adopt a liberalization package to
increase private entry. This could be obtained by facilitating the issuance of licenses to
domestically registered firms or by permitting foreign-licensed ships, e.g. from Tanzania
and other countries, to operate cabotage services.
53. Business development. The PARPA identifies the private sector as the prime
source ofjob creation. To this end, it calls for simplifying procedures and regulations (e.g.
business licensing), and for reducing the direct interventions of the state, in favor of the
state's role as regulator.
54. Labor law reform is needed because a 1999 decree set complicated requirements for
hiring high-level skills for short periods. Private sector discussions with Government have
led to some simplification in 2002, but more remains to be done. Another challenge to
employment growth is the 1998 labor law which imposed prohibitively high costs of
dismissals, which discourages firms from offering new permanent positions. In light of
difficulties such as these, the PARPA (para. 209) calls for updating labor legislation,
"eliminating those aspects which unnecessarily increase labour costs and create difficulties
in terms of flexibility of the labour market".
55. Environmental management and fisheries. The PARPA notes that poverty
reduction and rapid growth must be pursued on a sustainable long-term basis. To achieve
this, wide participation by society is needed - including local communities, public bodies
and the private sector. The PARPA policy is to improve the regulations, do capacity
building (particularly of local communities), and improve environmental protection and
inspection measures.
56. Fisheries, the country's prime source of exports, have stagnated. The growth of
fisheries exports was 9.1 percent annually 1987-95, but fell to 0.7 percent in 1996-99,
whereas total exports grew at 9.7 percent annually in 1996-99. An increased catch in 2000
does not alter the secular trend. One reason for the stagnation is over-fishing of shrimps.
According to the Ministry of Fisheries, total "fishing hours" should be reduced from
300,000 per year to 180,000. The Government is seeking to reduce the total by limiting
the number of quotas, though the system for awarding quotas is unclear. The
overexploitation is driven by low quota fees of 2.5 percent of the international shrimp
price. The PARPA emphasizes that environmental considerations require "strict control of
the process of granting licenses". Hence reform is needed. One solution would be to make
quotas tradable. A NORAD-funded study, completed in 2002, recommends a move away
from the Total Allowable Catch regulation to a combination of closed seasons and a



- 17-
capacity and effort control. However, further studies may be needed to assess the degree
of over-exploitation and to propose concrete measures which will be adopted during 2002-
04.
B. A PROGRAMMATIC APPROACH
57. Since the reform program is demanding of the time of senior officials, it will require
a staged approach. The immediate issue to be solved is thefinancial sector. This is also
the factor that has generated the need for financial assistance on the Government's part.
Unless this is done, the gains of sharply diminished inflation of 1996/97 could be lost.
Hence this is likely to occupy the Government's attention during the period up to late
2002.
58. It is anticipated that, up to 2002 Q4, the first slice of the reform agenda will consist
of the following. Telecommunications will be liberalized through the sale of a new cellular
license with permission to build their own national long distance infrastructure. Studies
will be done and decisions taken in the area of electricity so as to facilitate the entry of
private sector generators and distributors during the course of 2003. Also, air transport
will be liberalized.
59. Also during 2002, the Government intends to make improvements in public
expenditure management, notably by obtaining information on donor-funded expenditures
and other "off-budget "flows so that they can be incorporated in the 2003 budget and the
budget execution reports; this will help improve resource allocation decision making in the
future. Arbitrary tax exemptions will be reduced in number and scope, setting the stage for
a steady rise in the revenue-to-GDP ratio from 12 percent to 16-17 percent by 2010.
During 2002-3 the Government will complete a public expenditure review in collaboration
with the Bank and donors, which will lead to a better focus on poverty reduction in the five
sectors involved (see para. 26).
60. In 2003, after this Credit has run its course, it is anticipated that the Government will
address the remaining pending agenda. The Government will continue the work already
begun in the area of land reform. If this initiative were to include marketability of urban
land use rights, it would complement the work done on the financial sector in 2001-2 as
collateralization of land would facilitate increases in the banks' lending base. The
Government is discussing labor law reform with the business community presently; a
compromise arrangement is expected in 2002 or 2003. The PARPA objective of updating
labor legislation (as in the PARPA operational matrix) and introducing more labor market
flexibility will be among the tasks to be addressed. The year 2003 will also see the
completion of the privatization of the petroleum wholesaler/retailer PETROMOC and the
telecommunications incumbent TDM.
61. Concerning public management, the Government intends to pursue reforms
respecting budget coverage during 2003: establishing the legal basis of the receitas
pr6prias, determining their location of control, and including further tranches of donor
financing on the budget. The recommendations of the Public Expenditure Management
Review and the Country Financial Accountability Assessment with regard to
accountability and monitoring will be implemented.



- 18-
62. In 2003 the Government will make bold moves to improve the infrastructure of the
country in order to facilitate business and encourage foreign investment. It will issue the
first electricity concessions for private generators and distributors. The privatization of
Linhas Aereas de Mocambique will start. On the basis of the study on shipping tariffs
currently under way, further reforms will be adopted in coastal shipping, providing for a
further opening to competition. Another area of possible reform would be the preparation
for an environmentally and socially sensitive approach to the problem of over-fishing.
63. Comprehensive legal and judicial reform started in 2002 with the issuance of a draft
strategic integrated plan for legal and judicial reform. Once completed, the plan will guide
institutional change and skills upgrading in the Ministry of Justice and the other arms of
the judicial system, and guide progress towards further legal changes. These changes,
which are likely to take several years, will consolidate the gains made through financial
sector reform in 2001-2 and land law reform in 2003.
64. Bank assistance and preparation for the Poverty Reduction Support Credit.
The present operation will encompass the first slice of this reform program, viz. up to the
end of 2002. Two key items of fiduciary work have recently been done, complete with
action plans: the Public Expenditure Management Review (PEMR) and the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA). A third crucial item is under way, namely a
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR). Provided this is completed, the
Government adheres to the three action plans, IDA will be able to provide programmatic
support to Mozambique through a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) in FY04.
The most important aspects of the PEMR action plan, during 2002 and 2003, are the
cleanup of Government accounts with the central bank and commercial banks, and
extension of budget coverage (reporting on donor-funded expenditures, inclusion of
receitaspr6prias in the budget). The most salient aspects of the CFAA action plan, during
2002 and 2003, are the implementation of the Public Finance Management Law, including
the timely production of the General State Accounts (Contas Gerais do Estado), and the
formal establishment of the accountancy profession (including the preparation of a
Strategic Development Plan to guide its future development). The key points
recommended by the draft CPAR are the drafting of new procurement regulations for
goods, works and services, and the establishment of a procurement policy directorate.
IV. FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS AND JUSTIFICATION FOR THE CREDIT
65. The financing gap. As noted above, the Government's program is fully funded on
both the budgetary side and the balance of payments side, as long as the funds from this
operation, the EMPSO, are included. The balance of payments situation is presented in
Table 2. The total financing requirement, including the current account deficit and
amortization, comes to some US$1,769 million in 2002 and US$1,619 million in 2003.
The large increase from US$1,298 million in 2001 is due to a sharp increase in the current
account deficit from US$850 million in 2001 to US$1,560 million in 2002. These
increases are in turn due to a massive increase in imports from US$1.1 billion in 2001 to
US$1.8 billion in 2002 and an expected US$1.7 billion in 2003 arising from the Mozal II
mega-project which will be in the construction stage.



- 19-
66. The gap is financed through direct investment, grants, foreign borrowing and debt
relief in large part. The contribution of direct foreign investment rises from US$183
million in 2001 to US$644 million in 2002 and US$475 million in 2003, the increase being
due mainly to the mega-project referred to above. Grants are projected to remain at about
the same level in 2001, 2002 and 2003, about US$450 million. Public foreign borrowing
amounts to US$115 million in 2001, US$132 million in 2002 and US$110 million in 2003
(including IDA project loans). The major increase in the loans category is private
borrowing which rises from US$106 million in 2001 to US$493 million in 2002 and
US$524 million in 2003, again associated with the mega-project. Finally, debt relief, most
arising from the HIPC, amounts to US$424 million in 2001, US$415 million in 2002 and
US$403 million in 20039. This leaves a gap of about US$60 million in both 2002 and
2003, which it is envisaged will be filled by the first and second tranches of the EMPSO,
respectively.
Table 2: Balance of payments, 2000 to 2004
indicator                                  2000      2001     2002     2003      2004
Total fmancing requirements                   1696     1298      1769     1619      975
Current account deficit (excl. grants)        1042      850      1560     1384      701
of which: exports (f.o.b.)                   364      704      711       759     1630
of which:imports(c.i.f.)                    1162     1117      1769     1738     1644
Amortization (incl. IMF)                       373      420       141      180      183
Changes in reserves excl. IMF (incr. +)        225      -13        28       55       92
Other Outflows                                  57       41        39        0        C
Total identified fmancing                     1247      872      1709     1619      975
Direct foreign investment                      139      183       644      475      206
Grants                                         564      469      440       450      428
Loans                                          544      220       625      635      341
Official creditors                           222       115      132       110      160
of which: IDA                              98        51       72       81       146
of which: IMF                              60        11       21       11         C
Commercial                                    322      106      493       524      181
Debt relief                                    449      425         0        0         0
Remaining gap. filled by EMPSO                   0        0        60       60         0
Source: Bank of Mozambique, IMF and staff estimates.
Following the Extended HIPC operation, debt relief is reflected by reporting actual interest and
arnortization rather than interest and amortization due, resulting, in the table, in a reduction in these items
roughly equivalent to the debt relief reported for the period up to 2001. See footnote 9.
67. A summary of the Government's budget and financing appears in Table 3 (for
historical information, and percentages of GDP, refer to Table 1 and Annex 4). The
overall deficit before grants is Mt 16 trillion in 2002 and Mt 14 trillion in 2003. Over half
of this (Mt 10 trillion and Mt 11 trillion respectively) is covered by grants. Further
contributions to the budget come from HIPC assistance, domestic financing, project loans,
9 After 2001, debt relief is no longer shown "below the line". Instead, interest and amortization above the
line are shown as due after bilateral debt relief, and multilateral debt relief is shown as part of overall
multilateral financing.



- 20 -
and finally non-project loans in which IDA bulks large: the EMPSO is responsible for Mt
1,473 billion in 2002 and Mt 1,587 billion in 2003.
68. The EMPSO financing is not earmarked and will contribute to the overall
Government program, as well as support the adoption of policies making for
macroeconomic stability, growth and poverty reduction. The EMPSO will enable a
continued shift of expenditures towards poverty reducing measures as outlined in the
PARPA, and to maintain infrastructure expenditures that underpin economic growth. This,
then, provides the main rationale for the EMPSO. The credit will also help to avoid
domestic financing at a time when extraordinary demands are placed upon the fiscus
arising from the restructuring of two of the banks, as explained above.
Table 3: Government finance and the EMPSO contribution, 2001-04
2001     2002      2003     2004
In current billions of Meticais:
Total revenue                                         9,616   12,406    14,541   18,072
Total expenditure                                    23,221   28,460    28,752   32,353
Overall balance before grants                       -13,279   -16,054  -14,211  -14,281
Grants                                                9,637    9,656    10,685   10,432
Overall balance after grants                         -3,642    -6,398   -3,526   -3,849
Central bank transfer of HIPC assistance by multilaterals incl.  513  453  344     361
IMF
Net external borrowing                                1,750    3,912     3,725    3,866
Disbursements                                       2,203    4,271     4,233    4,381
Project                                           1,032    2,208     2,780    2,878
Non-project                                       1,171    2,063     1,452    1,503
IDA, through the EMPSO                              -     1,473    1,587        -
other                                           1,171      591     -135     1,503
Cash amortization                                    -453      359      508     -515
Net domestic financing                                1,379    2,032     -542      -378
Overall balance                                           0        0        0        0
Memorandum items:
Exchange rate (Mt / US$)                           20,707   24,546    26,455   27,381
GDP (Mt trillions)                                   74.7     95.2     106.4    125.2
Budget deficit before grants, as a percentage of GDP (%)  -17.8  -16.9  -13.4   -11.4
Budget deficit after grants, as a percentage of GDP (%)  -4.9  -6.7     -3.3     -3.1
69. Relationship with the Country Assistance Strategyl' (CAS). The joint IDA/IFC
CAS outlines a broadly based strategy of private sector promotion, improvement of public
management, and increasing human capabilities. The Bank undertakes to support private
sector development through liberalization of, and improved regulatory frameworks in, the
telecommunications, transport and energy sectors; simplifying the regulatory framework
for business, including the labor market; exposing local entrepreneurs to best-practice
business techniques; upgrading infrastructure (telecommunications, energy, railways,
roads, water); promoting agribusiness and tourism; and supporting increased access to
higher education and vocational training. Conceming the financial sector, the CAS
' IDA/R2000-76[IFC/R2000-80], discussed by the Board on June 1, 2000.



-21-
mentions the need for improved supervision of the financial sector for the sake of stability,
and the removal of legal obstacles to the effective use of collateral (viz. land legislation).
In the area of public management, the Bank is committed to assisting the Government with
comprehensive public sector reform, decentralization and legal reform. The CAS also
emphasizes the need for a public expenditure review, and notes avenues for technical
assistance for improved fiscal management (accounting, executing expenditures,
developing consolidated accounts, and reforming the pension system). In the area of
human capabilities, the Bank intends to assist the Government in the fight against
HIV/AIDS, in improving education and health, and in social protection. In the next section
on policy reforms, it will be seen that the reforms to be supported under the adjustment
operation are all in line with the Country Assistance Strategy.
70.  The strategy of the IFC in Mozambique. The IFC provides advisory services and
financing in various sectors, with the emphasis on infrastructure, large scale resource
development projects, and'small and medium enterprises (SME). The portfolio is
dominated by Mozal Aluminium, with other investments in the Polana Hotel, Grupo Banco
de Investimentos de Mocambique, Maragra Sugar and Agrimo. In 2002 the IFC liquidated
its 25 percent holding in BIM. The IFC's SME investments are mainly in agribusiness
(e.g. fisheries) and tourism, as well as manufacturing firms such as Cabo Caju. The IFC is
the investment adviser for the privatization of PETROMOC (see para. 46). The IFC's
Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) redid the "red tape analysis" in 2001. In the
pipeline are projects in equity in leasing and microfinance institutions, projects associated
with the transport corridors, industrial park development in Maputo and SME investments
in agribusiness, tourism, services and manufacturing.
71.  The strategy of MIGA in Mozambique is to strengthen the private sector by
supporting projects with high development impact and those investment intermediaries
charged with attracting foreign direct investment. The portfolio consists of five guarantee
contracts in manufacturing, tourism and infrastructure (net exposure US$128 million).
V. POLICY REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROPOSED CREDIT
72. The proposed credit will support the first slice (up to 2002 Q4) of the medium term
reform program described above. It will deepen reforms in two directions: by improving
public sector management and by implementing reforms to promote private sector
development. These areas have been the dual foci of previous adjustment credits. The
credit does not attempt to be universal. It is a judicious selection of a subset of key
aspects of the Government's PARPA/PRSP program described in the previous sections.
The following paragraphs describe the overall reforms and summarize the second tranche
conditions; the detailed split of these actions between the first and the second tranche is
given in Annex 1, the policy and processing matrix.



- 22 -
Public Sector Management Reforms"]
73. Budget coverage. In the next year, the focus will be on information flows; working
out the legal basis of the various ministerial own receipts (receitas pr6prias and
standardizing the modalities of donor flows will be addressed subsequently'2 This
extension of budget coverage is a prerequisite for Mozambique to be able to proceed to a
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit in FY2004.13 The reforms include the following. (a)
Full information on all ministerial own receipts (receitaspr6prias) will be obtained from
the ministries14 and reflected in the estimates for the 2003 budget. (b) Donor-funded
expenditures, by functional classification, are now reflected in the quarterly budget
execution reports, starting in 2002 Q1, using data obtained from the sectoral ministries.15
74. Public expenditure review. The Public Expenditure Management Review (PEMR),
focusing on budgetary procedures, budget execution, transparency and financial
decentralization, was completed, in collaborative work with the World Bank, during 2001.
The Government is considering options for disseminating it - possibly in abbreviated and
simplified form - to the public and to Parliament.
75.   Tax reform is crucial to the success of the medium-term macroeconomic program.
In this an important element is the reworking of the code of fiscal incentives for
investment. It had been pointed out in the paper Mozambique: Growth Prospects and
Reforn Agenda that the system of incentives resulted in effective tax rates being high for
small and medium-sized firms. In the context of the discussions with the IMF on the
PRGF, the code of fiscal incentives was revised and approved by Cabinet during 2002.
The IMF is also engaging the Government on other aspects of tax reformn, and is providing
technical assistance.
Reforms for Private Sector Development
76. Financial sector. The following actions are included in this Credit: (a) issuance and
enforcement of international accounting and auditing standards for the financial sector, as
" Other public sector management reforms include, as mentioned above, the items arising from the action
plans of the CFAA and the CPAR, as well as the Public Sector Reform Program (PSR) which is to be
appraised in June 2002.
12 Care will be taken concerning the incentives to collect: the objective will be to have all public monies
fully reflected in the budgets and budget execution reports, but not to take the receitas proprias (many of
which are user charges) out of the hands of the relevant ministries.
13 See the Operational Memorandum, "Interim Guidelines for Poverty Reduction Support Credits", May 31,
2001.
14 This represents progress beyond the achievements of the last adjustment operation, the EMRO, in two
senses. (i) Under the EMRO a study was done by consultants, using a sample of a few ministries and
provinces. Whereas under the EMPSO all ministries are required to submit their own official data on these
flows. (ii) Under the EMRO the intention was identification only. Under the EMPSO these funds are to be
placed on the budget and reported in the budget execution reports.
15 In addition, quarterly data on disbursements will be obtained from the donors. This will not be an attempt
to control donor funds, but only to obtain the data necessary for planning and transparency.



- 23 -
promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board and the International
Federation of Accountants respectively (done by circular, Dec. 2001); (b) strengthening of
banking supervision through a notice requiring any bank not in compliance with the
regulatory capital requirements to agree with the supervisor, within 30 days, on a plan of
action, and that rectification will occur in less than six months (done by aviso, March
2002); (c) a requirement that accounting information sent monthly by commercial banks to
the banking supervisor be signed by the chief financial officer (done by circular, April
2002); (d) enforcement of full compliance of all banks with all existing prudential rules
and regulations, by issuing letters specifying corrective measures to all non-compliant
banks; (e) reprivatization of Banco Austral (done Jan. 2002); (f) aggressive collection of
the bad debt of Banco Austral (for which a plan was established in March 2002); (g) an
assessment by a specialist advisory group of the deficiencies in the system of checks and
balances of Banco Austral and BIM, and the causes of the extensive risk management
failures (in the event wrongdoing is found, this will be reported to the Attorney-General);
(h) a public commitment by the Government of its intention to eventually reduce to zero its
ownership in the banks, and in particular BIM (done in 2001); (i) an actuarial valuation of
the national social security fund, the Instituto Nacional de Seguranca Social (INSS) and an
audit of Empresa Mocambicana de Seguros (EMOSE, the national insurance firm); and (j)
measures to limit further losses by BIM, including the establishment of a business plan
(including a monitorable debt collection plan) showing how its profitability will be
improved; an undertaking that the Government will in the future not exercise its right to
vote for non-executive directors on the board of BIM, but will permit the remaining
shareholders to make these appointments; and an undertaking that the Government will not
contribute to any further recapitalization of BIM in the event this is requested (done by
July 2002). Most of these actions had been completed by mid-2002 (see the matrix in
Annex 1 for details on timing).
77.  Telecommunications reform. The key elements already completed are the new
sector policy and an amendment to the telecommunications law terminating TDM's
monopoly on international access. To come are the submission to Parliament of a pro-
competition telecommunications law, the issuance of mobile licenses to TDM and a new
cellular operator (with permission to build national long distance transmission networks),
and the issuance of the information memorandum for the sale of a controlling share in
TDM6, 17
78. Air transportation. The key elements already completed are the approval by
Cabinet of an air transport policy incorporating liberalization of non-regular services and
of regular services under free licensing domestically and under multidesignation on
intemational segrnents; strengthening of the regulatory agency; and new statutes creating
the regulatory agency and defining its role in technical and economic oversight of the
16 Total employment of TDM will rise with the increased demand for the services stemming from the
liberalization of mobile telephony. The skill mix, however, will change. The Government accepts the
financial responsibility for any needed layoffs prior to privatization. By virtue of the 1998 labor law,
emnployees are entitled to three months of remuneration for every two year period of service.
17 Assistance is being provided by the Communications Sector Reform Project which was approved by the
World Bank Board in November 2001.



- 24 -
sector; and the issuance of bids calling for private participation in the Maputo Airport
concession. To come are the adoption of a complete set of regulations to enact the air
transport liberalization and remove barriers to free licensing of carriers and aircraft; and
the issuance of a concession to a private consortium for Maputo Intemational Airport.
Privatization of LAM will commence in the latter half of 2002 with the appointment of
investment advisers. 18
79. Petroleum policy and PETROMOC. An environmental pre-audit has been
completed and made available in the country. The privatization options study will be
completed in 2002 and following this Cabinet will approve the mode of privatization.
Issuance of the tender documents will follow later.
80. Legal and judicial reform. Legal and judicial reform is highly process-oriented and
long-term. The quick-disbursing EMPSO is suited for the first major element in the reform
program, namely the completion of a strategic plan of legal and judicial reform, which is
now available in draft. The plan will be completed, incorporating the strategic plans of the
four branches (Ministry of Justice, Attorney-General, Supreme Court and Administrative
Court) by September 2002. As far as implementation of the reform program is concemed,
the Commercial Code is presently being debated in Parliament. In addition, the Ministry
of Justice has altered the Notarial Code so as to permit recognition of legal documents in
addition to the system of transcription in handwriting in the Livro de Notas, and will
continue to implement a program of capacity building in the notarial division.
81. Summary of second tranche conditions. To summarize, the second tranche
conditions are to:
(a)  report donor-funded expenditures as statistical annexes in the budget execution
reports, starting with the first quarter of calendar 2002;
(b)  incorporate estimates of all known ministerial own receipts ("receitas pr6prias") in
the 2003 budget;
(c)  adopt officially the finalized Strategic Integrated Plan for the Legal and Judicial
Sector 2002-2006;
(d)  complete an assessment of the deficiencies in the system of checks and balances of
BIM, and the causes of the extensive risk management failures, and, in the event
wrongdoing is found, report it to the Attorney-General;
(e)  enforce full compliance of all banks with all existing prudential rules and
regulations, by specifying corrective measures to all non-compliant banks;
(f) complete an independent audit of the 2001 accounts of EMOSE, including an
opinion on mathematical reserves, valuation of real estate holdings and other fixed assets,
la As with TDM (see footnote 16), the Government accepts the financial responsibility for any needed
layoffs prior to privatization.



- 25 -
information systems and accounting standards; and initiate an independent actuarial
analysis of INSS by the appointment of consultants;
(g) submit to the National Assembly a telecommunications law reflecting the sector
policy; and
(h) appoint investment advisers for the privatization of LAM.
VI. OWNERSHIP, DESIGN, DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
ARRANGEMENTS
82. "Buy-in". The proposed policy package in this note is based on the Government's
PRSP/PARPA. In addition, a seminar with the Government on the WB paper
Mozambique: Growth Prospects and Reform Agenda, resulted in an understanding on the
broad areas of reform to be addressed. "Ownership" is indicated by a number of bold up-
front actions such as the reprivatization of Banco Austral and the issuance of a tender for
new mobile telephone licenses.
83. Prior and ongoing technical work. The proposed policy reform package is also
based on a considerable body of technical work undertaken by the Government, the Bank
and other instances. A key element is the paper Mozambique: Growth Prospects and
Reform Agenda (2000) which helped to inform the PARPA/PRSP process. In addition,
there were the Financial Sector Study (2000), the study by Austral Consultaria on off-
budget flows, an IMF Fiscal Affairs Department study on tax exemptions, several studies
on aspects of the judicial sector, a study by NORPLAN on rural electrification, a study by
Price Waterhouse on telecommunications reform, a study by the IFC on the barriers to
investment, a Government-run study on transport costs which included a focus on coastal
shipping/cabotage, and a NORAD-funded study on the fisheries sector. With the
Government's agreement, a consultant team studied the macroeconomic impact of
HIV/AIDS, and these have been reflected in the projections used for this credit. Thus there
is considerable analytical basis for these policy measures.
84. Processing schedule. Preparation missions were conducted in March and July 2001.
After presentation to the Regional Operations Committee in September, appraisal took
place in November. Negotiations were held in April 2002 and Board presentation is
expected to take place in late August 2002. The team included three financial sector
experts, a telecommunications expert, an air transport expert, a public expenditure expert
(who simultaneously managed the public expenditure review) and a financial management
specialist.
85. Analytical requirements for the medium term program. Certain studies will be
needed to strengthen the medium term program and provide the analytical basis for the
next operation. These may include (a) a long-term study of the fisheries sector, in the
context of a multi-country project, to evaluate the degree of over-fishing and propose
remedial measures; (b) an investigation of the skilled labor market to assess the extent of
the bureaucratic problems faced by firms which need to import skilled labor, and to
propose solutions, and (c) other areas which may include land policy and coastal shipping,



- 26 -
and on which decisions will be taken later. Donor assistance is being sought to fund these
investigations.
86. Design. This credit is one of a series of adjustment credits which support the
ongoing reform process. It is part of a medium-term reform process and will be followed
by a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). It is thus part of a programmatic, multi-
year approach. A two-tranche operation is envisaged, the first for August 2002 and the
second floating tranche for around December 2002, each valued at US$60 million. A two-
tranche approach is congruent with this timing setup as it permits an earlier disbursement
for partial completion of the actions, and a final disbursement for completion. The actions
to be implemented by Board presentation and by the second tranche are presented in detail
in the policy matrix in Annex 1.
87.  The design of the operation responds to the lessons learned from adjustment
operations in general and from those of Mozambique in particular. There is strong
"ownership" of the program because it builds on the PARPA/PRSP. The analytical base is
strong (see paragraphs 83, 85). The social impact of the reforms of the PARPA will be
monitored through the on-going PARPA reporting process, through the PSIA pilot (see
para. 93) and subsequently through analytical work on the new household survey. The
second tranche conditions are relatively small in number. This operation is on the high-
risk side inasmuch as it focuses on public expenditure, parastatal and financial sector
reform (rather than lower-risk price liberalization, trade reform and regulatory reform).
But the efforts in public expenditure have to do with transparency and reporting and much
of the reform is already under way, reducing the risk. As for the parastatals, the
Government has accepted responsibility for possible layoffs arising from the privatization
of LAM and TDM. The financial sector reforms are mitigated - and the lessons of past
adjustment in Mozambique addressed - by having the EMPSO focus on reducing
Government ownership in the banks (40 percent to 20 percent in Banco Austral) and
strengthening banking supervision.
88. Assistance in preparation. The policy reforms supported by this credit are also
supported by several ongoing Bank credits and donor projects. The improvements in
budget coverage are being supported by the ongoing PER process, which is also supported
by a bilateral donor. Several bilateral donors are in addition providing assistance to several
of the directorates of the Ministry of Finance. IDA's Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) also examined the needs for improved budget coverage, and
presented recommendations. Financial sector reforms have been supported by the IMF in
the form of the provision of experts in bank restructuring and banking supervision. Tax
policy reforms have been supported by the IMF and bilateral development assistance. The
IFC has taken on a mandate to act as the investment adviser for the divestment of
PETROMOC. A Communications Sector Reform Project, approved by the WB Board in
November 2001, and valued at US$14.9 million, has assisted with the preparation of the
legal framework for communications and air transport, the strengthening of the regulators,
the privatization of TDM and LAM, and airport concessioning. DANIDA and other
donors have been supporting judicial sector reform.



- 27 -
89. Disbursement procedures and implementation arrangements. The EMPSO
Credit will follow the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment credits.'9
The Credit will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment
program and not tied to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will be
needed. Once the Credit is approved by the Board, and becomes effective, the Borrower
will open and maintain a dedicated deposit account in US dollars for the Borrower's use.
As each tranche is released, IDA will disburse the proceeds of the credit into the deposit
account. If, after depositing in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for
ineligible purposes as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the
Borrower to either: (a) return the amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b)
refund the amount directly to IDA. The administration (including implementation and
monitoring) of this Credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Planning and
Finance. The deposit account will be independently audited on terms of reference
acceptable to IDA.
90. Assistance in implementation. Assistance is needed for appropriate training for the
bank supervision department on the interpretation and analysis of the central bank's
revised off-site supervisory IT system outputs. The central bank is receiving assistance via
the East and Southern Africa Banking Supervisors' Group. The RMF is providing technical
assistance for banking supervision, and in addition the donor community has indicated its
willingness to assist should the authorities make a request.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
91.  On an a priori basis, the proposed credit is expected to lead to poverty reduction in
two ways. First, the credit will create the conditions for maintaining high growth rates by
promoting private sector investment and efficiency by privatization, better regulation,
infrastructure improvement, and a more efficient financial sector. In the short run, the
credit will improve the environment for growth and welfare by reducing uncertainty,
particularly in the financial sector, and by avoiding inevitable increases in interest rates
should the Government be forced to resort to borrowing to support its PRSP/PARPA
spending program. Given that 70 percent of the population is poor, the benefits of growth
are likely to be widely shared.
92.   Second, the credit will help poverty reduction through a better distribution of
income to be achieved via public expenditure prioritization. In turn public expenditure
prioritization is being hampered currently through a lack of information on spending
patterns because donors' contributions are uncoordinated and are not reflected in the
budget execution reports, precluding analysis of the impacts of specific kinds of spending
on poverty reduction in specific areas. The expenditure review under way is facilitating
wider budget coverage and developing analytical instruments to enable better public
expenditure prioritization.
9 See "Simplifying Disbursements under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans", Operational
Memorandum, February 8, 1996.



- 28 -
93.   The Government has prepared detailed plans for monitoring implementation of the
PARPA/PRSP. Evaluating its impact on the reduction of poverty will not be a simple task
because only one national household survey (1997) is available. When in 2003 the second
household survey becomes available, it will be possible to begin to measure systematically
the impacts of policy changes on changes in poverty incidence. A new Demographic and
Health Survey will also be done in 2003, permitting comparison with the DHS of 1996. In
the meantime, a poverty map is being completed using the 1997 household survey and the
1997 population census. The Bank and the Fund are carrying out poverty focused social
impact analysis20 of macroeconomic and structural policies; Mozambique is to be one of
the pilot countries and to this end DfID is providing assistance.
94. Risks. The credit faces risk from four sources: political, macroeconomic, fiduciary
and limited execution capacity. The political ownership of the reform program is relatively
thin: there is a small group of ministers and civil servants that back the program, and who
enjoy the support of the chief executive. The ruling party's margins, never large,
diminished in the last election, sharply in some of the northem areas of the country. This
creates an opportunity since the Govemment realizes it must create growth and poverty
reduction through vigorous reforms in order to win public support. However, it also
creates a climate of risk aversion and the possibility that the implementation of reforms
could slow down. To mitigate these risks, the proposed operation is in two tranches, with
release conditioned upon actions already taken.
95.  The macroeconomic risk arises from diminished private sector confidence in the
wake of the financial difficulties of the two partly state-owned banks, which was
manifested in a weakening of the currency during 2001 (which has since stabilized). The
proposed operation seeks to diminish this risk by reforms designed to lead to increased
transparency and to reduce the perverse incentives set up by state ownership in the banking
sector. This will lead to greater financial sector stability and less macroeconomic risk.
96.  Fiduciary risks, which are spelled out in detail in the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), are high. Efforts to mitigate these risks are at the
center of the Govemment's public sector reform program. There are action plans in the
Public Expenditure Management Review and the CFAA, the implementation of which will
support the Govenmment's refomm program.
97. Given limited Government capacity, there is a risk of a lack of coordination among
the wide-ranging aspects of the credit and consequently a risk of non-fulfilment of crucial
parts. In order to address this risk care has been taken to ensure the availability of
technical assistance wherever needed. (See details in paragraphs 88, 90.)
20Termed Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA).



- 29 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
98. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
August 2, 2002



- 30 -                                                          ANNEX 1
Page I of 7
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOR OPERATION (EMPSO) CREDIT
ANNEX 1. POLICY AND PROCESSING MATRIX
Note: Paragraphs in bold indicate conditions for Board and,id tranche.
Diagnosis                    Policies                       Intermediate Progress Benchmarks                        Medlum term      Other Bretton Woods
IActions intended to be undertaken by  Actions intended to be  program: actions mid- and donor Instruments
August 2002 (in bold, Board con-  undertaken by end-2002 (in  2003 to 2005, and
ditions)                         bold, 2d tranche         anticipated outcomes
I  conditions)                               _
A. Macroeconomic manaaement
Inflation rose to double-digit  Maintain conditions for swift Throughout the program: Maintain  Throughout the program:  Inflation under 7%,  IMF Poverty Reduction
figures during 2001; exchange  GDP growth (6 percent or  overall macroeconomic targets as de- Maintain overall  maintain competitive  and Growth Facility
rate slid in response to banking  more) and hence for poverty fined in the PRGF program  macroeconomic targets as  exchange rate, keep
sector problems.             reduction.                                                defined in the PRGF pro-  domestic primary
Macroeconomic uncertainty    Preserve overall                                          gram.                   deficit under 3% of
harmful for growth prospects and macroeconomic stability.                                                      GDP.
for poverty reduction.
Spending pattem of 2001 (do-  Reduce aid dependence by  New code of fiscal incentives for                      Raise ratio of revenue  TA by IMF and Swiss.
mestic primary deficit of about 6  raising revenues and  investment passed by Cabinet, ration-                 to GDP from 12 percent IMF FAD study of tax
percent of GDP) cannot be    implementing gradual ad-  alizing the incentives and reducing                     in 2001 to 14 percent  policy. Analysis of
maintained indefinitely. Domes- justment in expenditures.  revenue losses. DONE.                               by 2005. By i.a. an  investment incentives by
tic resource mobilization is low.  Revise the income tax                                                       improved income tax  WB paper Growth Pros-
Country must adapt to declining  system, increase efficiency                                                   law and an efficient  pects and Reform
donor assistance in the medium  of tax collection                                                              central revenue      Agenda.
term.                                                                                                          authority.
B. Public Sector Manaeement
Budget execution reports omit  Report on spending of donor By Board: Establish a plan of  Budget Execution Re-  All concessional funds  PER done collaboratively
donor-financed projects in   funds using data from    action. DONE.                    ports, starting with 2002  including projects  by IDA and MPF. EU,
classification - about 78% of the  sectoral ministries                                 Ql, include statistical  reflected in budget &  Swedish and other assis-
investment account.                                                                    annex table(s) reflecting  budget execution  tance to Ministry of
this spending           reports              Finance.
Budgets and budget execution  Obtain information on    Establish a plan of action and issue a  Prepare instructions for  Regular audits to  PER chapter dealing with
reports omit undisclosed receipts  unreported taxes and on  circular to ministries to provide  channeling receipts to the  ensure that officials  "receitas pr6prias".
by ministries ("receitas     amounts collected, reflect  information on receitas pr6prias.  MPF.                collecting taxes without
pr6prias"). Undermines the   these in the 2003 budget  DONE.                                                    disclosure are punished;
public service; encourages illicit                     Obtain, for each sector, the total  Incorporate projections of that use of these funds
behavior.                                              amounts collected, by tariff or tax.  ministerial own receipts  is transparent.
DONE.                            (receitas prdprias) in 2003
Budget plans.



-31-                                                            ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
Diagnosis                    Policies                       Intermediate Progress Benchmarks                       Medium term      Other Bretton Woods
Actions intended to be undertaken by  Actions intended to be  program: actions mid- and donor Instruments
August 2002 (in bold, Board con-  undertaken by end-2002 (in  2003 to 2005, and
ditions)                         bold, 2d tranche         anticipated outcomes
____ ____ ____ ___ ____   ___ ____ ___ ____ ____ ____ ___ co n d itio n s)   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Civil society is poorly informed  Disseminate information,  Agreed that once the Government                    Introduce reforms on  Public Expenditure
about the priorities of, or major  demonstrate that a reform  approves the grey cover version of the           basis of completed PER Review (IDA). Fiscal
problems with, government    program of public         Public Expenditure Management                           and Public Expenditure Transparency Assessment
spending                     expenditures is under way  Review (PEMR) the Bank may                             Tracking Survey      by IMF's FAD. DffD-
distribute it. DONE.                                     (PETS).              funded expenditure
____ ____ ____ ___ ____   ___ ___ ____ ____ ___ review s.
Justice
Redress by courts is slow; diffi-  Accelerate the program of  By Negodadons: Draft strategic  The Strategic Integrated  Reform ofjudicial  DANIDA assistance in
cult to use collateral; contract en- thoroughgoing reform of the Integrated plan for reform of the  Plan for the Legal and  sector is implemented  judicial reform. Assis-
forcement difficult.        legal and judicial sector  judicial sector, and the final plan of Judicial Sector 2002-  following the integrated tance by UNDP and other
Ministry of Justice submitted to  2006 is approved by the  strategic plan. Backlog donors.
IDA. DONE.                       Conselho de Coordena-   in Supreme Court cases
Submit the draft Commercial Code to pao de Legalidade e  reduced from its level
Parliament. DONE.                Justia, in which the    of 142,487 in 2001.
four subsectors - Min. of
Justice, Supreme Court,
Administrative Court,
and Attorney-General -
are represented; and the
four sub-sectors adopt
their respective strategic
plans.
Change the Notarial Code
to permit legal recognition
of documents other than
those in the Livro de Notas.
DONE.
Train staff of Public Notary
and acquire IT equipment.



- 32 -                                                        ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
Diagnosis                    Policies                      Intermediate Progress Benchmarks                      Mediumterm      OtherBretton Woods
Actions intended to be undertaken by  Actions intended to be  program: actions mid- and donor Instruments
August 2002 (in bold, Board con-  undertaken by end-2002 (in  2003 to 2005, and
ditions)                        bold, 2"d tranche       anticipated outcomes
conditions)_
C. Private Sector Develovment
Financial Sector
Serious financial difficulties of  Government to withdraw  Initiate negotiations with new  Complete the sale of Banco Reduce Govemment  IMF consultant & WB
the two biggest, partly state-  altogether from BCM/BIM  purchaser of Banco Austral. DONE.  Austral. DONE.   share in all banks to  staff advice.
owned, banks. Banco Austral  and Banco Austral, so as to  By Board: Coneerning the further                  zero.
and BIM/ BCM (BIM Group) in  sharpen incentives of private recapitalization of BIM: (i) Issue
irregular situation w.r.t. pru-  owners for improved  circular requiring that accounting
dential requirements. Currency  management.          Information sent monthly by all
depreciation in mid-2001 partly                      commercial banks be signed by
due to lack of confidence over                       competent managers previously
the future of the financial system.                  registered at BM; (ff) prepare a
business plan (including a
monitorable debt collection plan)
showing how the low business
viability of the bank will be
improved; (iii) Government under-
takes not to vote on its shares for
non-executive directors; (iv)
appoint a specialist advisory group
to assess the reasons why the
former BCM made serious financial
losses, examining the procedures In
credit and other risk management
practises. DONE.
Aggressive collection of  By Negotiations: Issue a monitor-  Publish the outcome of the
debt from bad debtors to pre- able bad debt collection action plan debt collection process in
vent similar situations of  for BAu, including use of "execu-  the quarterly budget
.moral hazard" arising   teesflscais", with monitoring   execution reports, starting
again; and pursue criminals  through publication in the  with that of the second
quarterly budget execution reports. quarter of 2002, as
DONE.                           indicated in the action plan.



- 33 -                                                         ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
Diagnosis                    Policies                      Intermediate Progress Benchmarks                       Medium term     Other Bretton Woods
Actions intended to be undertaken by  Actions intended to be  program: actions mid- and donor Instruments
August 2002 (in bold, Board con-  undertaken by end-2002 (in  2003 to 2005, and
ditions)                        bold, 2nd tranche        anticipated outcomes
conditions)
Complete the assessment
by the specialist advisory
group (of why former
BCM made.serlous
financial losses, etc.); If
wrongdoing is found, send
the report to the Attor-
ney-GeneraL
Appoint a specialist advi-
sory group to investigate,
i.r.o. BAu, deficiencies in
the system of checks and
balances, and if wrong-
doing is found, report it to
the Attomey-General
Possibility of regulatory arbitrage Counteract these problems  Pass a central bank A viso with rules                              Assistance of IMF and
between banks which are     through consolidated     on consolidated supervision. DONE.                                           WB experts
operationally mnerged       supervision.
Medium-term issues: Need to  Improve supervision of  By Board: (a) BM issues a regulation Banco de Moiambique  Improve banking laws  Training in supervision -
prevent another crisis in the  banking and of non-banking - requiring financial institutions to  monitors compliance with  taking into account  assistance to be sought
banking system. And to foresee  financial institutions through prepare all financial reports from Jan. the accounting and auditing, national, regional  from donors as necessary.
and prevent crises from     (a) information through in-  2002 in compliance with standards of standards.      (SADC) and inter-
developing in non-banking fi-  dependent audits, (b)  by Int. Accounting Standards Board;                     national lessons
nancial institutions.       facilitating the establishment (b) Issue a decree-on external                     Form a professional
of a professional body of  auditing of financial institutions,                   body of accountants.
accountants, and (c) changes requiring that financial statements
in legislation, regulations  Issued after the date of the decree
and practice             be audited annually by qualified
auditors in compliance with stan-
dards of the International Fede-
ration of Accountants. DONE.



- 34 -                                                         ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
Diagnosis                    Policies                      Intermediate Pro gress Benchmarks                      Medium term      Other Bretton Woods
Actions intended to be undertaken by  Actions intended to be  program: actions mid- and donor instruments
August 2002 (in bold, Board con-  undertaken by end-2002 (in  2003 to 2005, and
ditions)                        bold, 2d tranche         anticipated outcomes
conditions)
Problems in the major erstwhile  Protect the independence of (a) Authorities undertake that the  Enforce full compliance
state-owned banks caused partly  the financial system  Minister is presented only with  of all banks with all exist-
by the banking supervisors not  supervisors           applications supported by the BM  ing prudential rules and
being permitted to undertake                          (DONE); (b) issue guidelines to be  regulations by specifying
necessary corrective actions early                    made public specifying that the bank  corrective actions ir.o.
enough                                                supervision department will be the  prudential regulations
authority and accountable party in  (capital inadequacy, risk
BM, tasked with enforcement of  concentration, reserve
banking law (DONE); (c) the latter to and any liquidity require-
include: non-compliant commercial  ments, foreign exchange
banks be required to sign, within 30  exposure, and fixed asset
days of non-compliance, a memo-  and equity participation
randum of understanding with the  ratios) in reference to the  Ensure that the mini-
supervisors containing an action plan  end-June 2002 accounts,  mum capital require-
to ensure that the non-compliance  which have been Issued in ment for operating a
with capital adequacy and other  accordance with inter-  bank be adjusted
prudential requirements be rectified  national accounting and  according to macro and
within 6 months (DONE).         auditing standards.     market conditions.
Raise the minimum capital
requirements for operating
a bank (DONE).
Owing to lack of certified audits, Clarify the financial viability                    (a) Complete an indepen-
financial viability of INSS and  or otherwise of (a) EMOSE                            dent audit of the 2001
EMOSE is not clear.         and (b) INSS                                              accounts of EMOSE,
including an opinion on
mathematical reserves,
valuation of real estite
holdings and other fixed
assets, information
systems and accounting
standards; (b) initiate
independent actuarial
analysis of INSS
Energv
PETROMOC -- market share fell Restructure and disvest or  Contract the services of an investment Cabinet adopts a strategy of Complete the divest-  Govemment asked IFC to



-35 -                                                          ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
Diagnosis                    Policies                      Intermediate Progress Benchmarks                       Medium term      Other Bretton Woods
Actions intended to be undertaken by  Actions intended to be  program: actions mid- and donor instruments
August 2002 (in bold, Board con-  undertaken by end-2002 (in  2003 to 2005, and
ditions)                        bold, 2i tranche         anticipated outcomes
___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __   on iti ns   __ ___ __ ___ ___conditions)_ ___ __
from 83% in 1989 to 37% in   privatize the Government's  adviser. DONE.               divestment and privatiza-  ment and privatization  act as adviser for privati-
1999 and following the transfor-  share in PETROMOC so as                             tion on the basis of the ad-  of the Government's  zation
mation of the company rose to  to (i) prevent loss of firm                            viser's Strategic Options  share in PETROMOC  IDA and IFC assisted
43% in 2000 and 40% in 2001;  value and (ii) forestall                                study of the modalities of  starting with issuance  with an environmental
lacks capital to upgrade. Danger possibility of policy                                privatization.          of tender documents.  pre-audit.
of policy reversal.         reversals.                                                                        Do a full environmental
audit and take needed
.____________________ _ .cleanup  measures.
Telecommunications
Only 5 per 1000 Mozambicans  Further liberalize telecoms  (i) Release tender documents for the - Submit to Parliament a  Introduce a regime  IDA: Communication
has a fixed telephone line. Little  by issuing more cellular  issuance of a new cellular license,  telecommunications law  whereby a request for a Sector Reform Project.
network extension. High mobile licenses and modifying  with permission to build national long reflecting the sector  mobile license triggers  USAID Regional Tele-
and international tariffs,  legislation.             distance infrastructure. DONE. (ii)  policy              a further auction.  communications Restruc-
reflecting inter alia the                             Cabinet approves telecommunications                                         turing Project. Canadian
incumbent's monopoly on                              policy. DONE. (iii) By Board: sub-                                           Development Agency
intemational services.                                mit to Parliament a legal amend-                                            (university VSAT net-
ment ending TDM's monopoly on                                                work).
international services. DONE.
TDM needs to be restructured to  Invite a strategic partner to  Select investment advisers for the  Issue, in a manner satis-  Complete privatization
prepare it for competition   take an important role in  privatization of TDM.         factory to IDA, the     of TDM.
TDM                                                      information memorandum
for the sale of a controlling
share of TDM
Air Transwrit
Air transport system not efficient Liberalize air transport  Approval by Cabinet of a new air  Set up legislation to  Air transport liberali-  IDA: Communication
enough to facilitate mnarket                          transport policy. DONE.        implement the air transport zation implemented.  Sector Reform Project.
integration and link remote areas                    By Board: Enactment by Cabinet of liberalization (including
of the country. Costs are high,                       the new air policy, which thereby  licensing, pricing, provision
coverage is uneven.                                   opens all non-scheduled traffic (in-  for social routes and
cluding charters) to any provider,  minimum service).
provides for free licensing for
scheduled domestic flights, and
provides for multi-designation of
carriers for International scheduled
operations. DONE.
Enact decree empowering the



-36-                                                           ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
Diagnosis                    Policies                       Intermediate Progress Benchmarks                      Mediumterm       OtherfBretton Woods
Actions intended to be undertaken by  Actions intended to be  program: actions mid- and donor Instruments
August 2002 (in bold, Board con-  undertaken by end-2002 (in  2003 to 2005, and
ditions)                         bold, 2nd tranche       anticipated outcomes
I______ ______ ______ ______   __ __ __ _ __ _ _conditions) 
Instituto de Aviagio Civil to oversee
regulation of the sector. DONE.
LAM management needs streng- Restructure LAM and invite  Adoption by Cabinet of a re-  Appointment of         Complete privatization
thening to respond to an     a strategic partner to take an  structuring-cum-privatization plan for Investment advisers for  of LAM, starting with
increasingly competitive environ- important role in the  LAM.                         the privatization of LAM. issuance of tender
ment.                        company.                                                                         documents.
Management of airports not yet  Contract out management of Issuance of final bids calling for pri-  Initiate negotiations with a  Further concessioning
able to respond to expected  airports                 vate participation in Maputo Airport  private company or  of airports
increases in demand.                                  concession. DONE.               consortium over the
issuance of a concession for
Maputo International
Airport
Coastal shiRRing / cabotage
High cabotage tariffs a constraint Reduce tariffs through (i)                         Complete ongoing. study  Encourage entry oy  IDA: study on transport
on agricultural and other exports. increasing competition by                                                  facilitating issue of li-  costs, including a
A defacto monopoly in some  actively encouraging new                                                          censes to domestically  component on cabotage,
areas.                      entry, and (ii) more efficient                                                   registered firms and  funded by Railways and
port services                                                                    permitting foreign-  Ports Restructuring
licensed ships to    Project.
operate.



- 37 -                                                                  ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
Status of World Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
World Bank Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants), as of May 9, 2002
Closed Projects       27
18RDIDA -
Total Disbursed (Active)                                    301.12
of which has been repaid                                 0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)                                  1,294.59
of whtich has been repaid                              697.89
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)                         1,595.70
of which has been repaid                              697.89
Total Undisbursed (Active)                                  599.79
Total Undisbursed (Closed)                                   2.99
Total Undiabursed (Active + Close                          602.79
AcSive Prolet                                                                                                                                     DIfference Between
Last PSR                                                                  Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                Original Amount In USS Millions               Dibursements
Develoom Implement
Project ID                    Project Name                             ML       ation  Fiscal Year    IBRD    IDA       GRANT   Cancel.    Undhsb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
Obleetives Froaress
P001804                       2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                       S         S       1994                188.00                1.68     22.55     26.10     18.51
P001799                       AGRIC SECTOR PEP                          S         S       1999                 30.00                         20.15     14.70
P035919                       COASTAL MANAGEMENT                        S         S       2000                             4.11               3.55      1.80      0.83
P070305                       Coastal and Marlne Biodiversily MGMT      S         S       2000                  5.60                          4.85      5.00
P049874                       ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                    S         S       2000                 26.00                        't7.77      7.70
PO01788                       Education Setor Strategic Program(ESSP)   S         U        1999                71.00                         60.23     43.40
P001792                       HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                       S         S       1998                 98.70                         19.62     31.80
P089824                       Higher Education Project                  S         -       2002                 60.00                         58.91
P073479                       MZ - Communication Sector Reform          S         -       2002                  14.90                        14.71
P001780                       MZ GAS ENGINEERING (ENGY)                 S         S       1994                 30.00                3.47      1.55      5.60      5.58
P001806                       MZ-MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT          S         S       2002                 33.60                         31.05      0.40
P001785                       MZ-ROADS & BRIDGES MMP                    S         S       2002                 182.00                       161.17      1.40
P001808                       Mineral Resources Project (NRMCP)         S         S       2001                 18.00                         16.72      0.80
P039015                       NATIONAL WATER I                          S         S        1998                38.00                         25.21     18.70
P052240                       NATIONAL WATER 11                         S         U        1999                75.00                         64.52     20.30
P042039                       RAILWAY & PORT RESTR                      S         5       2000                 100.00                        80.77     49,70     -0.61
P001759                       TRANSBORDER PARKS                         S         S        1997                              5                1.03      1.00
Overall result                                                                            Result              948.60       9.11     5.12    604.37    228.40     24.31
A I..t.ndI rlso  n  #n rie ,,,i,,t  -  tu.I dighurrsaments to date an orolected at aswralsal.



- 38 -                                               ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of March 2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                      Disbursed
FY Approval Company           Loan   Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996      AEF Cahora Bassa       0.18      0     0     0  0.18      0       0        0
1998      BIM-INV                   0    0.3     0     0     0     0.3      0        0
2000      BMF                       0    0.2     0     0     0     0.2      0        0
1999      Maragra Sugar          10.30     0     0     0     0      0       0        0
1997/01   MOZAL                  7.50      0   58.5    0  49.5      0     58.5       0
1992      Polana Hotel            0.7      0     0     0   0.7      0       0        0
2000      SEF Ausmoz              0.72     0     0     0   0.45      0      0        0
1997      SEF CPZ                   I      0     0     0     1      0       0        0
1997      SEF CTOX               0.73      0     0     0  0.73      0       0        0
2000      SEF Cabo Caju           0.58     0     0     0   0.51      0      0        0
1999      SEFROBEIRA             0.12      0     0     0  0.12      0       0        0
Total Portfolio:                 88.81    0.5  58.5    0 53.18     0.5    58.5       0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
2000       BIML                     2     0.3     0    0
2001       SEF Grand Prix          0.4     0      0    0
Total Pending Committment:         2.4    0.3     0    0
Source: IFC Data Warehouse.



-39 -                                        ANNEX3
Page 1 of 2
Mozambique at a glance
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   Saharan     Low.
Moaxmbicqus    Atrica  Income     Development dlamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                 17.6     642    2,417               Life expectancy
GNPpercapita(Atlasmethod.US$)                   210      500      410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                 3.7     321      988
Average annual growth, 1994400
Population (X)                                   2.2      2.6     1.9
Labor force (X)                                  2.4      2.6     2.3     GNP                          Gross
Per                         primnary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                     capita                    enroIrmrent
Poverty (X of population below natonal poverty line)  69
Urban population ( oftotalpopuxation)            39       34       31
Life expectency at birth (years)                 47       50       60
Infant mortality (per 1.000 ase births)         134       92       77
Child malnutritIon (X of children under 5)       26       32       43             Access to safe water
Access to improved water aource (X of population)  60     43       64
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)             60       39       39
Gross pdmary enrollment (5 ofscol-age population  71      78       96         -    M    ozambique
Male                                           79       85      102                 towincome group
Female                                         60       71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980    1990     1999     2000
Economic ratst
GDP (USS billions)                       3.5     2.5      4.1     3.8
Gross domestic lnvesimenU/GDP            5.9    15.6     36.9    39.6                  Trade
Exports of goods and servicestGDP       10.9     8.2     10.1    12.3
Gross domestic savingslGDP             -10.6   -12.3      9.3     11.9
Gross national savings/GDP              -8.6    -4.4     19.3     26.9
Current account balance before grants/GDP  -12.0  -30.5  -28.2  -27.7     Domestic              vestment
Interest payments/GDP 1/                 0.0     0.5      1.5      1.0    Savings
Total debt/GDP                            ..   331.4    104.1    109.4             A        <
Total debt service/exports I/                   18.8     15.3     9.1
Present value of debttexports 2W3                       212.0    194.4
1980.90 1990-00    1999     2000  2000-04               Indebtednes
(average annual growth)
GDP                             -0.1     6.4     7.5      1.6      9.5                    Mozambtque
GNP per capita                  -2.5     4.2     5.7     -1.1      7.4                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services   -6.8    13.7    14.0     15.0     25.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980    1990     1999     2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
iX6of GDP)
Agricultur                               0.0    37.1     30.5     24.4
Industry                                 0.0    18.4     24.0     25.1   60
Manufacturing                                 10.2     12.2     12.6    o        
Services                               100.0    4.45     45.5     50.5   20
Privateconsumption                      98.4   100.7     81.3     78.2          so   es   Br   98   na   00
General govemment consumPtion           12.2    11.6      9.5      9.9          -     -       G     GDP
Imports of goods and services           27.4    36.1     37.8     40.0
(average annual growth)              1980t90 1990.00    1999     2000     Growth ot exports and Imports (%)
Agricultre                               6.6     4.9      5.8    -10.3    6.
Industry                                -4.5    14.0     15.7      4.3   °0
Manufacturing                                 17.1      14.0    11.0    20
Services                                 9.1     2.4      6.0     11.3
Privateconsumption                      -1.4     3.9      6.9     -4.3     0          9,  97   90   so  o0
General govemment consumption           -2.6     2.5      9.7      5.0
Gross domestic investment                3.8    14.2     61.7      6.2   -40
Imports of goods and services           -3.8     6.6     45.0      0.0        -       Export        Ipoorts
Gmss national product                   -1.0     6.6      7.8      0.7 7_
11 Alter rescheduling In Naples terms and incuding private debL
2 After rescheduling on Naples ienms and exduding private debt
3/ After rescheduling In Naples terrns and as a percent of ehree year moving average of exports of goods andr non-factor services.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing,
fe diamond will be incomplete.



-40 -                                           ANNEX3
Page 2 of 2
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domne.s tic prIces                        1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                    eo
Consumer prices                             ..     43.7      2.9      12.7   so
Implicit GDP defator                        ..     34.1      3.0      11.7    40
Government flnance                                                            20
(% of GDP, Indudes current grants)                                             0
Current rvenue                            13.8     17.0      18.3     17.8           as    as   97    gI    D9    0
Cuffentbudgetbalanoe                       1.4      2.4      6.1       4.2         -    GOP debator        CPI
OveraUl surplus/deWtd                     -3.5    -11.7      -6.8    -10.9
TRADE
(US$ Mlt/ionsJ                           o1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mUL)
Total exports (fob)                        281      126      284      364     146o
Cashew                                    67       15        33       28    m.200
Prawn                                     32       43        66       69     1.ooe
Manufactures                                ..     27        14       14      e      wo                 U
Totailmports (ci)                            ..    780      1.200    1.162     xJOO  *                     E
Food                                       ..      ..        47       87      oo    *    L       *      J    _
Fuel and energy                             ..     ..       124       44      200
Capital goods                               ..     ..       243      410       0
Export prce Index (1995=100)                83      91        77       77           94   rs   X   97   s    go  o
Import price index (1995=100)              107      92        66       88                a Eplor      UImports
Terns of trade (1995=100)                   77       99       90       87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(U.JS$ millions)                          1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (S)
Exports of goods and services              399     229       601      732       o
Ilports of goods and servies               844     850      1.540    1.546       t  m     m    mi        m     m
Resource balance                          -445    -821       -939     -814    .10
Net Income                                  22     -145      -214     -228     2*
Net auoent trbansers                        0       0         0        0     *25
Current account balance                    -423    -766    -10152   -1.042    430
135
Financing Items (net)                      390     772      1,220    1.235    40
Changes in net reserves                     32       -6      -68      -194    .5
Memo:
Reserves inrcuding gold (USS millions)     238     232       669      746
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocallUSS)           32.4   929.1   12,689.5  15.689.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                 Composition of 1998 debt (USS milL.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed 11      ..   8.326     4.260    4.106
lBRD                                       .       0         0        0                        G'9
IDA                                        ..    268       702      760                              6: .33
Total debt service 1/                        ..      57      156       176        F: 1.975 
IBRD                                       ..      0         0        0              /   -.                 204
IDA                                        ..      7        16        2                                      16 le
Composition of net resource flows                                                                     -
Offidal grants                             ..    448       428      564
OfndalcreditorsV                           ..     165       86       114
PrHvate credtors                           ..     20       321      285
Foreign direct Investment                  ..       9      382       139
Portfolio equity                           ..      ..        ..       ..E: 265
World Bank program
Commnitments3/                             ..     105       176     61.6     A-BRD                     E-Biaral
Disbursements 31                                  74       230      97.5     B-IDA    0 - Other rnulateral F - Pdvate
Principal repayments                        .      6         6       0.8     C - IMF                   G Short-baen
Net flws                                  ..      68       224      96.7
Interest payments                          .         1     10       1.4
Net transfers                              ..      67      214      95.3
Development Economics
1/ Incudes private sector debt Alter rescheduling on Naples teros and debt forgiveness under ouiginal HIPC Ini4iative.
21 Excluding IMF and Including debt relief on current payments.
31 Indudes the US$150 milion grant under the Economic Management Refolm Operation provided as HIPC Initiative Interim assistance in 1999.



- 41 -                                                      ANNEX 4
Page 1 of I
Selected Economic and Financial Indicators (1998-2005)
Actuals               Estimated                    Projected
Indicators                        1998        1999       2000        2001       2002        2003       2004       2005
Output, income, and prices                                         (Annual growth rates)
Real GDP                                            12.6        7.5         1.6       13.9         9.0        5.6        11.9        9.8
Real GDP per capita                                 10.4        5.4        -0.2       11.8         7.0         3.6        9.8        7 7
Real consumption per capita                          4.9        5.1        -5.2       -4.2         8.7        4.2         5.7        6.9
Inflation (period average)                           0.6        2.9        12.7        9.0        16.6        6.5         5.0        5 0
External sector                                                       (In million US$)
Imports (c.i.£) at current prices                  817       1,200       1,162      1,117       1,769       1,738      1,644      1,852
Exports (fo.b.) atcurrent prices                   245         284        364         704        711         759       1,630      2,072
Termsoftrade(decline-)                              -3.2      -14.3        -2.8       5.8         3.5        2.1         1.0        0.7
Real effective exchange rate(end of period)       -7.7        2.0        2.3       -23.5         ..
(depreciation -)
(Annual change in percent of beginning-period broad money, unless otherwise specified)
Money
Net domestic assets                                9.3        23.9        11.6        9.1        12.0        9.3        17.6       22.4
of which: credit to govemment                     -16.0       -           4.1        5.3         7.0        -1.6        -1.3       -0.6
creditto the restofthe economy           17.8       22.9        22.3       22.9        14.1         7.8       11.5       10 1
M2 growth rate                                     17.6        35.1       42.4        29.7        19.2       11.9        17.6       15.4
Prime rate (in percent-end period)                  19.6       19.6        19.6       25.3
Public finances                                                   (In percent of GDP)
Central governmentrevenue (excluding grants)       11.3        12.0        12.7       12.9        13.0        13.7       14.4       15.0
Tax revenue                                       10.5       11.0        11.6       11.5        11.8        12.4       13.2       13 8
Nontaxrevenue                                     15.4       18.3        17.8       17.8        16.4        17.7       17.7       180
Expenditure incl. Net lending                       21.8       25.1        28.8        30.7       29.9        27.0       25.8       25.3
Overall deficit(-)                                 -10.5       -13.2      -16.1       -17.8      -i6.9       -13.4       -11.4      -10.3
Primary balance (excluding grants) 1/             -1.4        -0.8        -4.3       -4.2        -5.2       -2.3        -2.2       -2.1
Savings and investment                                            (In percent of GDP)
Grossnationalsavings                                12.2        19.3       26.9        31.1       28.8        30.9       27.3        27.0
Gross domestic fixed capital formation              24.2       36.9        39.6        41.6       57.7        54.1        33.3       30.0
Public sector                                      9.8        11.6        13.3       14.1        12.6        12.5       11.7       11.3
Private sector                                    14.5        25.3        26.3       27.5        45.1       41.6        21.6       18.7
External current account balance (after grants)   -18.9       -28.2       -27.7      -23.6       -40.3      -34.4       -15.3      -11.3
Other Indicators                                         (In percent of exports of goods and services)
Net present value of total extemal debt outstanding to
exports ratio2/                                     549.1       212.0       194.4      113.2       100.3        96.5       80.4       64.8
Extemaaldebtserviceratio2/                          20.0        15.3         2.5        2.7         3.8        3.9         2.9        2.5
(In millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified)
Gross official reserves
In millions of USS                                625        669         746        727         736         791         883        920
Inmonthsofimportsofgoodsandservices               7.1         5.2         5.8        3.7         4.1        4.7         3.9        3.6
Exchange rate- period average (local currency/ USS)  11,850  12,689      15,689     20,707      24,546     26,455      27,381     28,339
Current GDP (in USS billions)                        4.0        4.1         3.8         3.6        3.9        .4.0         4.6        5.1
Sources: Mozambican authorities; World Bank and IMF staff estimates and projections.
I/ Defined as overall balance after grants excluding interest payments.
2/ Public and publicly guaranteed, in percent of the three-year average of exports. Data for 1998 reflect the impact of applying
traditional debt reliefmechanisms(Naples terms). Thedata for 1999-2000 includes the impactoftotal debtreliefunder
the original HIPC Initiative. Data for 2001-02 include the impact of total debt relief under the enhanced HIPC, additional
bilateral assistance, and new borrowing.



-42 -                                                ANNEX5
Page 1 of I
Mozambique Social Indicators
Latest single year                 Same region/income group
Sub-Saha-               Low-
1970-75     1980485      1993-00                  ran Africa          Income
POPULATION
Total population. mid-year (millions)                       10.5        13.5          17.3                     642.8            2,417.1
Growth rate (% annual average for period)                  2.2         2.3          2.4                        2.6               1.9
Urban population (% of population)                           8.6        19.4         38.9                       33.8              31.4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                      6.5         6.4           5.2                       5.3               3.7
POVERTY (%l of population)                                    ..          ..         69.0                          -
INCOME
GNI per capita (USS)                                          *-         260          210                        490               420
Consumerpriceindex(1995=100)                                               1          179                        131               138
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Share of income or consumption
Gini index                                                    ..           ..         39.6
Lowest quintile (3e of incomc o, eovuomptiion)                 ..          ..          6.5
Highest quintile (56 n,incomr or eonsmpikn)                  ..           ..         46.5
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public current expenditure
Health (% ofGDP)                                            ..        0.81           1.3
Education (% of GDP)                                         ..        1.6*          3.0
Gross primary school enrollment rate (grades/.5; % of age group)
Total                                                       ..          62           91                         78
Adult literacy rate                                           ..           ..          40                         61
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)
Total                                                       ..           9           60                         55                76
Urban                                                     ..          82           86                         82                88
Rural                                                     ..           2           43                         41                70
Immunization rate (% under 12 nwnths)
Measles                                                     ..          39           90                         57                64
DPT                                                          ..         29           92                         59                70
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                                                   26
Life expectancy at birth (years)
Total                                                       43          44           47                         47                 59
Male                                                      42          42            ..                        46                58
Female                                                   45           45            ..                        48                60
Mortality
Infant (per 1,000 live births)                             166         135          134                         92                77
Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                           281          195          213                        161               116
Adult (I 5-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                             498          468          580                        499               288
Female (per 1,000 population)                           382          361          514                        453               258
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                           ..           ..        1,100
Births attended by skilled health staff(%)                     ..         28           44
Other indicators
Contraceptive prevalence (women 15-49)                      ..          ..            6                         21
Adult HIV prevalence (per 100 adults)                       ..          ..           12                          7
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies
between the estimates of school-age population and reported enrollment data. Latest year for access to improved water
souree data is 2000.
* Refers to data for 1998.
2001 World Development Indicators CD-ROM. World Bank and Govenmment data.



Annex 6 -
Page 1 of 11
REPDBLICA DE MOVAMDJQUE
MINISTERIO DO PLANO E FINANCAS
GABINETE DA MINISTRA
wo.J35 /G/5wz9I  'F/02
rMaputo, !May}O, 2002
wdr. james (D. Wo(fensohn, (President
qlie Wor(fdBank
181875Street, 97VW.
Washington, (D.C. 20433
9p:  Letterof (Deve(opment (Poltcyfor the Economic Management and
(Private Sector Operation (EWM(PSO)
1. I am writing, on 6eha5f of the Government of 9dozam6ique, to request a
Credit in an amount of 'VS$ 120.0 miffion from the International
(Devefopment Association, to continue supporting the Government of
9ozam6ique structural reform program  under the proposed Economic
Wdanagement and (Private Sector Operation (E5WPSO) The Credit witffhefp
to meet the 6akance of paymentsfinancing requirements that sMozam6ique
faces.
2. q'he gist of this phase of our reform program is to provide a rapid economic
growth and reduce the very hi8h (.eve( of poverty and; to achieve this
o6jective, 9vozam6ique needs to em6ark to a new round of reforms, which
incfiudes the strengthening of the macroeconomic environment through the
improvement of the effectiveness and transparency of pu6(ic spendtng,
remove impediments of growth in the private sector, namety through the
restructuring of thefinanciatsector, improvement of reforms in the (ega(and
judiciat sector, anm encouraging private sector entry in energy and air
transport andte(ecommunications sectors.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 11
Overview andwR.tionate
3. Over the past few years, the Government of 9Wozam6ique has largely
succeeded in creating a macroeconomic environment supportive of economic
growtk %otuithstanding this perfonrance, tfie economy stiffremainsfragife
as it was seen namefy with the ffoods in 2000 and 2001, anm thefinancia(
difficutfiesfaced6y the two 6iggest commercial6anks.
4. Taking into consideration the exstingfragilities, a secondgeneration of
reforms 6ecomes imperative in orfer to affow the effectiveness of the (Tan of
J4ctionforAb6sofute (Poverty Rediuction (TATRg5F.), which is WMozam6ique's
(Poverty  (Psduction  Strategy  (Paper (1?$) providing  appropnate
environment that 6uit7s up conditions for rapid, sustaina66e and
comprehensive growth. "fence, thefinanciaf resources of the 6eing proposed
EMf(PSO wilT 6e app(ied in the priority sections anm sectors for poverty
reduction.
The (Program
5. qhe main o6jective of the Government is a su6stantia( reduction in the
(evets of a6so[ute poverty in 9dozam6ique through the adoption of measures
to improve the capacities of anm tfie opportunities avaifa6fe to alT
fMozam&icans, especiaffy the poor. The specific o6jective is to reduce the
incidence of a6sotute poverty from 70% in 1997 to fess than 60% 6y 2005
andYess than 50% 6y the enmof this decade.
6. In this regard; the main chaffenge anmpriority, now, is to imprenent the
(PARP4P, anddeepen the policies oriented to growth, macroeconomic stabilty
and deve(opment of social sectors. 7he £ENM(PSO wil; therefore, aim at
addressing these structura(weaknesses anm there6y sustain the momentum of
the reform program. It wiff speciaffy focus on pu6fic sector management anm
private sector devetopment. The program aims to achieve an average annuaf
GDPgrowth rate of 8%.



- 45 -                           Annex 6
Page 3 of 11
7. tith reference to the (Fisca( anm ?donetary (Poticies, the main o6jective of
the Government is to ensure macroeconomic sta6ifity, eeping inflation in a
singre figit, whife fostenng  the e;pansion of dfomestic credit and
maintaining a competitive exchange rate, as weff as to reduce the fiscaf
deficit through a more vigorous mo6ifisation of domestic revenue.
(Pu6tic Sector Management
8. On the fieM of pu6lic sector management the ongoing refonns are 6eing
imptemented to improve effectiveness and transparency in using pu6Gic
resources, and to enhance capacity 6uiifing at the pu6lic administration in
order to increase efficiency mainty in the areas that are relevant to facilitate
private sector activities.
9. q'u6tic E.penditure Wview   ((PE) and improvement of 6udgetaty
coverage. The government continues taking measures to improve 6udgetary
coverage, transparency and accountabifity of the 6uwgetary process,
inc(uding 6y reporting the use of donorfunds and the own receipts coffected
in each institution, to 6e recorded 6y aff the ministries. In this regard, the
(Pu6[ic 5Management (Pfview has 6een compketed and the WMinistry of
(fanning and 0inance started o6taining,for each sector, the totaf amounts
of receipts coffectedin order to start incorporating projections of the so catted
receitas pr6priasfrom 2003 6ufget p[ans. Folkwing the promufgation of the
pub6ic management law in tFe6ruary 2002, the reforms imptemented are: (i)
the introduction of a new and more aetaifed functional expenditure
c(assifier, which facifitates monitoring of priority expenditures; (ii) the
adoption of new procedures to 6roaden the coverage of 6udget e.tecution
reports to incorporate alf externa(financedpu6lic projects andprograms; (iii)
the issue of a ministeriat circufar (despacho ministeria9 to strengthen the
coordination unit (VTMTFE) and esta6bish a steering committee of deputy
directors in the Winistry. Tlie secondphase of the PDtE is underwayfocusing
on the sectors heafth, education, water, roads, agricufture anm expenditure
tracking survey.
3



- 46 -                          Annex 6
Page 4 of 11
1laJudk2ciaa andLega(Sector 'The Govemnment is committedto a process of a
comprehensive iegalt andjudiciat reform, through the Integrated Strategy
cPfan for judiciat and Legal Sector for the period 2002-2006. cBoth the
Integrated Strategy zPfan - in draft - an! theefinal ptan of W inistry of
yustice were prepared 'The remaining individuat three sectora( ptans for the
Supreme Court, tfield:ministrative Court and theiAttorney Generaf wit b6e
in fraft 6y end-June 2002 andfInatized6y end-Septem6er 2002. J4partfiwn
the strategic pfans, other initiatives are under way. i) a money faundkting
faw which has recentty 6een approved 6y 'Paritament; anm ii) a new
commerciaf code has 6een su6mitted to (Partiament. qhe Legal andjudicia(
Co-ordinating (Board (Consetho de Coordenaf do de Legatidade e Justifa), in
which aff the a6avementionedfour su6-sectors are represented, wiff adopt
the Strategic Integrated (Pan, and the three su6-sectors wiff have adopted
their respective strategic pfans. At the same time a specific change in the
[otanat Code was approved 6y Ca6inet fast [arch 26, in order to permit
simplification anm speed in the procedures for NAotarial fRgistration,
assuming the importance of thisfor the 6usiness environment.
(Private sector deveropment
11. wRecognising the important rofe of the private sector in promoting
economic growth am! emptoyment, the Government polwcies anm reforms wiff
improve the 6usiness environment to the devetopment of private sector
activities, anmreinforce the rote of the market in the economy. In this regard;
the Government wift continue to graduaffy reduce its direct participation in
the commerciaf 6anks - attowing the Centrat Bank to strengthening its 6ank
supervision, authorty - as wefT as to increase li6erafization in important
sectors, particutarfy energy, tefecommunications andair transport.
FinanciatSector
12. qTie Government of [ozambique is determined to continue with its
financial sector reforms to maintain macroeconomic 6afances and avoid any
future pu6lic tosses arising out of pro6bems within thefinanciat institutions.
Both the Government anm the (Bank of [Mozam6ique are committed to
strengthen andenhance the status of the Banking Supervision (Department.
/i~~



47 -                              Annex 6
Page 5 of 11
In this regard, in (Decem6er 2001, the 'Bank Supenrsion (Department
(aunched a Circutar Letter imposing the o6servance of Internationat
,4ccounting Standardis m6ks as weff as the Internationat Standards of
Auditing  within the financial sector.  This measure facilitates the
imptementation of the e*sting Accounting (Panfor Credit Institutions ant
otherfinancia[institutions.
13. The devehopment of financiaf sector demands a strong 6ankt:ng
supervision anman atequate regufatoryframework 6oth for 6ank aninon-
6ank4financialinstitutions. In this regard, steps were taken in the regulatory
areas as to: i) approvaf of the "aviso" of correlatedcredit; ii) approvafof the
"aviso" with runes on consohitdated supervision; iii) approvat of the decree on
e,tternaf auditors of the credit institutions; iv) raunching of the 'aviso' on
minimum capitaffor 6anks, which adjusted the requirements taking into
account not onfy the rea(va(ue of the minimum capitaf imposed; 6ut also the
presentfinanciafmarket conditions; v) modernization of the farge non-6ank
financiaf institutions, specificaffy I!KSS - the tenter documentsfor sefection
of consuttants for actuana(vafuation have 6een faunched, and this process
wiff 6efinafisedsoon in fMay 2002 - and EfOSE - where Erntst eZ Young
has 6een contracted to prepare the company's accounts to 6e audited in
accordiance with the internationafstandards; vi) dissemination of the rofe of
'BankSupervision Department as the unit accounte at the Centraf (Bank
mantatet with the impfementation anm enforcement of the 6anking faw.
14. Bank*icensingprocedfures. It is the Govemnment objective to 6ecome cLear
within the 6usiness community that licensing of 6anks is a process 6aset
mainfy on technicaf ant fegaffactors, therefore, it was agreet that onLy the
proposaLs consideret eigi6fe 6e sent 6y. Banco te  dofam6ique to the
fMinistry of TFinanceforapprovatpurposes.
15. Technicat Assistance for the (Bank Supervision (Department (DSB)
Banco te WMofambique is receiving technical assistance on 6anking
supervision from the I9WM. In atdition, (DS(B is participating in a pifot IT
training an  harmonisation project of ESAXF/SA(DC, 6asetion (Pretoria, at
the South Africa q?eserve (Bank to enhance its data manipufation anm
5



- 48 -                              Annex 6
Page 6 of 11
anafyticat capa6ifities. q&;S gCtQns udff continue turing the course of
fEgPSO.
16. tFinanciaf management/fiduciary issues. The Government has 6een
making tfiefot&wing progress infinanciatmanagement andfiduciary issues:
i) the newfinancial management faw has 6een su6mittet to cParfiamentfor
approvaf in novem6er 2001; ii) an action ptan has 6een developet to 6ring
aft ministeriatown receipts into the 6udget; iii) the process of cleaning up the
Treasure accounts at the 6anking system is ongoing, so that, up to now, the
survey has 6een initiatet ant aff accounts have 6een uistet until 1999, ant
for 2002 e(xercise it was agreed that aff the accounts heft 6y the
Governmentaf entities have to 6e co-signet6y the Treasure, which is atowet
to access to the respective 6atances and reports; iv) during the course of the
£E5w(PSo, the Government wivf support the process of esta6tishment of a
professionaf 6oty of accounts; antv) in the conte.0 of the CTFA  ant(PE£?>
action ptans, the rote of the Tri6unatAtministrativo ant Inspecfdo Gera[te
,Finanfas wiff 6e strengthened
17. Comptetion of Sate of (Banco Austraf The Government ant the
Amargamatet (Banks of South Africa (ABSA) have conctudet the
negotiations for the safe of (Banco Austrat ant A(BSa has o6tainet the
approvaf of the 6ank supervisory authorities of South Africa. lihe parties
have now concfutet the futfitment of the conditions precedent ant the
cBancoAustrathas now 6een taken over 6y,ABSA (Bank In addition to this,
the Government, in Itne with its strategy on te6t coffection of Juty 2001 witf
er,ercise its option, unter the Safe ant(Purchase Agreement, to purchase ant
su6sequentty cottect on loans which are fulfy provisionetfor ant which can
not 6e recoveret 6yy ABSA, using the Ce;cecuscoesfiscais ') whenever neeted
'This part of the cottection process 6y the Government is e;pectet to start 6y
midt lay once the ongoing review process of the toan portfotio has 6een
compteted The outcome of the cottection effort wilf 6e recortet in the
quarterty 6udget eXpecution report starting with the secondtquarter of 2002.
18. Comptetion of the 9Werger of (BC9 antd I9. 'The merger of (BC21 ant
(BIgl has 6een comptetet 6y officiatfy registering the merget company on
Wovem6er 2001. The merget entity is now using the name (BI98. Accordtng



- 49 -                              Annex 6
Page 7 of 11
to the avaifa6fe fata, JBI9M needs to 6e re-capitauised, mainfy due to a
shortfaff of resources for its intemat pension fund mechanism. which was
not adequatery provided6efore the merger.
19. Strategy of the Government conceming withdrawatfrom B819. 'The
Government intends to reduce its share in (B194 to zero. as soon as it is
feasi6le, there6y continuing to give concrete signars to its announced
intention. ffowever, taking into consideration the size andgreat impact of
BI9 in thefinanciat sector, it is crucia(for the Government to assure that
this 6an& compty with the e)csting regulation concerning capitaf adequacy
and other prumentiaf requirements in the shortest possi6fe time, so as to
ensure the soundness of the financiar system as welT as to enhance the
credi6ibity of the banksupervision authority. 'Under these circumstances, the
Government shaff have to make a limited contri6ution    to the re-
capitalization of BI919, not e(ceeding its share of a6out 23% and the 2002
6ubgeted amount. Nevertheress, the Government inteids to make it cdear
that its intention to withdraw compietefy from the 6ankis stifTongoing. If
the Government contri6utes to the further re-capitalization of B8IX, it wiff
6e accompanied 6y thefoffwing measures:
a) An undertaking that the re-capitaitzation wif not taJe the form of
equity participation,
6) (Preparation, 6y BI19, of its 6usiness plan - incfuding a monitor a6re
de6t coffection program - which demonstrates how the current 6w
commercial via6ifity and the pnrdentiaf ratios refated to (arge
exposures wiff 6e improved;
c) In the Generafassembfy of the shareho(ers heMd on the second of
fMay, the Government announced its withdrawal qThe Government
intends to seff its remaining shares to pu6fic as soon as the 6ank
attains a sta6fe and profita66e position. Mence, in case of need of
further re-capitalization in the said period, namely apart from that
one identifiedup to now (VS$ 44.0 mition,) the Government u4ITnot
participate;
Rff, 7



-50 -                               Annex 6
Page 8 of 11
d) Appointment of a specialist or a group of e;perts to assess the reasons
wily the former 'BCM made senous financia( r6sses, examinig the
procedures in credit and othter risk management practices. If
wrongdoing isfound, the resukting report witt 6e sent to the -Attorney
Generaf
20. 9§rj6a6ility of tile information provided 6y 6ans. 'The BankSuper'ision
issued a Circufar Letter requiring that the accounting information monthty
sent 6y each commerciat 6ank. 6e sined 6y competent managers previousfy
registeredat the Centra (Bank
21. (Preventing 6ad commerciaf 6ankJs management and inadequate
regufation. In order to prevent 6ad commerciaf 6ank.s management and to
improve the financiat sector regutatory framework< and once operationaf
sta6ifity has 6een attained in (Banco Austrat (iBau), the Govemnment wiff
appoint a speciatist orgroup of experts with the mandate of looking into the
(Banco ,Justrafformer management so as to cover the folrowing areas: (i)
internaf procedures and regu(ation, (ii) internaf contro4- (iii) risk
management. q'he resuf(ting report wiff be made availabte to the Centraf
Bank to hetp it in improving thefinancia(sector reguration standards. Even
though, tf wrongdoing is found, the report wii( be sent to the _Attorney
GeneraL
22. Enforcing and maintaining pnudentiaf rufes and regutations compfiance.
7he Centraf Bank takes the 6anking supervigion functions as one of the
cniciat areas to be continuousfy improved; strengthening capacity 6uiding
and reinforcing the rote of (DS(B within the 6anking system to ensure the
observance of prudentiat rures and regufations. In accordance with thie
e*sting routines and 6ased on the accounts of end-June, prepared under its
Circufar Letter 15/2001  on internationaf auditing  and accounting
standards, (Banco de 9Mofambique wiftfist the 6anks that are non-comptiant
in respect of auditing and accounting standards, capitat adequacy, nsk
concentration, reserve and any ltquidity requirement, foreign e.fchange
exposure contros, fiCed assets and equity participation ratios, and send to
tlem tetters specfying a timetabtefor corrective measures. It is an ongoing



-51-                                Annex 6
Page 9 of 11
practice that the quarterfy reports from )DStB incorporate a chapter covering
the issue on compfiance of pnwfentialregufations.
sEnergy Sector T'oricies
23. In the contex4 of reforms in the energy sector, the government has signed
an agreement with IEC to act as investment adviserfor the restructuring of
P£ETq05OC. The study referent to restructuring of (PETR09MOC uwth the
assistance of ITC startedin TFe6ruary 2002, the resulting report wift 6e made
avaifa6fe 6y mid June 2002. The Government wif adopt a restructuring
strategy basedon the recommendedoptions.
Tefecommunications and qosta(
24. The ongoing Communication Sector qZRform aims at: (i) promoting
tefecommunications infrastructure devefopment as part of the sociat and
economic devefopment program in Wlozam6ique; (ii) promoting universaf
access to telecommunication services andits increaseddensity; (iii) stimufate
private investment in the devefopment of the telecommunications sector and
ensure competition in the provision of tefecommunications services; (iv)
promote access to new and state-of-the-art information technofogies; (v)
promote 6etter and relra6re postal services; and (vi) promote prvate
investment postaf services through the esta6lishment of partnerships. In this
regard the Ca6inet approveda new tefecommunications pofiuy on Octo6er30,
2001; and a fegaf amendment withdrawing ID9W1 s monopory on fong-
distance telephony was recent6y approved 6y the Parliament. A  6idding
process is now underway to award a second GSM license. A tender was a&o
launched to serect a consuftant to advise on the privatisation of TOY. The
Ca6inet is afso going to su6mit to the (Parliament this year a
tefecommunications faw reflecting the a6ovementionednew sectora(policy.
0/ 9



- 52 -                      Annex 6
Page 10 of 11
Air Transport
25. flie Ca6inet approvede the new Air Transport (Po(iScy in Octo6er 2001,
this wilTatfow the i,mpementation of fI6erafization in the sector andprivate
sector entry in air services and infrastructure. A (Decree empowering the
Instituto de -AJviafdo Civit de rMo,am6ique (IA C5 ) to oversee sector
regulation has 6een approve((Decree 41/2001 of 11 (Decem6er 2001) IACYd
wiff exercise the rote of the civil aviation technical and economic regufator,
app(ying  the poficy, overseeing  the sector, enforcing  the country's
regutations, anm  updating the specific regurations in order to keep the
95Mozam6ican civif aviation in tine with the deve(opments of the sector
wor(dwide. In this context and through the PF(P- Air Transport UR.pgufation
an invitationfor selection of advisory serrvices to IAC2I has 6een sent to the
short-tisted consuftants. It is expected that the process 6e compreted 6y next
June (the deaaZine for receiving the technica(andfinanciarproposaf is 9day
24, 2001) ThIe review process a!n approvaf of a (Decree on the licensing of
air transport and 6usiness as welTas the selling of air traffic documents wilT
6e concrtufef6y the endofg pri(002. Su6sequently, the authorities wilT set
up fegisration to imptement the air transport fi6erafiisation ((icensing, pnrcing,
provision of sociaf routes andminimum services). (rivate sector participation
in the management anm ownership of the NationalAirline (LA9W) wiff 6e
impGemented during the seconm part of 2002 to affow the company joining
the group of airlines performing undfer a g(o6a(market.
q;P-gufatoryframeworkunder the privatisation process.
26. 'The process of pnivatisation within the secondgeneration of stnucturar
refonns in 9dozam6ique wiff take place in accordfance with principtes, rufes
anm  mechanisms esta6Gished 6y Law   15/91 (Lei da P&struturafdo das
'Empresas do Estafqo), the respective reguCation anm other refevant exsting
(egistation unmer which transparency anmcompetitiveness are guaranteed:
10



-53 -                        Annex 6
Page 11 of 11
Concfision
27. qie govemment remains committed to its overaLT o6jective of poverty
reduction through sustaina6(e economic growti The recently approved
.P.4I.,4 wiff pay a crucia( ro1e in transforming this o6jective into a reality.
qhe economic reforms program, as tescri6eda6ove, uiff 6e an important part
of this strategy. It is, therefore, the Giowernment's hope that I)DA wifgrant
the requestedCredit to assist in the imptementation of the proposedprogram
of reforms aimedto reduce poverty in 2lozam6ique in the meduum term.
Yours Sincerery,
Wr. Wb, lk°8
LVfSA DIgS DIOGO
1 IUCIS TE R OF (PLA AW  XG   D q, AFINgA C E















IMAGING
Report No.: P       7553    MOZ
Type:       r



