E538
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOR
OPERATION (EMPSO)
ENVIRONMENTAL PRE-AUDIT OF PETROMOC AND
SELECTION OF FACILITIES FOR AUDITS
SUBMITTED TO
THE
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
AND
THE WORLD BANK
August 6, 2001
FILE COPY



Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .......................................................1
A. BACKGROUND .......................................................1
B. KEY PRE-AUDIT FINDINGS ............1...........................................
C. RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................................2
I. INTRODUCTION, OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF WORK ................................                                3
A. INTRODUCTION            ......................................................3
B. LISTINGS ......................................................3
C. BACKGROUND ......................................................3
D. OBJECTIVES OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PRE-AUDIT ...........................................4
E. SCOPE OF WORK ......................................................4
11. ENVIRONMENTAL                 SETTINGS ......................................................5
A. INITIAL CONDITIONS ......................................................5
B. ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS ...............6.......................................6
III. RANKING .......................................................6
A. THE ENVIRONMENT PRE-AUDIT EVALUATION CRITERIA ................                               .................6
B. RATING COMPONENTS ......................................................7
C. WEIGHTING COMPONENTS .......................................................7
D. RESULTS OF RANKINGS .......................................................8
IV. SECTORAL ANALYSIS .......................................................9
V. KEY      PRE-AUDIT FINDINGS .......................................................9
A. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION                 OF THE PETROMOC COMPLEXES ..............................9
B. BUNKERING FACILITIES ...........                 ..............          ............................. 10
D. THE MATOLA FACILITY .......................................................11
E. RETAIL OUTLETS (SERVICE STATIONS) ......................................................                12
F. AUDIT ACTION PLAN ...................................................... 12
G. DECOMMISSIONING ......................................................                                 13
VI. STATUTORY             FRAMEWORK ......................................................                   14
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................................                                  14
VIII. COST ESTIMATES OF AUDITS ......................................................                        17



LIST OF ACRONYMS
BOD          Biological Oxygen Demand
COD          Carbon Oxidation Demand
C02          Carbon Dioxide
CO           Carbon Monoxide
DP           Decommissioning Plan
EAT          Environmental Audit Team
EET          Environmental Evaluation Team
EIA/S        Environmental Impact Assessment or Statement
EMP/S        Environmental Management Plan/System
GIS          Geographical Information System
GOM          Government of Mozambique
IDA          International Development Agency
ISO          International Standards Organization
MICOA        Ministry of the Environment
MP           Monitoring Protocol
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
N02          Nitrous Oxide; Nitrogen Dioxide
ODC          Other Direct Costs
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PCD          Project Concept Document
PE           Public Enterprise
PPD/E        Personal Protection Device/Equipment
PPM          Parts Per Million
PETROMOC Mocambique Petroleum Company
RAP          Resettlement Action Plan
S02          Sulfur Dioxide
TAM          Turn-Around Maintenance
TOR          Terms of Reference
TTL          Task Team Leader
USEPA        United States Environmental Protection Agency
VOC          Volatile Organic Compounds
WB           The World Bank
WHO          The World Health Organization



ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Consultant wishes to express his gratitude to Mr. Casimiro Francisco, the Managing
Director of PETROMOC, and to the staff of the Facility at Matola, in particular Ms.
Jorgino Francisco Manhangane, Mr. Cesar Maoze, Mr. Luis Hana Geraldes and Mr. Jose
Manhique for the time they spent with the Consultant in spite of their pressing tasks, the
documents furnished as well as the visit to the sites.
Editing work was done by Ligia Murphy. The task managers were Peter G. Moll on the
Bank side and Marcelo Lessa on the IFC side. The Senior Environmental Specialist is
Mr. Serigne Omar Fye. The Sector Manager (Macroeconomics I) is Philippe Le
Houerou. The Country Director is Darius Mans.



-1-
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
A. BACKGROUND
1.    PETROMOC comprises:
three (3) big facilities at Matola, Beira and Nacala with refinery, defunct
since 1984 in the Matola complex. Capacity at the time was 17,000
barrels a day,
five (5) smaller units for small ships.
All eight (8) units have bunkering facilities, pipelines, storage and
distribution systems and safety equipment (fire-fighting).
Gas storage tanks fed by gas tanks using a rail system and pipe distribution
to a retailer were also installed in Matola.
In addition PETROMOC had
three hundred and twenty retail outlets with automatic pumping systems,
one hundred and seventeen (117) hand-pumped retail outlets,
19 depots.
B. KEY PRE-AUDIT FINDINGS
2.    Apart from decommissioning of
a)    the refinery at Matola and the associated cooling towers,
b)    two (2) cannibalized 600 kw generators and replacement of the water
tower for fire fighting, the main concerns were
-     the impacts of plumes below the refinery, storage and distribution tanks,
and retail outlets on soils and the aquifers which were never monitored,
-     the efficiency of the oil/water separators at the eight complexes cited
above, as the composition of the mixtures was not known before entry and
exit from the separators, and hence the composition of the water effluent
discharged into the river systems was not known,
-     the disposal of the solid waste (including some toxic waste) found
throughout the yards, depots and retail outlets,
-     the impact of the recent floods on PETROMOC facilities and
contamination from air/water mixtures emanating from these,
-     gas distribution safeguards and pipeline monitoring in general for all
hydrocarbons,
-     cool loading facility at the entrance to the MAT Barkein



-2-
C. RECOMMENDATIONS
a)    A full audit is required for the three main and five smaller facilities as well as
partial audits for at least 20 representative retail outlets and a representative
sample of the 19 depots.
b)    The audit will lay emphasis on:
* following the plumes below the refinery and around storage and distribution
tanks,
* assessments of the efficiency of the separators at all facilities,
* assessments of the health and safety measures for all hydrocarbons including the
coal facility at the Matola bunkering site
* assessments of the efficiency of all separators at the facilities,
* assessment of the health and safety measures for all hydrocarbons including the
coal facility at the Matola bunkering facility
* on EMP and monitoring as well as the capacity of PETROMOC to carry these
out.
* Total cost of Audit $594,600 to $894,600.



-3-
I. INTRODUCTION, OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF WORK
A. INTRODUCTION
3.    The World Bank, in an effort to assist several countries in Africa, has embarked
on a partnership with these in order to formulate a rational program for the privatization
of certain key enterprises within the framework of several support projects in agreement
with the Governments. In this case, the Government of Mozambique has agreed with the
World Bank on the privatization of PETROMOC, the Mozambique Petroleum company.
In order to sustain the performance of this enterprise and to establish liabilities before
divestiture, the potential partners have agreed on a certain number of actions to be taken,
one of which is the environmental pre-audit of the enterprise.
4.    In this connection, the Govermnent has asked the International Finance
Corporation and the World Bank to pilot the process.
B. LISTINGS
5.    The Enterprise retained for this pre- audit is:
PETROMOC-The Mozambique Petroleum Company.
6.    At this time, there is information available only with regard to the PETROMOC
refinery in Maputo. A pre-audit will provide a better understanding of the status of
facilities in other parts of the country.
C. BACKGROUND
7.    The facility in Maputo was built in the 1 960s, but refining operations were
discontinued in 1984. The refinery site, which includes approximately 70 bulk storage
tanks, is now used solely as PETROMOC's main distribution center. Products storage on
the site include various types and grades of fuel, asphalt, bitumen, and natural gas.
Several private oil companies (i.e. BP, Mobil, Total, Engen, Shell) store products in
PETROMOC's storage tanks. Several of the major oil companies also have their own
facilities, including bulk storage tanks, in the area around PETROMOC's premises.
8.    The premises cover about 5 hectares. Very little maintenance has been conducted
on the refinery since it ceased operating. All of the refinery's tanks, equipment, pipe
works and pumps are badly rusted. The rest of the property is still operational, and the
storage tanks, pipe work, pumping stations and other equipment appear to be fairly well
maintained.
9.    About two years ago, the Ministry of Environment (MICOA) conducted an
investigation of oil storage facilities in the area, including PETROMOC, after oil was
observed in the Maputo port. The source of the oil was never determined. As a result of



-4-
this incident, MICOA and the oil companies initiated a program to improve the
maintenance and monitoring of the pipeline from the port (about 3 km in length) and
facility drainage systems. PETROMOC is currently developing a series of recommended
practices to improve its environmental management and monitoring and efforts in these
areas.
D. OBJECTIVES OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PRE-AUDIT
10.   According to the terms of reference of the work, the purpose of environmental
pre-audit will be to:
X  carry out a pre-audit of a representative number of the facilities of PETROMOC,
including selected petrol stations located in peri-urban areas, and to develop a
ranking to determine which types of facilities will need a full, partial, or no
environmental audit or environmental assessment before divestiture;
X determine the potential liabilities of the facilities and rank them in order of
priority of full audit, partial audit, and no audit required;
*  measure the environmental conditions of the facilities against risk of being held
responsible for damages after divestiture;
* use this baseline information to assist the Borrower in preparing guidelines which
will ensure that, as the divestiture proceeds, the necessary audits will be
undertaken according to the ranking study; the guidelines should facilitate the
determination of the environmental liabilities of PETROMOC as well as audit
studies needed for future divestiture in the petroleum sector;
* review the national legislative framework to ascertain whether the Government or
the new private investors will be legally responsible for clean-up measures.
E. SCOPE OF WORK
11.   According to the terms of reference of the work, the environmental pre-audit will
be conducted as follows:
*  There will be initial briefing meetings between the consultant, the management
and relevant staff at the facilities of PETROMOC, as well as with relevant
Government representatives.
*  With the assistance of PETROMOC the consultant will (a) gather and review all
existing relevant in-house documentation, including compliance records; (b) study
available historical information; and (c) perform visual inspections of
representative sites to help determine pre-existing liabilities and to help in the
ranking of the facilities. The consultant will contact the IFC Environmental
Specialist (located normally in Harare) and work with the Specialist during the
latter's visit to Maputo for this purpose.



-5-
*  The consultant will visit areas where practices of waste management, storage and
use of dangerous substances may have caused contamination, and/or damage to
human health and the environment.
*  The consultant will prepare assess hazards or risks for local communities and the
adequacy of procedures for warning and emergency responses.
* The consultant will prepare a prioritized list (i.e. high, medium, low) of concerns
related to past activities;
* The consultant will prepare a prioritized list (i.e. high, medium, low) of concerns
related to ongoing activities.
*  The consultant will review the capacity of the Government of Mozambique as
well as the national environment agency to enforce the regulation and execute the
remediation action plans.
* Based on these reviews and assessments, the consultant will rank the facilities
according to their potential environmental liabilities and requirements for full.
Partial or no environmental audit / assessment prior to divestiture.
*  The consultant will prepare guidelines which will enable the institution
responsible for divestiture to determine the environmental requirements for future
divestiture in the petroleum sector.
II. ENVIRONMENTAL SETTINGS
A. INITIAL CONDITIONS
12.   Mozambique is situated in the south-east corner of Africa bordered by Tanzania,
Malawi, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Swaziland and South Africa. The country is divided into 1O
provinces, with a total population of about 17 million and a surface area of about 800,000
sq. KM.
13.   The topography of the country is dome-like from north to south rising from 1219
meters in the north to the high points of 2419, 2095 and 2436 meters dropping to the
Inhambane depression at 238 meters and rising to 801 meters at Maputo.
14.   There was no time to examine the morphology of the different regions which bear
on the operations of PETROMOC.
15.   Average temperatures and rainfall follow the same patterns with the former from
highs of 26°c in Jan - Feb to as low as 14°c in June/July and the latter from 3000 mm to
about 100 mm during the same periods respectively.



-6-
B. ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
16.   The major concern relates to the effects of the hydrography of the country with
drainage of several major rivers of the east and southern African regions and the
consequences of the absence of a coherent environmental management plan.
17.   In the absence of a protection plan, the floods could have major economic, health
and social impacts.
18.   The consultant assumed that the major concern of the Mocambique authorities
remains the flooding problems and the impacts these have on the economic, health and
social structures. Any impacts on the sectors presently being pre-audited of the flooding
problems would be relatively insignificant compared to the larger issues. The issues
addressed in the pre-audit are really those that should be dealt with for the purposes of
contingent liabilities, subsequent monitoring and compliance.
19.   The concerns as regards PETROMOC were essentially:
* plume monitoring and management,
* the effect of the floods on the plumes and subsequent contamination of the aquatic
environment,
* the effects of oil/water mixtures on the physical and aquatic environment
especially and again during the floods.
III. RANKING
20.   The ranking process applied in this assessment involves the qualitative estimation
of the potential risks and /or hazards due to activities at the Facilities.
21.   An adequate characterization of risks and hazards at a potentially contaminated
site allows for a comprehensive (full) environmental audit to be performed during which
the site remediation process can be better focused, and clean-up criteria can be developed
based on the 'acceptable' level of risks to potential receptors . Furthernore, during the
comprehensive audits the greatest risk can be identified and the site mitigation measures
selected to address those issues.
22.   The ranking procedure was similar to the scoring using the DRASTIC index
(Atobrah, 1990; Atobrah and Others, 1989), and was based on risk characterization of
hazardous wastes (Asante - Duah, 1993; Asante - Duah and Others, 1996). The ranking
approach provided indication on whether the site was located in a generally sensitive or
vulnerable area and has a significant pollution to the environment.
A. THE ENVIRONMENT PRE-AUDIT EVALUATION CRITERIA
23.   The facilities of the enterprises were assigned scores on the basis of the Audit
Index Factors (AIF) developed for the various sites. The AIF is a, degree of pollution
potential for a facility by which assessment for comprehensive audits can be determined.
The criteria considered to have little impact on the environment were ranked by assigning



-7-
the lowest score of one (1), and the criteria with significant impact on the environment
were assigned the highest score of one (10). The scores for each facility were then
summed and the site with the highest score assigned the most likely site to have full audit
to be undertaken.
B. RATING COMPONENTS
24.   The rating components for evaluating and characterizing the audit potential of a
site were as follows:
(a)   Type of Enterprise (i.e. activities at facilities and sites)
(b)   Emissions and Air Quality
(c)   Waste water (i.e. impact on surface water and groundwater receptors)
(d)   Waste Oil and Spill Control Measures
(e)   Solid Waste
(f)   Noise
(g)   Occupational Health and Safety Issues
(h)   Environmental Management and Regulatory Framework
(i)   Capacity Building, Training and Awareness
25.   The audit evaluation factors were assigned rating components ranging from one
(1) to ten (10); with the least significant rated as 1 and the very significant rated as 10.
The Audit Factors were incorporated into a relative ranking scheme that used a
combination of weights and ratings to produce a numerical value called Audit Index.
C. WEIGHTING COMPONENTS
26.   The weighting was assessed on the overall affects on pollution potential for the
sites and facilities by considering the weighting components as follows:
(i)   Depth to water;
(ii)  Soil and aquifer media;
(iii)  Topography;
(iv)  Impact on land-use and planning;
(v)   Impact on wetlands and water bodies; and
(vi)  Impact on workers



-8-
27.    Each audit factor was assigned a relative weight ranging from one (1) to five (5);
the least significant with a weight of 1 and the very significant with a weight of 5. for
example, a rating component such as 'Air Emission' was assigned a weigh of 5 if the
impact to the environment was very significant and a weight of 1 if the impact to the
environment was of least significance.
28.    To obtain the number for each Audit Index Factor (AIF) that determines the
degree of the pollution potential, the weight was multiplied by the rating component. The
total of the product for individual Audit Factor gave the Audit Index for the facilities of
the PE.
29.    Based on the cumulative Audit Index Factors derived for the different sites, the
Facilities of the PE have been ranked into categories of those that required
comprehensive (full) audits, those that required partial audits and those that did not need
any audits to be undertaken at this moment.
30.    The rankings were categorized as follows:
* Facilities with Audit Index Factors of cumulative scores above 140 were
considered as high risk that would require comprehensive (full) audits;
*  Facilities with Audit Index Factors of cumulative scores ranging from 100 - 140
were considered as medium risk and would require partial audits;
*  Facilities with Audit index Factors of cumulative scores less than 100 were
considered as low risk and would required no audits.
D. RESULTS OF RANKINGS
(1). FACILITIES REQUIRING FULL A UDITS
The Complex at MATOLA-----------------------------------------------AIF--- 80
The facilities at Beira and Nacala----------------------------------------AIF--- 160
The five smaller bunkering and storage/distribution facilities-------AIF--- 142
(2) FACILITIES REQUIRING PARTIAL AUDIT
All Bunkering Facilities---------------------------------------------------------AIF--- 130
A representative sample of Retail Outlets/service stations----------------- AIF--- 128
A representative sample of the 19 Depots-------------------------------------AIF---120
(3) FACILITIES REQUIRING NO AUDIT
NIL.



-9-
IV. SECTORAL ANALYSIS
31.   The petroleum sector is one of the sectors that generates the most controversy as
far as the environment is concerned because of the scale and extent of pollution that
could occur.
32.   For both off- shore and inshore scenarios, the results of oil spills on the
environment have been catastrophic. Apart from the spills from a shipping disaster, a ship
loaded and going in to discharge at a bunkering facility generates concerns mainly at the
in-take facility. Where a ship however is going in to load finished products , it is on
ballast and numerous cases have been documented where ships have emptied its ballast
tanks off-shore or in-shore, the ballast material, usually a mixture of seawater and oil
products, have had devastating consequences on: marine life, beaches, ground-waters,
and rivers and riverine species.
33.   Apart from the above especially where the refinery is operational, the concerns
revolve around: emissions of green-house gases (C02, N02, S02); acidification; waste
oil/water mixture, inadequately separated and discharged into the marine, riverine, and
terrestrial environment; pipeline monitoring to pre-empt voluntary or involuntary
damage; plume management at refineries, storage and distribution facilities; and spill
management at these same facilities.
34.   Where oil wells are installed, the problems of the effects of: raw escaping gas and
gas flares have been the source of major conflicts in certain countries.
35.   The atmospheric pollution and the impacts of the emissions on the health of the
communities are now the subjects of liability issues in the international community.
V. KEY PRE-AUDIT FINDINGS
A. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE PETROMOC COMPLEXES
36.   PETROMOC has three main storage and primary distribution facilities at Matola,
Beira, and Nacala, the refinery at MATOLA, as stated earlier having been closed since
1984.
37.   The only denominator that is not common to all three and specific only to Matola
is the defunct refinery and its related cooling tower. Infrastructure/equipment common to
all three and also to the five smaller facilities for small ships are:
* bunkering facilities
* pipelines
* the storage tanks for kerosene, petrol, diesel and gasoline, gas(propane, butane)
asphalt, bitumen and slop tanks,
* the primary distribution tanks for the same,
* fire-fighting water storage tanks and



-10-
* pumps, compressors and generators.
38.   There is also a rail link for transportation of gas by containers to the Matola
complex and from there by pipeline transfer to a distribution company facility just
outside the Matola complex.
39.   Apart from these three main facilities, there are five (5) other smaller and similar
complexes for smaller ships as well as:
* One hundred and twenty (1 20) retail outlets (service stations)
* One hundred and seventeen (1 17) hand- pumped outlets
* 19 other depots.
40.   A first meeting was held at the head quarters of PETROMOC with the Managing
Director Mr. Casimiro Francisco. Present were Mr. Marcelo Lessa, Investment Officer,
Privatization and Financial Advisory Office, International Finance Corporation (IFC),
Washington; Ms. Robin Sandenburgh, Environmental Specialist, Southern Africa Region,
International Finance Corporation, Harare, Zimbabwe. The meeting was given an over-
view of:
* the facilities of the enterprise as described above,
* the operations of enterprise,
x the perspectives for the future.
41.   For the present, the decommissioning of the refinery is one of the major concerns
of PETROMOC.
42.   A second meeting took place at the PETROMOC offices in Matola combined
with a visit to the bunkering facility at the port, the complex in Matola in the presence of:
Mr. Luis Hana Geraldes, Director of Infrastructure, Mr. Cesar Maoze, Chief of Division
and Joseph Manhique, Operations Manager. The discussions centered on the facilities of
the enterprise in different parts of the country, the similitudes and differences in their
infrastructure and operations as well as issues on the environment of concern to them.
43.   The management conceded that it has very little historical data with regard to
their facilities and that a lot of the records would take a significant amount of time to
retrieve and put in order. Given the absence of the manager of the complexes and, the
paucity of managerial staff able to communicate and provide the relevant information and
documentation, it was agreed that these should be the subject of a full audit.
B. BUNKERING FACILITIES
44.   The Matola bunkering facility is 3 km from the complex. It is linked to the
complex by several pipes two of which belong to B.P. and the rest to PETROMOC. They
were however available for use by other petroleum companies. During the visit to the
site, the consultant observed a coal loading facility at the entrance to the pier comprising
an open conveyor belt and its drive equipment.



-11-
45.   The consultant found a widespread mat of coal dust strewn out over the
approaches to the pier. From information gathered, and during loading of ships, the dust
pervades the atmosphere around the bunkering facility. No protective equipment against
this dust was provided to personnel working the bunkering terminal. The health impacts
of this state of affairs is of concern to staff of PETROMOC. The historical and present
effects should, where possible, be evaluated even where these cannot be directly
attributed to PETROMOC.
46.   In this connection it is imperative to determine the dates of installation of both the
bunkering terminal and the coal conveyor equipment in order to determine possible
liabilities.
47.   A relatively small oil spill was found on the platform and which should have run
off or swept into the slop sump in place to be pumped, as with all slop to the slop tanks
at Matola.
For Health and Safety
48.   Apart from the health concerns cited above in regard to the coal loading facility,
no other health concerns could be discerned.
49.   As regards safety, the consultant noted the fire-fighting equipment (foam gun and
water canon) provided as well as the back-up electricity generating set.
50.   The pipes were all in good condition and called for no specific observations.
D. THE MATOLA FACILITY
51.   The key pre-audit findings were:
(a)   the absence of any plume monitoring at the refinery, and all
storage/distribution tanks including those of the retail outlets, the impacts on soils
and the aquifers can only be determined by drillings, sampling and analyses of
soils and water below or in the vicinity of the facilities.
(b)   there were no analyses of the effluent from the oil/water separator in the
facility to determine the quality of the effluent and the potential impacts on
aquatic species and ground-waters.
(c)   Oil spills at the intakes/outlets of the storage/distribution tanks were not
significant as these were collected for sale in the market as with the separated oil
cited above.
(d)   The gas, asphalt /bitumen tanks and their loading and conveyor did not appear
to pose any environmental concerns.



-12-
For Health and Safety
52.   All the tanks have both water and foam fire-fighting equipment installed with
foam guns directed into the tanks themselves. As regards health standards, the consultant
could not assess the level of monitoring of the personnel. The impression was that this
was on an ad hoc basis which needs to be reviewed and corrected. The audit should
examine into this aspect of the occupational health of the personnel of PETROMOC.
53.   The findings above can essentially be extrapolated to the two other large facilities
at Beira and Nacala as well as the five (5) smaller units for small ships.
E. RETAIL OUTLETS (SERVICE STATIONS)
54.   As stated earlier, there are 120 conventional stations and 117 hand-pumped
stations. For the latter the pre-audit was not able to make the distinction between those
stations where hand-pumping is from drums or from underground tanks, again because of
constraints on time and the pre-occupations of the PETROMOC staff. In either case this
does not preclude the need for partial audits of the retail outlets. As with the main
facilities, the main concerns are:
* plume monitoring and impacts on soils, aquifers and consequently on community
water supplies
* oil spills and oil/water mixtures especially at vehicle service bays,
* storm-water drainage from the stations,
*  safety standards at gas (butane) outlets at the stations.
55.   It was found that no plume monitoring was done, and that leakages through the
underground tanks could be assessed using a formula which essentially subtracts the dead
volume in tank, estimated evaporated volume and volume sold from the overall tank
volume after filling.
56.   With regard to oil spills and oil/water mixtures, it was found that pure oil was
recoVered for sale in the market, the oil/water mixtures were also recovered in sumps and
conveyed to the separators in the main complexes for treatment as cited earlier. The
conventional stations all have performing storm-water drainage systems and some, like
the SOLO station in Beira, are being improved in a program of rehabilitation of stations.
57.   Solid waste was stored in drums for subsequent collection and disposal by the
municipalities.
58.   A final meeting was held with Ms. Jorgina Francisco Manhengane, Director,
PETROMOC.
F. AUDIT ACTION PLAN
59.   The most significant risk factor, with the refinery now not operational is the
impact of all plumes on the soils, aquifers and the communities in the catchment areas of
the facilities.



-13-
60.   Any contamination of the soils and aquifers will impact negatively on agriculture,
potable water supplies, and the health of the communities in the vicinity.
61.   Any inadequately separated effluent from the oil/water mixtures risks
contaminating the aquatic environment with serious negative effects on aquatic life
(marine or riverine), and the health of the communities far beyond the immediate
surroundings of the facilities.
62.   As regards safety standards, the Consultant noted with satisfaction the fire-
fighting capability, transportation facilities of gas with the rail system in place, and the
storage tanks safety standards.
63.   The full audits should therefore concentrate on monitoring plumes. This should
be carried out below or around:
* the refinery (in this case from the center of the two units in Matola)
i all the storage and distribution tanks in Matola, Beira, Nacala and those at the five
(5) smaller facilities.
* at least two (2) retail outlets with underground tanks for each of the ten
provinces.
64.   The Consultant should examine geological, hydro-geological and morphological
maps, historical data on age of the stations and their proximity to communities in order to
determine the most representative outlets for this component of the audit, i.e. the sites
presenting the greatest contamination risks to the bio-physical environment.
65.   The Consultant should then drill sampling wells at each of the facilities cited
above taking soil and water samples as the drilling proceeds followed by analyses of
these, in particular for hydrocarbons, follow the plume outwards based on the results of
analysis of a benchmark or reference sample taken from a site well outside the catchment
area of any of the facilities.
66.   The Consultant should then prepare a map (in plan and cross-section) of the
plumes, assess the level and extent of contamination of the soils and the aquifers, and
assess the impact on communities.
67.   For the oil/water mixtures the Consultant should evaluate the efficiency of the
separators in use, carry out analyses of the effluent from the separators being discharged
into the river systems, and propose remedial measures where, in his or her view the
standard of separation presents major risks to the aquatic environment.
68.   The Consultant will assess with PETROMOC the scale of solid waste disposal
required at its facilities.
G. DECOMMISSIONING
69.   The most daunting task for PETROMOC, as surmnised during meetings is the
decommissioning of the refinery at the Matola complex, and of two 600 kw generators



-14-
presently unused and partially cannibalized. In addition the two cooling towers, which
are in an advanced state of decay, should be dismantled and disposed of. The water
tower for fire-fighting is in total disrepair and should be replaced.
VI. STATUTORY FRAMEWORK
70.   Three Meetings were held at MICOA to review the statutory framework in place
for Environmental Protection.
71.   The first meeting was held with Mr. Andre Da Silva, Head of the Legal
Department of MICOA. The discussions centered around the framework legislation
approved by Parliament in 1997. This framework document / legislation defines in nine
chapters and 34 articles a broad outline of the scope, content or dispositions to be put in
place by subsequent enabling acts, decrees and setting out:
* Environmental management organs at central and local levels.
* Environmental pollution, essentially pollution levels and standards.
* Special measures for protection of assets, bio-diversity zones and species and the
locations of infrastructures.
* Preventive measures for environmental damage, licensing and subsequent
auditing.
* The use of consultations, in particular.
* The diffusion of information.
* Awareness programs and education.
* Right of access to legal recourse and infractions at all levels of society for
potentially unfriendly programs / projects
* Liabilities emanating from such programs and projects and the infractions there-
off including insurance required as well as penalties to be encountered,
72.   The meeting dealt with issues related to, environmental management at sectoral
levels, including specific legislation related to these sectors of development as well as
post project / program auditing.
Pre-Audit findings
73.   Apart from EA requirements for some programs and projects in which
hydrocarbons and mining are excluded, none of the remaining enabling items of
legislation have been enacted. A certain number of enabling acts, decrees and other
specific legislation have been drafted but yet to be promulgated.
74.   MICOA or the Hydrocarbons Industry have yet to develop the capacity to
undertake the requisite pre-conditions for managing or regulating environmental
protection measures, although efforts are envisaged in this regard in the formation of
working groups with all the stakeholders in the petroleum industry.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
75.   Full audits should be carried out for the facilities at:



-15-
- Matola, Beira, Nacala,
- the five smaller units for smaller ships.
76.   Partial audits should be carried out:
- for a representative sample of twenty (20) service outlets with underground
tanks.
* An inspection of depots and other service outlets should be carried out to identify
any risks to the environment.
* The audit should propose guidelines for the working groups on the hydrocarbons
industry pending any legislation in this regard
* Decommissioning Plans: It is recommended that undertaking actual
decommissioning plans for each site must be evaluated and the costs be
determined during the comprehensive audits.
* Legal framework and contingent liabilities: it is recommended that, with the
hydrocarbons industry exempted from present legislation, any environmental
liabilities should be the subject of negotiations for any mitigation before
divestiture.
* Guidelines and environmental performance indicators: The Ministry of the
Environment (MICOA) must be responsible for determining and preparing
guidelines and environmental performance indicators which are measurable for
monitoring sites within the framework of the working groups cited earlier.
* It is recommended that PETROMOC maintain the network of wells constructed
for the audit to serve as permanent facility monitoring points for the plumes and
their evolution in close collaboration with MICOA, the petroleum working groups
and other stakeholders.
* Furthermore, it is recommended that the MICOA set up a monitoring and
accountability protocol that would require either monthly, quarterly or annual
reports with respect to addressing significant mitigation measures and meeting the
environmental management demands due to the activities and operations of the
petroleum industry. The monitoring protocol would require working in
partnership with the leading agencies, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, non-
governmental organizations NGOs), community-based organizations (CBOs), and
other relevant government institutions.
* Guidelines for Environmental Management in Divestiture: A "road map" or
guidelines will be proposed by the audit to be used by the Task Team and
MICOA to assist in supporting the integration of environmental management
within the privatization processes for PETROMOC.



-16-
*  Training: It is recommended that the Task Team, working closely with the
Ministry of the Environment (MICOA), should participate effectively in
providing training of the senior management of PETROMOC by providing "train
the trainers" programs in environmental management. The training could consist
of workshops or seminars, with the initial training provided by a qualified local
environmental management firm supported by international consultants. The
training should be part of the environmental audits for the privatization processes.
*  Environmental Management Systems/Plans : PETROMOC must have on its
premises a senior official responsible for environmental management activities,
and liaise with the MICOA on environmental laws and regulations pertaining to
the activities of the enterprise and participate in training and be part of the
capacity building for environmental management.
*  The senior official must coordinate and support the development of contingency
plans that link city/urban or peri-urban contingency plans with that of
PETROMOC. Furthermore, it is recommended that PETROMOC develop and
incorporate Environmental Management Systems/Plans (EMS/P) into its
management structure. The EMS/P must include elements such as:
(i)      Execution of Environmental Monitoring Programs for the enterprise;
(ii)     Knowledge and compliance with applicable environmental laws and
regulations;
(iii)    Conducting occasional drills to alert the staff and workers on how to
react and operate in case of emergencies;
(iv)     Conducting training and awareness programs as part of good
management practices while promoting capacity building within the
enterprise;
(v)      Developing the capacity to execute coherent sampling and monitoring
programs as part of remediation plans.



-17-
VIII. COST ESTIMATES OF AUDITS
(US Dollars)
One Hydro-geologist/Environmental Scientist (International) for eight
weeks @$650 per day                                                  36,000.00
Per Diem - eight weeks @$200 per day                                 11,200.00
One Environmentalist (local) for 16 weeks ( $250/day                 28,000.00
One air ticket (international Travel)                                12,000.00
Local Travel Costs                                                    5,000.00
Drillings and laboratory analyses                                500,000 to 800,000
Reporting Costs                                                       2,000.00
TOTAL COST                                                       594,600 to 894,6000



-18-
REFERENCES
Asante-Duah, D.K., (1993): Hazardous Waste Risk Assessment Lewis Publishers, Boca
Raton, USA., 384pp
Asante-Duah; D.K., D.M. Kargbo, and Kobina Atobrah (1996): How Clean is Clean?
Soil clean-up levels estimation for protection of groundwater quality.
A short course designed for every professional involved in risk assessment and/or making
risk-based decisions. KENCON ENVIRONMENTQL Inc., Philadelphia, PA.
Atobrah; Kobina and Malick John (2000): Environmental Pre-Audit of Enterprises,
Privatization and Private Sector Competitiveness Project in Kenya, Submitted to The
Privatization Unit, Ministry of Finance, Kenya and the World Bank, Washington, D.C.,
52pp, Nigeria, Madagascar, Seychelles.
Cahill, L.B. (1996): Environmental Audits, Government Institutes, 7th Edition, Rockville,
Maryland, 727pp
Federal Republic of Nigeria: National Telecommunications Policy, Ministry of
Communications, May 2000, 36pp
Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) of Nigeria: Environmental Impact
Assessment, Sectoral Guidelines for Agriculture and rural Development Project, 1999,
103pp
Federal Enviromnental Protection Agency (FEPA) of Nigeria: Environmental Impact
Assessment, Sectoral Guidelines for Oil and Gas Industry Projects, 1999, 75pp
Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) of Nigeria: National Guidelines for
Environmental Audit in Nigeria, 1999, 3 'pp
Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) of Nigeria: National Guidelines on
Environmental Management System in Nigeria, Decree 59 of 1992, amended by Decree
14 of 1999, 14pp



-19-
LIST OF PERSONS MET
1.    Mr. Casimiro Francisco
Managing Director - PETROMOC
2.     Ms. Jorgino Francisco Manhangane
Manager, Matola Facility
3.     Mr. Luis Hana Geraldes
Director of Infrastructure
4.     Mr. Cesar Maoze
Chief of Division
5.     Mr. Jose Manhique
Operations Manager



