Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3709 MOZ 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Economic Management and Private Sector Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 11, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3709 MOZ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated May 10, 
2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches 
as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), ith the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions),constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
Page  3
-
2
-
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“BM” means “
Banco de Moçambique
”, the Borrower’s central bank; 
(b) 
“Grupo BIM” means “
Banco Interna
cional de Moçambique” 
established 
pursuant to Decree No.54 dated November 9, 1994 and hereinafter named “banks”; 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(d) “EMOSE” 
means 
“
Empresa Moçambicana de Seguros
”
established pursuant to 
Decree No. 3, dated January 13, 1977; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(e) 
“First Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) of the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on 
January 1 and ending on December 31; 
(g) 
“Floating Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) of the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated to Category (2) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(h) “INSS” 
means 
“
Instituto Nacional de Segurança Nacional
”
established pursuant 
to Decree No. 17, dated December 27, 1988; 
(i) “LAM” 
means 
“
Linhas Aéreas de Moçambique
”
established pursuant to Decree 
No. 8, dated November 19, 1980; 
(j) 
“LDP” means the Letter of Development Policy referred to in Recital (A) of the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement; 
(k) “
Metical
”
means the Borrower’s currency; 
(l) 
“MPF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Finance; and 
(m) 
“Tranche” means any of the following: the First Tranche and the Floating 
Tranche. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ninety-six million and two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 96,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account 
in support of the Program. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent 
of SDR 48,100,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program;  
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association ; and  
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
taken.  
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall 
not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any 
part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Page  6
-
5
-
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2012 and ending May 15, 
2042. Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2022 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United  States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program 
and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
Page  8
-
7
-
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the A
ssociation’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Governor of the 
Banco de Moçambique  is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
Banco de Moçambique 
Departamento de Estrangeiro 
Maputo 
República de Moçambique 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 
  
 Facsimile: 
 
MOBANCO 
 
 
  
 258 
1 
422015/ 
428030 
 
6355/BMMO 
             
 
 
 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
            Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C.               64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By 
 
  /s/ 
Armando 
Panguene 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
 
/s/ Theodore O. Ahlers 
 
(Acting) Regional Vice President 
Africa 
Page  11
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
and Excluded Expenditures 
1. 
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table below 
sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account: 
 
Amount of the  
 
Credit Allocated 
% of the 
 (Expressed 
in 
Expenditures 
 Categories
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
First 
Tranche 
  48,100,000 
  100% 
 
(2) 
Floating 
Tranche  48,100,000 
  100% 
 
_________
TOTAL 96,200,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for purposes of Section 2.02 
(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the 
following expenditures: 
(a)  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
(b) 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
(c) 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United 
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor 
groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by 
notice to the Borrower: 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
(d) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
(e) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or 
import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party;  
(f) 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of 
any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations;  
(g) 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
3. 
Withdrawals may be made by the Borrower in respect of Category (2) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule at any time when the Association shall be satisfied after an exchange 
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association, that the actions described in Category (2) and Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
4. 
If after any of the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 3 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the actions taken under Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as the case may be, are not satisfactory and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall have not taken the actions under Schedule 2, as the case may be, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any 
part thereof. 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Borrower has obtained data on monthly receipts for 
Receitas Próprias 
(licenses, fees, taxes and other items) by public institutions, computed estimates for the 
year, and incorporated all such known estimates into fiscal year 2003 budget plans, as 
referred to in paragraph 9 of the LDP. 
2. 
The Borrower has reported donor-funded expenditures, using the new functional 
classification, as statistical annexes in the budget execution reports, starting with the 
report for the first quarter of the 2002 fiscal year, as referred to in paragraph 9 of the 
LDP.   
3. The 
final 
Strategic Integrated Plan for the Legal and Judicial Sector 2002-2006
 
has been approved by the Borrower’s legal and judicial coordinating board (
Conselho 
de Co
ordenação de Legalidade e Justiça
), in which all the Borrower’s four legal and 
judicial sub-sectors are represented (Ministry of Justice, Supreme Court, Administrative 
Court, and Attorney-General); and these sub-sectors have adopted their respective 
strategic plans, as referred to in paragraph 10 of the LDP. 
4. 
The Borrower has received the report by the specialist or advisory group that 
has assessed Grupo BIM, including deficiencies in its system of corporate governance 
and financial as well as operational risk management which led to extensive risk 
management failures, and has furnished such report to the Association, as referred to in 
paragraph 19 of the LDP; 
5. 
The Borrower has furnished to the Association a list of the Banks that have 
received letters from BM specifying their respective compliance or non-compliance 
with prudential regulations, in reference to the end-June 2002 accounts, duly prepared 
within international accounting and auditing standards. The referred list must indicate 
where the banks have not achieved full compliance with the prudential regulations, 
together with the confirmation that the Banco de Moçambique has taken appropriate 
corrective actions, as referred to in paragraph 22 of the LPD. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
6. 
The Borrower has completed (a) an independent audit of the 2001 EMOSE accounts, 
including an opinion on mathematical reserves, valuation of real estate holdings and other fixed 
assets, information systems and accounting standards; and (b) has initiated an independent 
actuarial analysis of INSS by the appointment of consultants, as referred to in paragraph 13 of 
the LDP. 
7. 
The Borrower has submitted to the National Assembly a telecommunications law 
reflecting the sector policy, satisfactory to the Association, and as referred to in paragraph 24 of 
the LDP. 
8. 
The Borrower has appointed the investment advisers for the privatization of 
LAM, as referred to in paragraph 25 of the LDP.
 
