                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                     Report No:31036

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-37090)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 96.2 MILLION (US$120 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                             TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                 MOZAMBIQUE

        FOR THE ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOR OPERATION

                                    (EMPSO)




                                December 29, 2004




PREM1
Africa Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective December 10, 2004)

                        Currency Unit = Mozambican Metical
                        Mt 19,376.63 = US$ 1
                                 US$ = SDR 1
                               MEASURES
                               Metric System
                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 to December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAu       Banco Austral
BCM       Banco Comercial de Moçambique
BCP       Banco Comercial de Portugal
BIM       Banco Internacional de Moçambique
BM        Banco de Moçambique, The Central Bank
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFM       Caminhos de Ferro de Moçambique (Mozambican Railways)
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Review
CG        Consultative Group
c.i.f.    cost, insurance, freight
DfID      Department for International Development (U.K.)
EDM       Electricidade de Moçambique
EMOSE     Empresa Moçambicana de Seguros (insurance firm)
EMPSO     Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
FAD       Fiscal Affairs Department of the IMF
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) of the IFC
FMIS      Financial Management Information System
f.o.b.    free on board
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
HIPC      Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
INSS      Instituto Nacional de Segurança Social
IT        Information Technology
LAM       Linhas Aéreas de Moçambique
MIGA      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MPF       Ministry of Planning and Finance
Mt        Meticais
PAF       Peformance Assessment Framework
PARPA     Programa de Acção para a Redução da Pobreza Absoluta (see PRSP)

PEMR        Public Expenditure Management Review
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PETROMOC    Empresa Nacional de Petróleos de Moçambique
PRGF        Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRO-AGRI    Agricultural Sector-Wide Program
PRSC        Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (see PARPA)
PSR         Project Status Report
QBER        Quarterly Budget Execution Report
SADC        Southern Africa Development Community
SISTAFE     Public Finance Management Information System
SME         Small and medium enterprises
STD         Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TA          technical assistance
TDM         Telecomunicações de Moçambique
TTL         Task Team Leader
WB          World Bank

                        Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                      Country Director:  Michael Baxter
                       Sector Manager:   Emmanuel Akpa
                          Team Leader:   A. Franco and J. L. Macamo

                                       MOZAMBIQUE
                                          MZ-EMPSO


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P049878                                                  Project Name: MZ-EMPSO
Team Leader: Antonio S. Franco                                       TL Unit: AFTP1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MZ-EMPSO                                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-37090
   Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (35%); General transportation
                            sector (25%); Banking (20%); Telecommunications (15%); Oil and
                            gas (5%)
                  Theme: Macroeconomic management (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Regulation and competition
                            policy (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (S)

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/05/2000                                     Effective: 10/09/2002
     Appraisal: 09/28/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/29/2002                                      Closing: 07/01/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Michael Baxter                                 Darius Mans
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Akpa                                  Philippe H. Le Houerou
Team Leader at ICR:             José Luís Macamo                               Peter Moll and Antonio Franco
ICR Primary Author:             José Luís Macamo

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of EMPSO was to support the Government's program to consolidate
macroeconomic stability and to lay the foundations for sustained private sector-led growth over
the medium term. To that end EMPSO aimed to contribute to: (i) supporting the implementation
of actions identified by the PARPA in the areas of public financial management and financial
sector supervision (including both banking and non-banking financial institutions) to reduce the
risk of financial crisis; (ii) improving macroeconomic stability as a prerequisite for sustaining
growth over the medium-term; (iii) improving the investment climate for the private sector; and to
(iv) laying the foundation for legal and judicial reform, both to sustain economic growth and also
to enable the sector to address key legal challenges of modern societies.

These objectives are relevant with respect to the Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for 2004-07 whose pillars are: (i) Improving the investment climate; (ii) Expanding service
delivery and (ii) Building public-sector capacity and accountability. During the consultative
discussions of the current CAS in August 2003, members of the Mozambican Cabinet reaffirmed
the strong alignment the CAS and Government priorities set by the PARPA and annual plans
(PES) and budget (OE).

The setting of these objectives took into consideration the macroeconomic performance of
Mozambique between 1996-2001. Mozambique's economic performance during these six years
(before the Economic Management and Private Sector EMPSO came into effectiveness in
October 2002), was quite impressive. GDP growth averaged 9 percent per year. Accumulated end
of the year inflation had decreased from 56.9 percentage in 1996 for three consecutive years to
one digit inflation rate (5.9, -1.3 and 4.8 percent) interrupted by the negative effects of the
devastating floods that took place in 2000 and 2001 corroborated by the impact of the banking
crises that began to emerge. Exports grew at an annual average rate of 20 percent and GNP per
capita increased by around seven percent annually in the period under consideration.

In order to consolidate these achievements mentioned above and guide its efforts to reduce
poverty, the Government of Mozambique approved a Five Year Program for 2000-2004 which
incorporated an interim Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (PARPA). This plan
was endorsed by the Bank and the Fund Boards in March 2000 as the country's interim PRSP. It
formed the basis for the preparation of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), (approved
in June 2000) as well as it set the ground for the preparation of the Government's poverty
reduction strategy articulated in the PARPA 2001-2005. The PARPA was completed in April
2001 and was endorsed by the Bank and the Fund Boards in August 2001 as the country's first
full PRSP allowing the country to achieve the Enhanced HIPC completion point.

The June 2000 CAS and the Government's Five Year Program adopted identical pillars: (i)
increasing economic opportunities through private sector led growth (ii) improving governance
and empowerment and (iii) increasing human capabilities. Equally harmonized were the CAS
performance indicators and targets to reflect the monitoring plan incorporated in the Program and
the PARPA. It was within this context of harmonization and creation of conditions for the
achievement of the objectives set in all these documents that the Economic Management and


                                                - 2 -

Private Sector Operation (EMPSO) was approved in August 2002 and came into effectiveness, as
mentioned, in October 2002.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The EMPSO primary objective was not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
For EMPSO to achieve its objectives it was agreed with the Borrower to coordinate the
implementation of a set of actions and reforms that had to be undertaken during the period
2002-2003. Since all of these actions were designed to lead directly to the second tranche
conditions, and took the form of plans to get to that point, it is not necessary to discuss them
separately in detail here. Suffice it so say that these preliminary actions were taken in time for
project effectiveness in August 2002. The key actions that triggered the release of the Second
Tranche can be summarized in the matrix below.

The relationship between the EMPSO Development objectives and the actions that were
implemented as required for the release of the Second Tranche can be summarized in the
following matrix:


Development objective             Second Tranche Conditions
A. Macroeconomic Stability         No conditions but the Borrower was expected to
                                   maintain overall PRGF targets
B. Public Sector Management        Budget Execution reports reflecting spending of Donor
                                   funds starting with 2002 Q1
                                   Incorporate projections of ministerial own receipts
                                   (receitas próprias) in 2003 Budget Plans
C. Legal and Judicial Reform      Strategic Integrated Plan for the Legal and Judicial
                                  Sector 2002-2006 approved
D. Private Sector Developmnet     Assessment of BIM completed
                                   Bank compliance with prudential rules enforced
                                   Audit of 2001 accounts of EMOSE completed and
                                   actuarial analysis of INSS initiated
                                   Telecommunications law submitted to Parliament
                                   Advisers for the privatization of LAM appointed

A short description of actions and reforms aiming to improve public sector management by the
Borrower as referred to in paragraph 9 of the Letter of Development Policy, can be presented as
follows:

(a)    Obtaining data on monthly off­budget revenues, the so called Receitas Próprias (licenses,
fees, taxes and other items) by public institutions, computing estimates for the year, and
incorporating all such known estimates into fiscal year 2003 budget plans;

(b)    Reporting donor-funded expenditures, using the new functional classification, as statistical



                                               - 3 -

annexes in the budget execution reports, starting with the report for the first quarter of the 2002
fiscal year;

A short description of actions and reforms directed at contributing to legal and judicial reform and
promoting private sector development by the Borrower were planned to include:

(a)     Approval of the final Strategic Integrated Plan for the Legal and Judicial Sector
2002-2006 by the Borrower's legal and judicial coordinating board (Conselho de Coordenação de
Legalidade e Justiça), in which all the Borrower's four legal and judicial sub-sectors are
represented (Ministry of Justice, Supreme Court, Administrative Court, and Attorney-General);
and adoption of respective strategic plans by these sub-sectors;

(b)     Receiving the report by the specialist or advisory group that has assessed Grupo BIM,
including deficiencies in its system of corporate governance and financial as well as operational
risk management which led to extensive risk management failures, and transmittal of such report
by the Borrower to the Association;

(c)     Transmittal to the Association of a list of the Banks that have received letters from the
BM specifying their respective compliance or non-compliance with prudential regulations, in
reference to end-June 2002 accounts, duly prepared within international accounting and auditing
standards (IAS). This was to be done by the Borrower. The referred list was required to indicate
where the banks have not achieved full compliance with prudential regulations, together with the
confirmation that the Banco de Moçambique (BM, the Central Bank) has taken appropriate
corrective measures;

(d)     Completion of: (a) an independent audit of the 2001 Empresa Moçambicana de Seguros's
(EMOSE, an insurance state-owned company) accounts, including an opinion on mathematical
reserves, valuation of real estate holdings and other fixed assets, information systems and
accounting standards; and (b) initial steps of an independent actuarial analysis of the INSS by
appointment of consultants;

(e)     Submission to the National Assembly of a telecommunications law reflecting the sector
policy, satisfactory to the Association; and

(f)     Appointing of investment advisers for the privatization of Linhas Aéreas de Moçambique
(LAM, the Mozambique state-owned airlines).

3.4 Revised Components:
The design of EMPSO was not revised during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated as satisfactory. The reasons for this rating include (i) consistency of
objectives with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and government priorities and other donor
supported programs; (ii) quality of the design of EMPSO; and (iii) reasonableness of assumptions
about relevant external factors (such as political risk arising from narrowing of electoral margins
of the ruling party, macroeconomic risk related to low confidence in the financial sector resulting


                                                - 4 -

from financial crisis that hit two main commercial banks and fiduciary risk that was known to be
high).

One of the CAS pillars supports private sector led growth. The EMPSO letter of development
policy recognizes the importance of the private sector in promoting economic growth.           It
reaffirms the commitment of the Government to the formulation and implementation of policies
and reforms conducive to a business environment that is favorable to the development of private
sector activities. Such policies and reforms include the strengthening of bank supervision and
liberalization of telecommunication and air transport sectors, both included in the
conceptualization of EMPSO.

The quality of the design of EMPSO is seen as adequate and representing and a step forward in
the direction of a programmatic multi-year approach to be embodied in subsequent Poverty
Reduction Support Credits. Harmonization with PARPA/PRSP allowed for strong ownership of
most of the actions supported by the operation. The adoption of a two-tranche approach
permitting an earlier disbursement for partial completion of actions and a final disbursement for
completion was considered appropriate for taking stock of the implementation of important
policies as they were delivered and facilitating financial resources to move ahead.

The operation contributed to the mitigation of some of the risks identified during its
conceptualization in particular the macroeconomic risk related to low confidence in the financial
sector resulting from financial crisis that hit two main commercial banks and fiduciary risk.
Contributing to the strengthening of banking supervision and supporting efforts directed to
greater transparency and improved reporting of public expenditures are the main mitigation
elements foreseen.

In parallel to the components of EMPSO, Mozambique had successfully implemented four
programs with the IMF. In June 2003, the IMF completed its fifth and final review of the fourth
program, a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement. At the end of 2003 the
IMF began discussions on a new program with the authorities. This program was approved by the
IMF Board on July 9, 2004. Being Mozambique a prolonged user of IMF resources, the IMF
staff under new rules was required to complete an impact study of past assistance as well as
prepare a strategy on future assistance to the country before a new program could be arranged.
While this study was undergoing, the IMF discussed and agreed with the Government on
quarterly targets for inflation, monetary and fiscal performance, and actions to implement the
diagnostic reviews of the four largest commercial banks for IAS compliance, and monitore
developments in each of these areas.

Evaluation of Objectives

The reforms and actions above were conceptualized to contribute to the attainment of the primary
objective of EMPSO as stated in this report.

The integration of donor-funded expenditures and ministerial own receipts in the state annual
budget was viewed as linked to the need for improving budget comprehensiveness for the sake of



                                                 - 5 -

spending effectiveness and transparency and improving the relation between the PARPA
objectives and the budget resource allocation. It was generally accepted that there was a need to
address the omission of these important sources of budget resources. The absence of this sort of
intervention would allow for the continuation of one of the main weaknesses in the system and for
the encouragement of illicit behavior.

The approval of the Strategic Integrated Plan for the Legal and Judicial Sector 2002-2006 was
seen as one important step to address the slow redress by courts and encourage contract
enforcement in the medium term. A well functioning legal and judicial sector is still regarded as
one of the pillars on a sound business environment.

The interventions in the financial sector were designed as part of a set of actions to prevent
serious crisis in the sector, following recent alarming events that contributed to low confidence
over the future of the banking system1 as the financial sector is key for the development of the
private sector and sustaining a stable and sound economy that would trigger long-term growth. It
was generally admitted that there was a need to send a strong signal of commitment to address a
number of issues requiring proper management freedom and tools applicable to the sector. This
included government withdrawal from two major banks, clarification of the role of supervisors,
introduction of flows of information based on acceptable accounting and audit routines and
clarification of financial viability of EMOSE and INSS, as two important players in the financial
sector.

The reforms in the telecommunications and the air transport sectors were designed to increase
competition, lower costs to the user of these services and business operators and diversify the
type of services. Presently it is understood that liberalization before privatization is the right
policy sequence and not the contrary as a strong regulator needs to be in place.

Interviews with senior officials from the World Bank and from the Borrower and the
Implementing Agency that were involved in the preparation, supervision and coordination of all
the actions and reforms listed above confirmed that all parties regarded almost all of them as
clearly linked to the objective of the EMPSO and important for the country. However, some of
the reforms are seen today as having been unrealistic and complex in terms of required time span
for their completion, coordination capacity of the Borrower and the legal framework for enforcing
their implementation.

The issues of unrealistic time span and or complexity were particularly mentioned with respect to
the reforms in the fiscal area where some Borrower senior officials admit that it was only possible
to make a start of the recording of off-budget revenues. Officials from the World Bank do not
concur completely with this opinion and consider that much more could have been achieved if
more efforts had been put in this area. Presently both the World Bank and the Borrower consider
it unrealistic to expect an independent actuarial analysis of the INSS completed within two years,
as initially intended, but this could not have been foreseen at the time of the preparation of the
operation.

1Such events included financial difficulties in two large commercial banks that later required a re-capitalization at
the order of about 4percentage of GDP. This caused serious interest rate and inflation pressures.


                                                        - 6 -

In a few other cases the mandate of the coordinating bodies to enforce the implementation of
agreed actions could have been better understood.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objectives and outputs by component

The degree to which EMPSO achieved its relevant objective is satisfactory. This conclusion is
based on the           economic situation prevailing at the time of                  preparation of the present
Implementation Completion Report. It is also based on the fact that all the actions and reforms
that were agreed to be undertaken as conditions for the operation to come into effectiveness and
seven out of eight conditions that were set for the release of the second tranche were achieved.
The overall performance of actions and reforms that were undertaken in order meet the credit
conditions for the release of the second tranche can be summarized as follows:

Components                   Achievement (as          Comment
                             required for the release
                             of 2nd Tranche)
Ministerial own receipts     Achieved                 Recording was initiated but not all off-budget
                                                      revenues are yet being recorded. There is still more
                                                      work to be done and the 2005 budget has gone
                                                      another step forward by including some 0.4
                                                      percentage of GDP of these revenues
Donor funded expenditures Achieved                    Recording was initiated, a study to improve coverage
                                                      and discuss implications is under preparation for the
                                                      health sector. SISTAFE implementation will improve
                                                      recording and tracking of these expenditures
Legal and judicial reform   Achieved                  The plan was approved as required but there is still a
                                                      long way to go before it brings the desired results
Assessment of BIM           Achieved                  However, there are reservations as good earnings in
                                                      the past year resulted from revaluation of foreign
                                                      currency earnings. Provisions for pensions are still
                                                      inadequate
Bank's compliance with       Partially achieved       A waiver was granted but central bank has been
International Accounting                              following prudential ratios on a quarterly basis as
Standards                                             required. So far, most banks still using Mozambican
                                                      accounting. Many banks will adopt IAS shortly as
                                                      required in their countries of origin.
Independent audit of         Achieved                 The audit was undertaken
EMOSE
& Actuarial analysis of INSS Achieved                 INSS' records are being computerized for the first
                                                      time
Telecommunications law      Achieved                 No TDM monopoly anymore, new companies entered
                                                     the market
Air transportation           Achieved                 No LAM monopoly anymore, new company entered
                                                      the market



Combining this summary and the opinions of people interviewed the achievement of objectives
and outputs can be presented in more detail and are discussed as follows:



                                                       - 7 -

Ministerial own receipts. The objectives and outputs of this component were achieved. The
Government has continued the practice of including "off-budgets" revenues (that is, both
ministerial own receipts or "receitas próprias", and off-budget donor-provided funding) into
budget plans. The inclusion of ministerial own receipts was initiated in the ministries of Health and
Public Works (2000-2003). For 2004, this form of revenues were planned to amount to Meticais
(Mt) 274 billion or equivalent to US$12 million. Actual collections during the first semester of
2004 were of the order of - Meticais (Mt) 104 billion or equivalent to US$4.8 million. The
objective of budget comprehensiveness was not achieved. The Government is aware that not all
off-budget revenues are yet being recorded but is grateful to EMPSO for having stimulated the
process to get started. In implementation of the new Financial Management Information System
(SISTAFE) and the 2005 draft budget include 647 billion Mt or US$28 million of these revenues.
This is in line with the need for improving budget coverage, which requires a better knowledge of
information flows and of the legal nature of various ministerial own receipts. A more
comprehensive budget will allow for improved allocation decisions with priority given to poverty
reduction, the main focus of government's fiscal policy. The current draft of the 2005 budget that
will soon be sent to parliament is incorporating some 0.4 percentage of GDP of these revenues.
SISTAFE implementation with its single Treasury account is bringing higher levels of public
finances discipline.

Donor funded expenditures. The objectives and outputs of this component were achieved as
required for the release of the second tranche of the operation. It should be noted, however, that
work needs to be done to capture donor funding through cross-checking. One of the issues is that
although most funding is recorded in the budget the expenditure related to that funding is not
completely recorded in the Quarterly Budget Execution Report (QBER), thus the objective of
fully reporting these types of expenditures was not achieved. The MPF has managed to track a
proportion, calculated at about 38 percentage of total donor off-budget flows as shown in the
QBER. This poor recording and reporting of donor funds disempowers the MPF vis-à-vis
spending agencies that receive substantial funds directly from the donors. The government is also
aware of the need to deal with this issue in a cost effective way and taking into account its
complexity. To that end, the government has initiated preparations for an in-depth study of
off­budget revenues in the health sector without neglecting possible negative implications of
higher coverage on the overall Government wage bill2 and the possible trade off between the
extent of the collections and bureaucratic burden that ensuring higher coverage entails. There are
high expectations that this study will bring more knowledge about the magnitude of donor funded

2During the Joint Annual Review in April 2004, the possibility was raised that further inclusion of "off-budgets"
might cause the overall Government wage bill and other important ratios (such as the budget deficit ratio) to
exceed the limits that had been agreed upon with the IMF. It was decided to select one particular sector ­ in the
event, health ­ to examine the implications.



expenditures not captured in the budget cycle and the main reasons for that. It is also expected
that this study will shed more light on the way forward until objectives of budget
comprehensiveness for the sake of spending effectiveness and transparency are fully achieved.

Legal and judicial reform. The objectives and outputs of this component as required for the


                                                     - 8 -

release of the second tranche of the credit were achieved. However, Donors and other partners
that supported the Strategic Integrated Plan for the Legal and Judicial Sector 2002-2006 are of
the opinion that this plan is not realistic in terms of costs. There is near unanimity that the price
tag is very high. This had led to a request to DANIDA to finance the preparation of a vision study
expected to be completed by next year.

Judging from the assessments made by the Government and the Programme Aid Partners or G15
during the Joint Review and the Mid Year Review of the Government's implementation of the
PAF - Performance Assessment Framework (in April and September of 2004, respectively), there
is still a long way to go before the results of the implementation of the approved Strategic
Integrated Plan for the Legal and Judicial Sector 2002-2006 are achieved. So far only initial
steps for the achievement of the results of this plan have taken place. Such steps include the
training of new judges and prosecutors. It can be stated that the overall progress in this area has
been slow. One of the few exceptions has been the establishment of a common long-term vision
in this sector and the conducting of legislative reforms.

Major sources of concern include delays in the elaboration and presentation of a long-term reform
program including a system of planning, budgeting, and monitoring that provides priority to the
sector services. Further actions are required in order to reduce the prevailing high levels of
pending cases and weak performance against all process targets for the sector as a whole. Of
particular concern is the lack of progress in matters related to collateral and enforcement of
contracts, which discourages investment. Without a clear focus on ways of addressing these
issues, the development of the private sector in Mozambique will continue to be slow.

Assessment of BIM. The objectives and outputs of this component were achieved. Seen from the
point of view of senior officials from the Ministry of Planning and Finance and the Central Bank,
the assessment of Grupo BIM was one important step in the direction of active and preventive
bank supervision and improved monitoring of the financial system by the Central Bank. The
assessment was also useful for the Grupo BIM itself; it helped clarifying that there was no need
for a further capital injection in BIM. It revealed that areas in urgent need of improvement
included internal controls, IT system and operational risks. Initial expectations from Bank
officials, that proved to be unrealistic, were centered on the need for a forensic audit. Seen from
their point of view, it remains unclear to what extent there was willingness in influential segments
of the Borrower to move in that direction. The report did not identify mismanagement or
wrong-doing and failed to explain precisely what actions led to the financial problems. Its report
of findings was sent to the Attorney General's Office but has not yet yielded anything substantive.

Bank's compliance with prudential rules according to IAS. The objectives and outputs of this
component were partially achieved and a waiver had to be requested. In 2001, BM issued a
circular requiring banks to adopt IAS as of 2002, but without further definition of how IAS would
be implemented. This well-intentioned decision, whose outcome remains elusive, was taken within
the framework of the monitoring of key prudential ratios of the commercial banks, an ongoing
practice that has been based on Mozambican accounting standards. As the complexity of the
preparatory work for the transition to IAS was not properly assessed at the beginning, a waiver of
this condition was awarded. Subsequently, it became necessary to provide further technical
assistance to help the authorities and the banks to undertake a number of activities. These


                                                  - 9 -

included the diagnostic reviews of four major banks. The diagnostic of BIM was completed in
February 2004 and concluded that this bank was in a weak but positive financial situation. The
other three diagnostic reviews will be completed shortly.           It also included the subsequent
preparation of a plan and a strategy for the transition to IAS that is expected to be ready by
February 2005. A study on the requirements for the implementation on the IAS by the Central
Bank, namely the training needs in its Supervision Department and the diagnostic audits of the
impact of IAS conversion on the banking sector is under preparation. It is expected that the
implementation of the recommendations of this study will result in a faster transition to IAS, an
improved bank supervision and a minimization of risks of crisis in the financial sector, one of the
pre-requisites for maintaining macro-economic stability.

Independent audit of EMOSE and actuarial analysis of INSS. The objectives and outputs of
these subcomponents were achieved as required for the release of the second tranche but to different
degrees. The independent audit of the 2001 EMOSE accounts was completed and the report was
presented to the Bank. This action, combined with the publication of a new chart of accounts for
the insurance industry in the first semester of 2004, it is an important step for subsequent
transition of the insurance industry to IAS in the following phase of the reforms in this sector,
with its modernization as the ultimate objective. The development and implementation of a plan
for restructuring is one of the challenges foreseen for next year. An actuarial audit of INSS, the
state pension fund, was initiated as a necessary step for the stability of this part of the financial
sector but had to be suspended. As a result of that, the final objective of the actuarial analysis has
not attained while the disbursement condition of recruiting a consulting was fully reached. All
INSS records are not computerized. The Ministry of Planning and Finance and the INSS had to
hire a company to enter all these records into a computer database. As soon as the database is
built it will be possible to conduct the actuarial audit. It is estimated that such an audit would
take up to 18 months to complete. As this study is very important for understanding what is going
on with INSS long-term financial sustainability it is being taken up again in the context of the
PAF.

Telecommunications law. The objectives and outputs of this component were achieved. A new
law on telecommunications was prepared with the support of the Bank and approved by the
Parliament after an extensive consultative process that turned it satisfactory to all stakeholders
including the Bank. The new law ended the monopoly of TDM in the telecommunications sector.
It allowed for the separation of TDM and MCel (the mobile phone company) as independent firms
and the entrance of a competitor to MCel in the mobile phone industry3.

3Cell phones in Mozambique evolved rapidly from what was perceived as a luxury product at the beginning to
common product used by all segments of the population from the areas covered by this type of service. It is
estimated that there are 760 600 cell phones in the country.


Next steps are expected to include the preparation of by-laws and the introduction of a training
program to enhance the capacity of the regulatory body of the telecommunications sector. It is
beyond question that the impact of liberalization of the telecommunication services has been
positive. More services are available at affordable prices. More business opportunities are being
created and transaction costs are being reduced. This makes an important contribution to private


                                                       - 10 -

sector led growth.

Air transportation. The objectives and outputs of this component were achieved. Important
steps were given for the privatization of LAM which included the appointment of investment
advisers and the development of a short-term restructuring plan covering a number of options for
the participation of the private sector in this company. This might involve the sale of LAM's assets
to a new company, which will then sell a majority of its share to private institutions and air
transport companies. One important policy decision ended           the monopoly of LAM in the
Mozambican air space.

This allowed the entrance of two competitors to LAM in 2004, one of them operating the same
type of equipment to the same domestic destinations. It is noticeable that the main air line
operators are using all means to diversify services, offer different prices and center their attention
on the clients. The private sector has more options in terms of frequency of flights as well as
passenger and cargo fares.

4.2 Outputs by components:



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact may be modest but is positive. This operation was not
expected to have a substantial institutional development impact. Even so, some of its components
have important indirect institutional impacts. The improved reporting of ministerial receipts and
donor funds has brought increased transparency. The discussions around public finance
management, private sector development and good governance in particular the reform of the
legal and judicial sector, all as key core cross-sector issues of the PARPA, brought the
Government to include these in the PAF and PES discussions increasing dramatically the
country's ownership of its reform agenda. With the implementation of EMPSO, the willingness
and the capacity to undertake bank supervision have increased. In addition to improved bank
supervision, the authorities understood better the need for improved oversight of the insurance
and the pensions industry. Also important was the recognition of the role of the Financial
Management Information System (SISTAFE) in particular and the public sector reform in general.
It should be noted that the developments that led to the creation of UTREL (Technical Unit for
the Reform of the Legal Sector) are to a certain extent linked to the implementation of EMPSO.
This may contribute to mitigate the high fragmentation that can be noted in the judicial and legal
sector with each sub-sector (Supreme Court, Ministry of Justice, Administrative Tribunal and Bar
Association) trying to advance their own agendas without a coherent overall vision for the sector.
The consolidation of these impacts is expected to take place with important contribution of the
next operations, including the PRSCs.




                                                  - 11 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There was passive resistance to the implementation of some of the actions in the financial sector.
This derived from the climate created by the already mentioned events and from the knowledge
of the political power of some of the stakeholders who could lose if actions such as complete
forensic audit of larger commercial banks had been undertaken in the beginning of the program.
It is important to mention that EMPSO was approved in a climate of quick social and political
transformation with formation of new elites moving from the public to the private sector. While
the preparatory work for the identification of most of the interventions was of considerable scope,
the assessment of capacities, interests and commitment of participating implementing agencies
could have been better. This was particularly true in the banking sector where privatization
attracted former ministers to top positions in the resulting new banks who, by virtue of
circumstances, had to be supervised by the people they used to supervise for a long period during
the old order. Dialogue was difficult at the beginning and resistance was obvious.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Seen from the point of view of the Borrower, the main factor that affected the achievement of the
outcome of EMPSO was the complexity of the actions that were agreed,                  the lack of
harmonization between the technical capacity of implementing agency and the nature of
interventions that were conceptualized and, inadequate sequencing between revision of legal
framework and implementation of at least the component of EMPSO related to IAS. Before the
implementation of EMPSO the dialogue (not to speak of coordination) between key implementing
agencies was weak. This resulted in considerable delays in implementation of some of the actions
requiring the participation of many actors. It took some time until BIM and Banco Austral
understood that the coordinating role of the central bank was not interference but supporting to
solve problems and implementing supervision functions set by law. It was also after some time
that it was understood that there was a need to revise the law on the chart of accounts first and
require the observation of IAS afterwards. Independently of all the aspects mentioned above the
dedication of high officials from the Government and the Central Bank and the very positive
experiences of donor coordination and harmonization that exist in Mozambique allowed for the
achievement of generally satisfactory outcome in the implementation of EMPSO as its was
demonstrated earlier.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Same as above.

5.4 Costs and financing:



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is highly likely that the achievements generated under the auspices of EMPSO will be
maintained as a number of them are of durable impact. There is commitment to maintain and
expand the reforms. The political situation has been stable. No major internal disputes over the
direction of the reform have been heard even in the present political climate of           general
democratic elections. The ownership of the primary objective of EMPSO (the consolidation of


                                                     - 12 -

macroeconomic stability and laying the foundations for sustained private sector-led growth over
the medium term) is a reality that surfaced in the interview with high Government and Central
Bank officials. One important contribution of EMPSO was the introduction of new legislation and
regulations in sectors of crucial importance for the development of the private sector. New
routines were also introduced and there are no signs of possible reversals even in cases of initial
resistance.

The assessment of the condition of each component from the point of view of sustainability can be
summarized as follows:

Components                 Sustainability      Comment
Ministerial own receipts    Not yet            Recording was initiated but not all off-budget revenues are
                           sustainable         yet being recorded. The 2005 draft budget is recording an
                                               additional 0.4 percentage of GDP of these revenues
Donor funded expenditures  Not yet sustainable A study based on the health sector is under preparation
Legal and judicial reform  Highly unlikely     Not yet achieved, there is still a long way to go before the
                                               objectives are achieved
Assessment of BIM          Likely              With reservations as good earnings in the past year resulted
                                               from revaluation of foreign currency earnings. Provisions for
                                               pensions are still inadequate
Bank's compliance with IAS Likely              But not yet achieved. Many banks will adopt IAS shortly as
                                               required in their countries of origin
Independent audit of       Likely              The audit was undertaken
EMOSE                                          Not yet achieved, INSS' records are being computerized for
Actuarial analysis of INSS Unlikely            the first time
Telecommunications law     Highly likely      No TDM monopoly anymore, new companies entered the
                                              market
Air transportation         Highly likely       No LAM monopoly anymore, new company entered the
                                               market



In its dialogue with the Bank and Donors during the annual and the mid year reviews (April and
September 2004), the Government expressed the view that improving public sector management
is at the core of its priorities for 2005. This will include working for timely budget execution and
reporting, particularly in key priority areas for poverty reduction and at the provincial level. It also
includes the roll out of SISTAFE and the preparation of periodic budget reports through this new
system.

Private sector development, legal and judicial reform and improved supervision of the financial
sector to prevent losses are further priorities agreed for 2005 in the forum mentioned above and
materialized in the PAF.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance in identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal of                            EMPSO was
satisfactory although there are some areas in which it could have been improved.


                                                       - 13 -

The Economic Management and Private Sector Operation (EMPSO) was consistent with the
government's development priorities since it was an important source of support to the
implementation of the actions contained in the PARPA. For the same reason EMPSO was
consistent with the Bank's CAS. Bank teams that were engaged in the preparation of EMPSO
provided valuable assistance to the Borrower. The skill mix and continuity of the teams assigned
to the preparatory phase were adequate and resulted in a good design of the content of EMPSO,
founded in sound preparatory work in most sectors, that took a considerable amount of time.

The Bank team that was engaged in the appraisal of EMPSO took into consideration the
commitment of the Government and the implementing agency to coordinate the reforms. As
mentioned earlier the appraisal of the legal capacity of the borrower to coordinate the
implementation of the reforms according to realistic deadlines could have been more
comprehensive. This could have led to a less complex set of reforms in recognition of risks of
resistance to the pace of reforms agreed with the Borrower. The Bank could have done better not
to expect a thorough accounting of the BIM crisis, as this was not provided anyway. Bank staff
would also have done better in terms of assisting the Borrower in defining the transition strategy
to IAS.

Independently of the shortcomings mentioned above the financial package of EMPSO was
considered appropriate and the amount lent was regarded as adequate. The suitability of the
lending instrument is beyond question. Seen from the point of view of the Borrower, EMPSO
represented an advance compared to previous operations since in this case there was an
immediate conversion of the amounts of each of the two tranches into local funds for budget
support as soon as each tranche was released.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance in supervision of EMPSO was equally satisfactory. Implementation
progress was adequately reported. Four PSRs were completed and the ratings given were
considered realistic. In addition to regular supervision missions with sufficient time spent in the
field, one of the two co-TTLs met relevant officials from the Government and the Central Bank in
many cases on a weekly basis and maintained frequent telephone contact. This allowed for
addressing proactively many problems before they became complicated and establishing an action
plan with deadlines that enabled the achievement of the second tranche disbursement conditions.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory taking into account the assessment presented
above. The long period of preparation, the combination of supervision and implementation
support allowed for mutual understanding between the Bank and the Borrower. It would have
been more comfortable for the Borrower to have a better understanding of the distinction between
actions that represented the starting of a long process and actions that were to be completed
within the life of the operation. It was only during the course of the operation that it became clear
to the Borrower that in a number of cases, such as the capturing of off-budgets and the transition
to IAS, EMPSO allowed for setting the ground for the continuation of initiated actions in
subsequent operations.




                                                - 14 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's involvement in preparation of EMPSO is assessed as satisfactory, although there
were some aspects that could have been improved. All types of governmental documents that
were regarded as useful for the conceptualization of EMPSO were made available to the Bank,
with a few exceptions (that included the purchase contract for Banco Austral). The Letter of
Development Policy provided a good overview and rationale for EMPSO and a clear description
of the program and its components. The operation was designed to fully reflect the needs of
Mozambique. Generally, there was commitment and spirit of collaboration between the Bank
teams and the Mozambican counterparts engaged in the preparation of EMPSO. However, as
mentioned earlier, preparation of EMPSO took a very long time for a number of reasons,
including apparently a resistance of the financial sector to subject itself to a full forensic audit.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Government and the Central Bank in the implementation of EMPSO was
satisfactory. Both assigned capable (although a small quantity of) personnel to manage the
implementation of EMPSO. There was stability and continuity of personnel in the Government
and the Central Bank. The same pattern was seen in the sectors covered by the reforms. In most
cases this prevented unnecessary delays in the understanding of what needed to be done and in
actual implementation of reforms.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Taking into account the evaluation presented in the paragraphs above, the overall performance of
the Government and the Central Bank is assessed as satisfactory. The multiplicity of actions and
their extension to the private sector required considerable coordination efforts that had to be built
gradually. The results on the ground allowed for a clarification of areas where progress was
visible, areas that were a source of concern and areas that represented challenges to be addressed
by subsequent operations. Equally important was the clarification of staffing and training needs to
ensure a smoother transition from operations covering areas of strict government domain to
operations covering wider sectors of the economy, including the private sector.

There is no doubt that there is professionalism and willingness to continue the reform process
even taking into account that the country had third general and presidential election on December
1-2, 2004. Apparently there are no signs of possible reversals in the commitment to the
continuation of the reforms.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking the above into consideration the overall borrower's performance is assessed as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Economic Management and Private Sector Operation (EMPSO) was on the whole a
successful initiative that was conceptualized in the right moment for the continuation of a number
of reforms contributing to the consolidation of macroeconomic stability and laying the
foundations for sustained private sector-led growth.

Based on the assessments presented above and taking into account the opinions of the officials



                                                  - 15 -

involved in the preparation and implementation of EMPSO, the most significant lessons learned
from this operation include the following:

·       When policy changes are introduced with the right sequencing (liberalization first and
privatization afterwards) as it was the case in the telecommunications and air transportation
sub-sectors, the response in the supply and the demand for goods and services can be impressive.
It was the right sequencing that allowed for the tremendous response to cell phones and the
entrance into operation of new air companies;

·       Coordination and supervision capacity are crucial for successful implementation of policy
changes. There should be an assessment of the capacity of the coordinating bodies focused on
identification of possible training and or technical assistance needs and the need for reviewing
existing legislation. Privatization of banks could have led to better results if there had been far
more supervision, better timing and planning capacity;

·       Setting plans is important but more important is the capacity to implement them and to
have good monitoring and evaluation systems in place. The Strategic Integrated Plan for the
Legal and Judicial Sector 2002-2006 was adopted but so far little has occurred in terms of actual
implementation and impact of the prevailing conditions in the sector. Ownership to carry out the
reform and avoid fragmentation is very important. The need for a coordination and robust actions
is an evidence to be addressed with the creation of the the Technical Unit for the Legal Reform.

·       The combination of         technical work (e.g. on BER reporting) with the EMPSO
conditionality as well as strong interest on the part of IMF and Donors, led to a self re-enforcing
process whereby the government attributed increased importance to transparency (in reporting),
competition (in air transport and telecommunications) and banking supervision. The result was
stronger ownership of the EMPSO objectives by the end of the operation.

·       Requiring people who perceive themselves as potential losers to provide political support
to undertake painful actions can be unrealistic as illustrated by the resistance to conduct a forensic
audit of a state-owned bank;

·       Part of the reason for the success of the two liberalization exercises (telecommunications
and airlines) is that a technical assistance project was initiated at the same time. This ensured that
the Borrower had all the technical information needed. The EMPSO "backstopped" the technical
assistance project on the key and difficult policy actions.

·       It was very important that there was stability         in the composition of missions and
counterpart teams from preparation to implementation of EMPSO. This allowed mutual
knowledge, better definition of priorities, reaching consensus on progress, having a common
understanding of areas of concern and challenges ahead. It was mentioned several times in the
interviews that working with the same people from the beginning to the end of the operation and
having a co-TTL in the field narrowed cultural differences and expanded the understanding of the
envisaged achievements;




                                                 - 16 -

·       The setting of clear and realistic objectives, based on good knowledge of the conditions on
the ground represent an important element for the type of outcome that is to be achieved.
However, when the objectives are clear but not realistic, as it has been seen in a few cases, there
might be slow progress of implementation and marginal success during the life of the operation.
Such cases included the actuarial analysis of the INSS where it was subsequently found that there
are only manual records of data and the time needed for its digitalization should have been
properly assessed if the diagnosis of the problem had been more accurate. Another example of
unrealistic expectation include the transition to IAS that will have to be continued in the next
operations as technical assistance is needed in this area.

The Economic Management and Private Sector Operation (EMPSO) was a good starting point
for a smooth transition to operations like PRSCs. The Borrower is more comfortable with
programmatic operations founded on phased policies and interventions to be implemented in a
more realistic time horizon and involving all direct budget support donors within a common policy
reform framework, the PAF.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The comments provided by the Banco de Moçambique in the name of the Government:




                                                 - 17 -

- 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                             - 19 -

Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                              - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
12-month inflation rate                    12/30/2002 Target 8%                            8.7%
                                           12/30/2003 Target 7%                            13.5%
Ratio of revenue to GDP                    12/30/2002 Target 12.8%                         13.5%
                                           12/30/2003 Target 13.5%                         14.3%
Ratio of domestic primary deficit to GDP   12/30/2002 4.4%                                 3.2%
exluding banking restructuring costs       12/30/2003 3.4%
Overall telephone density                  12/30/2002 No target                            2%


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Satisfaction of prudential regulations by  12/30/2002
banks.                                     All banks satisfy all prudential regulations by 1 bank satisfying all prudential regulations,
                                           2nd tranche (anticipated calendar 2003 Q2)      data on others unavailable

                                           12/30/2003
                                           All banks satisfy all prudential regulations    Al but two banks are satisfying all prudential
                                                                                           regulations according to Mozambican
                                                                                           accounting standards. Large commercial
                                                                                           banks are in transition to IAS
Percentage Government ownership in the 2   12/30/2002
largest banks (BAu, BIM).                  No numerical target for end-2002 but an
                                           understanding that the share in BAu will be
                                           sold to workers shortly` and the 49% stake in
                                           BCM (now 23% in BIM) will be reduced by
                                           sale to BCP or to workers.

                                           12/30/2003
                                           Government ownership 0% (workers' trust for Privatization of Government share in
                                           BAu, sale of BIM shares)                        preparation


Number of licences for telephone operators 12/30/2002
                                           1 private cellular operator awarded a licence   1 private cellular operator awarded a licence
                                           after a fair and transparent bidding process.   (Vodacom). Though Vodacom is now
                                                                                           threatening withdrawal, alleging undercutting
                                                                                           by MCel which enjoys cross-subsidization
                                                                                           from its owner TDM
                                           12/30/2003
                                           Mobile licenses issued, 1 to MCel and 1 to
                                           a new operator.                                 Accomplished


Issuance of a pro-liberalization           12/30/2002
telecommunications law                     New pro-competition telecoms law submitted Not submitted. In discussion phase still.
                                           to Parliament                                   Draft law embodies liberalization of cellular
                                                                                           access, new operators permitted to invest in
                                                                                           fixed lines or use other gateways. Expected
                                                                                           April 2003.




                                           12/30/2003
                                           New telecoms law passed and under               A draft was submitted to Parliament in 2003
                                           implementation                                  and approved in 2004


Privatization of TDM.                      12/30/2002
                                           Investment advisers for TDM privatization       Investment advisers were appointed.
                                           appointed by Dec. 2002. The Information         Information Memorandum not yet launched
                                           Memorandum is expected to be launched by as of Dec 2002
                                           2003 Q2.




                                                               - 21 -

                             12/30/2003
                             Irreversible steps have been taken to privatize Information memorandum not yet launched
                             TDM (e.g. actual sale, or offer, or issuance of
                             the information memorandum)



Privatization of LAM         12/30/2002
                             LAM investment advisers appointed.              Investment advisers were appointed.
                             Issuance of the information memorandum for Information memorandum not yet issued.
                             the sale expected during 2003.

                             12/30/2003
                             Irreversible steps taken to privatize LAM (e.g. Information memorandum launched,
                             actual sale, or offer, or issuance of           proposals received and under consideration
                             information memorandum)
Privatization of PETROMOC    12/30/2002
                             Investment adviser appointed; privatization     Investment adviser appointed mid-2002;
                             options paper written; cabinet adopts a         privatization options paper written.
                             privatization strategy                          Privatization strategy not yet selected.


                             12/30/2003
                             Irreversible steps taken to privatize           Action not taken
                             PETROMOC (actual sale, or offer, or
                             issuance of the information memorandum)

1End of project




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not Applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective
 Identification/Preparation

              JULY                     5    COUNTRY ECONOMIST (1);
              23-AUGUST 13,                 COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1);
              2000                          RESIDENT
                                            REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                                            ECONOMISTS (2);
                                       8
              OCTOBER 3-20,                 COUNTRY ECONOMIST (2);
              2000                          COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1);
                                            RESIDENT
                                            REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                                            SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                            FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                       7    OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);

              FEBRUARY                      COUNTRY ECONOMIST (2);
              22-MARCH 22,                  ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
              2001                          SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PUBLIC SECTOR SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                            DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              DECEMBER 18,           12     COUNTRY ECONOMIST
              2001                          (2); ECONOMIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                            SPECIALIST (1); PRIVATE
                                            SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL ECONOMIST
                                            (1); COUNTRY DIRECTOR
                                            (1);


 Supervision
              OCTOBER 28,              7    COUNTRY ECONOMIST                S               S
              2002                          (1); CONSULTANT (1);



                                             - 25 -

                                           ECONOMIST (1); SECTOR
                                           MANAGER (1);
                                           FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);
                                           PRIVATE SECTOR
                                           DEVELOPMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1);

               DECEMBER 9-13,          3   COUNTRY ECONOMIST (2);            S    S
               2002                        ADVISOR/BANKING,
                                           CAPITAL MARKETS & FIN.
                                           ENG (1);

               DECEMBER                3   COUNTRY ECONOMIST (2);            S    S
               16-24, 2002                 ADVISOR/BANKING,
                                           CAPITAL MARKETS & FIN.
                                           ENG (1);
 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            41.2                         204,4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 56.4                         269,6
  Supervision                           60.6                         248,7
  ICR                                   21.4                           90,1
  Total                                179.6                         812,7




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.Memorandum of the President No. 20521 MOZ , "Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Mozambique", June 14, 2000

2. Memorandum of the President No. 26747-MOZ , "Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Mozambique", October 20, 2000

3. President report No. MOZ-P&553 "The Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
(EMPSO)" August 2, 2002

4. Development Credit Agreement No. 3709 MOZ "The Economic Management and Private
Sector Operation (EMPSO)" September 11, 2002

5. Note to the Board justifying disbursement of the Second Tranche

6. Aide-Memoire of the Identification Mission
October 3-20, 2000

7. Back to Office Report following the Identification Mission
October 27, 2000

8. The finalized Concept Brief
December 13, 2000

9. The draft Project Information Document (PID)
December 13, 2000

10. Statement of Mission Objectives for the Preparation Mission
February 20, 2001

11. Aide-Memoire of the Preparation Mission: general section, excluding financial sector
March 22, 2001

12. Aide-Memoire of the Preparation Mission: financial sector component
March 22, 2001

13. Package for Negotiations
April 16, 2002. The package as cleared by LEGAF.

14. Project Status Reports Seqs 1, 2, 3, 4,




                                               - 29 -

- 30 -

