     I




                                       Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No.: 48920




                 PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                     MOZAMBIQUE


        ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE SECTOROPERATION
                                        Credit3709

                  FIRST POVERTYREDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
                                        Credit3950

                 SECONDPOVERTYREDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
                                        Credit4111


                                       June 17,2009




Country Evaluation and Regional Relations
IndependentEvaluation Group (WorldBank)

                                                                ..
                                                                11



       Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

       Currency Unit = metical (MZM)

       2008                             US$l.oo                  25,000 MTM
       2009                             US$l.oo                  26,330.MTM

       Fiscal Year

       Government:                      January 1-December31

       Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA          Analytical and advisory work                        IEG     Independent Evaluation Group
BIM          Banco International de Mocambique                   IMF     International Monetary Fund
BM           Banco de Mocambique                                 INSS    lnstituto Nacional de Seguranca Social
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy                         LAM     Linhas Aereas de Mocambique
                                                                 M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
DPL          Development Policy Lending                          PAF     Performance Assessment Framework
                                                                         Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
EMOSE        Empresa Mocambicana de Seguros                      PARPA   (Portuguese acronym)
EMPSO        Economic Management and Private Sector Operation    PFM     Public Financial Management
EMRO         Economic Management and Reform Operation            PPAR    Project Performance Assessment Report
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit                            PRGF    Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
FRELIMO      Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (Portuguese
             acronym)                                            PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
FYDP         Five-Year Development Program                       PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GBS          General budget support                              PSD     Private Sector Development
                                                                         Mozambique National Resistance Party (Portuguese
GDP          Gross Domestic Product                              RENAMO  acronym)
                                                                         Integrated Financial Management Information System
HlPC         Highly Indebted Poor Countries                      SISTAFE (Portuguese acronym)
IAS          International Accounting Standards                  SME     Small and medium-sized domestic enterprises
ICR          Implementation Completion Report                    TA      Technical assistance
                                                                         Telecommunications Authority of Mozambique (Portuguese
ID           Institutional development                           TDM     acronym)
IDA          International Development Association               UTREL   Technical Unit for the Reform of the Legal Sector




All $ amounts are U.S.dollars.




      Director-General,Evaluation                                       : Mr.VinodThomas
      Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup(WorldBank)                   : Ms.CherylW. Gray
       Sr. Manager, IEGCR                                               : Mr.AliKhadr
      Task Manager                                                      : Mr. FareedHassan
      PrimaryAuthor                                                     : Mr.AdilKanaan

                                                            ...
                                                            111




 IEGWBMission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The IndependentEvaluationGroup assesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two purposes:
first,to ensurethe integrityof the Banks selfevaluation processand to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
expected results,and second,to helpdevelopimproved directions,policies,and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As partof this work, IEGWB annually assessesabout 25 percent of
the Bank'slendingoperationsthroughfieldwork. Inselectingoperations for assessment,preferenceis given to those
that are innovative,large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations;those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requested assessments; and thosethat are likelyto generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing countryto discussthe operationwith the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interviewBank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquartersand
in local offices as appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internalIEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally,the PPAR is commentedon by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe commentsas
relevant.The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review;the borrowers'comments are attachedto
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has beensent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
      IEGWB's use of multiple evaluationmethods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adaptto
lendinginstrument,projectdesign,or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definitionand rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additionalinformationis available on the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation'smajor relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto
be achieved, efficiently.The rating has three dimensions: relevance,efficacy,and efficiency.Relevance includes
relevanceof objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectivesis the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistentwith the country's currentdevelopment prioritiesand with current Bank country and
sectoralassistancestrategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacy isthe extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved, taking into accounttheir relative importance.Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations.Possibleratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expectedoutcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome:High
Significant, Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which servicesprovidedby the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operationand supported effective implementationthroughappropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequate
transition arrangementsfor regular operation of supportedactivities after loankredit closing, toward the
achievementof developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe governmentand implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and
agreements,toward the achievement of development outcomes.The rating has two dimensions: government
performanceand implementingagency(ies)performance.Possibleratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                         V



Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS               ..................................................................................................................             vi1


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                     .......................................................................................................            Vlll


PREFACE    .......................................................................................................................................             IX


SUMMARY     .....................................................................................................................................              XI


1 BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT
 .                                                   ...............................................................................................            1

         PoliticalBackground                ........................................................................................................            1
         Economic Background                   .....................................................................................................            1
         Summary of PriorWorld Bank Support (1987-2002)                                            .....................................................        2
         ConcludingRemarkon the Overall Contextfor the Three Operations                                                              .......................    4


2.       DEVELOPMENTAND ASSISTANCESTRATEGIES                                                    .......................................................         5

         Mozambique'sStrategic Orientationand Framework                                               ..................................................        5
         The World Bank'sAssistanceStrategy                                 ..........................................................................          5
         The Strategic Fit of the Three Reviewed Operations                                         ....................................................        7


3.       ECONOMIC MANAGEMENTAND PRIVATESECTOR OPERATION(EMPSO)                                                                                      ............9
         Backgroundand Contextat Appraisal                                 ...........................................................................          9
         ProjectObjectives and Design                        ........................................................................................           9
         Implementation Experienceand Outcome                                    ...................................................................           11
         InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                          .................................................................................            12
         Riskto DevelopmentOutcome (Sustainability)                                       ...........................................................          13
         Bank Performance               ..........................................................................................................             13
         BorrowerPerformance                   ...................................................................................................             14


4.       FIRST POVERTY REDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT(PRSC I)                                                           ......................................        15

         Backgroundand Context at Appraisal                                .........................................................................           15
         ProjectObjectives and Design                        ......................................................................................            15
         ImplementationExperience                       ...........................................................................................            16
         Outcome       ..........................................................................................................................              17
         Riskto DevelopmentOutcome. Bank Performance.and Borrower Performance                                                                               ...19
Thisreport was preparedby FareedHassan. Task Manager andAdil Kanaan. Consultant. who assessedthe
project inFebruary2009. Ms Cecilia B. Tanprovided administrative support.

                                                                          vi


5.     SECOND POVERTY REDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC II)                                                                   ................................ 21

       Background and Context at Appraisal                                  .........................................................................      21
       Project Objectives and Design                          ......................................................................................       21
       Implementation Experience                         ...........................................................................................       22
       Outcome          ..........................................................................................................................         24
       Risk to DevelopmentOutcome                              .....................................................................................       26
       Bank Performance                  ..........................................................................................................        27
       Borrower Performance                     ...................................................................................................        28


6.     OVERALL EVALUATIONAND LESSONS                                             .....................................................................     29

       Overall Evaluation                ..........................................................................................................        29
       Lessons         ...........................................................................................................................         32


ANNEX I: PRIOR ACTIONS AND TRANCHE RELEASECONDITIONS (EMPSO. PRSCS I
AND II)...........................................................................................................................................         35


ANNEX II: LIST OF PEOPLE INTERVlEWEDlMET                                          ....................................................................     39


ANNEX 111:    BORROWER COMMENTS                              .......................................................................................       41


ANNEX IV BASIC DATA SHEET
          .                                        .................................................................................................       43

                                                       vii


 PrincipalRatings
                                   ICR*                    ES*                  PPAR
 Economic Management and Private Sector Operation           - PO49878
 Outcome                   Satisfactory            Moderately           Moderately
                                                   Satisfactory         Satisfactory
 Institutional              Modest                  Modest
 Development
 Impact"

 Risk to                                                                Moderate
 Development
 Outcome
 Sustainability"           Likely                  Likely

 Bank Performance          Satisfactory           Satisfactory          Satisfactory

 Borrower                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory         Satisfactory
 Performance

 First PovemReduction Support Credit PO75805 -
 Outcome                    Satisfactory           Satisfactory         Satisfactory
 Institutional              Substantial            Substantial
 Development
 Impact"
 Risk to                                                                Moderate
 Development
 Outcome
 Sustainability"          Highly Likely            Likely

 Bank Performance          Satisfactory           Satisfactory          Satisfactory

 Borrower                  Satisfactory           Satisfactory          Satisfactory
 Performance
                                                -
~

 Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit PO56201

 Outcome                   Satisfactory            Satisfactory         Satisfactory
 Institutional             Substantial             Substantial
 Development
 Impact"

 Risk to                                                                Moderate
 Development
 Outcome
 Sustainability"          Likely                   Likely
 Bank Performance          Satisfactory            Satisfactory         Satisfactory

 Borrower                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory         Satisfactory
 Performance

 * The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department.The
 EvaluationSummary(ES) is an intermediateIEGWBproductthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings
 of the ICR.
 **AS of July 1,2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact is assessed as part of the Outcomerating.
 *"As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to DevelopmentOutcome.As the scales are
 different, the ratings are not directly comparable.

                                                ...
                                               Vlll



  Kev Staff ResDonsible
  Project        I Task Manager/Leader    I     Sector Manager           Country Director


  Appraisal           Peter
                           Franco             Philippe H. Le Houerou        Darius Mans
I Completion     I   Jose Luis Macamo     I      EmmanuelAkpa       I      Michael Baxter    I
1
II                                          1I                        11
  First Poverty ReductionSupport Credit PO75805
                                       -                                                     I
  Appraisal               Antonio
                    Franco/JohannesZutt          EmmanuelAkpa              Michael Baxter    I
  Completion     11     Gregor Binkert           EmmanuelAkpa            Darius Mans/Michael
                                         -                                      Baxter

I Second Poverty ReductionSupport Credit PO56201
                          Antonio         I                           1  Darius Mans/Michael
  Appraisal         Franco/JohannesZutt          EmmanuelAkpa                   Baxter
  Completion     II     Gregor Binkert           EmmanuelAkpa              Michael Baxter

                                              ix


Preface

This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on three operations in
Mozambique: the Economic Management and Private Sector Operation (EMPSO)
approved on August 29,2002; the FirstPoverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I)
approved on July 6,2004; andthe Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 11)
approved on September 13,2005.

EMPSO was supported by a development policy credit o f $120 million equivalent. Both
PRSC Iand PRSC I1were general budget support operations provided inthe spirit o f the
ParisDeclaration. The first consisted o f a single tranche o f $60 million equivalent grant,
andthe second consisted o fan IDA credit oftwo tranches for atotal o f $120 million
equivalent.

This report is basedon a review ofrelevant documentation, interviews with World Bank
staff members at headquarters inWashington D.C., as well as interviews inMaputo
duringthe first halfo fFebruary 2009 withmembersofthe Mozambicanauthorities and
civil society, Bank and International Monetary Fund(IMF) staff members, and
representatives o f some o f the main development partners (Annex 11).

A summary o fthe mainfindings, conclusions and lessons is presented prior to the main
body o fthe report.

Chapter 1 gives a briefpresentation o f the political andeconomic backgrounds and an
equally brief summary o f World Bank support duringthe 1987-2002 period, essentially
from the time soon after Mozambique became a member o fthe World Bank, upto the
year that the EMPSO was approved.

Chapter 2 presents a summary o fthe main elements o f Mozambique's overall socio-
economic development strategy, the Bank's assistance strategy, and the fit o f the three
reviewed operations withinthese strategies.

Chapters 3,4, and 5 present assessmentso f EMPSO, PRSC I,andPRSC 11, respectively;
including the assignment o f standard Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) review ratings
for all three projects, with regardto: outcome, riskto development outcome, Bank
performance, and Borrower performance.

Finally, Chapter 6 starts with a very briefevaluation o fthe three operations taken
together, and concludes with a listing o fthe mainlessons learned from this assessment,
and some o fthe mainlessons mentioned inthe ICRs or IEGreviews coveringthe three
projects.


                                               xi


Summary

1.      Background and Context. At the turno fthe millennium, Mozambique had
sufferedheavily through a destructive civil war duringits first fifteen years since its
independence in 1975. With the signing o fthe PeaceAccord in 1992, the government
was able to start directing its efforts at economic stabilization, reconstruction, and
growth; while it made the painful but rewardingfundamental changes, from a command
to a market economy, and from a colonialist past and severe civil conflict to peace and a
multi-partydemocracy. The efforts paidoff. Overall macroeconomic performance
duringthe nineties was impressive,as was the reductioninpovertythat was achieved. A
significant start and initial progress was made inseveral important areas o f structural
reforms; and by the dawn o fthe new millennium, the country had developed a very
favorable track record as an achiever and effective recipient o f international aid. It was
judged by the community o f its development partners as poised for further growth and
development, and was ready for a new generation o f analytical work and lending
operations to help deepeneconomic reform, and deal with the still very highlevel o f
poverty and very low level o f social development. Also, by the beginning o fthe review
period covered by this report, the need was felt to direct a muchmore explicit and
forceful effort at aid coordination, a subject that had formed one o fthe three strategic
pillarso fthe Bank's 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), covering the 1998-2000
period.

2.      Mozambique's DevelopmentStrategy. The government's overarching strategic
economic development objective has been the promotion o f growth, inorder to reduce
poverty and improve the general well-being o fthe Mozambican people. This broad
objective guided the designo fthe medium-term Five-Year Development Program
(FYDP)for 2000-04, which incorporatedthe government's interimAction Planfor the
Reduction ofA bsolute Poverty (PARPA-its Portuguese acronym) for the identical
period.

3.      The three mainpillarso fthe FYDP and PARPA consisted of: (i)          increasing
economic opportunities by generating poverty-reducing and employment-creating
growth, through the private sector; (ii)  improving governance and empowerment through
a more effective public sector, improving the rule o f law, and promoting greater
accountability and transparency; and (iii)   improving human capabilities by strengthening
the delivery o f social services and safety nets. Implicit inthe first pillar was the
maintenance o f macroeconomic stability which is often an essential pre-requisite for
sustained growth. Another relatedobjective to growth was to decrease the dependence
on externaljnancial assistancewhich had beenone o fthe highest inthe world. These
strategic pillars were translated into specific policies, measures, and some quantitative
targets and triggers designed to meet the stated objectives, and captured ina number o f
government planningand monitoring documents.

4.      The WorldBank's Assistance Strategy. The Bank's assistance strategy over the
period encompassing the three operations assessedinthis report was very closely aligned
withthe government's ownoverall economic development strategy andplans. This

                                              xii


alignment became even closer throughout the period, as implementationmatrices and
benchmarks were also meshed; and greater coordination among the large group o f donors
ensured that the alignment included the assistance strategies o f all concerned. Interms o f
content, the two CASs that overlapped withthis period essentially shared the same
strategic objectives and covered the same policy areas. The overall intent was to assist
the government inits efforts to promote growth inorder to improve the country's
standardo flivingandto reduce poverty. This was to be achieved primarilythrough
maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment; and promoting private sector
initiative, particularly for small andmedium-sized domestic enterprises (SMEs), and in
agriculture. To that end, public sector performance needed to be improved through
capacity buildingmeasures, better governance, andadministrative decentralization; the
financial sector neededto be developed and strengthened; andhumanresources neededto
be developed through the provision o f improved education and health services. Very
close coordination among the government-and its development partners, including the
World Bank, would helpmobilize the needed levels o f financial assistance and increase
the chances o ftheir efficient use. The policy and institutional development areas
supported by the three operations were prominently featured inthe government's and the
donors' strategies andprograms.

5.       EconomicManagement and Private Sector Operation (EMPSO). This project
aimed at assisting Mozambique inimprovingpublic sector management andpromoting
private sector development. It was essentially a development policy operation (DPL) that
addresseda broad range o fpolicy areas. Under the public sector management
component, the main areas covered included: (a) expanding the budget's coverage to
include the own receipts (receitasproprias) o fthe ministries, and expenditures fundedby
development partners; (b) disseminatingthe findings o f a recently completed public
expenditure review by the Bank; and (c) tax reformmeasures to decrease the level o f
effective protection. Under the private sector development (PSD) component, the main
areas included: (a) a broad set o f financial sector reform measures for bothbankingand
non-banking institutions designed to avoid a financial crisis that hadbeenlooming, and
lay the foundations for a healthy development o fthis sector; (b) measures to improve the
performance o fthe telecommunications, air transport and petroleum sectors; and (c) legal
andjudicial sector reforms.

6.       Good, though incomplete, progress was made inthe Public Financial
Management (PFM) and financial sector areas. Limitedprogress was made inPSD in
general, although the privatizations inthe telecommunications and air transport sectors
were carried out. As a result, the employment generating effect o f any PSDwas very
limited. Finally, the very limitedand slow progress inlegal andjudicial reform was
disappointing. Inall, this assessment agrees with the IEGreview that the overall
outcome o fthis project merits a rating o fmoderately satisfactory, a notch below the
satisfactory rating given to it by the ICR.

7.       The riskto development outcome is rated moderate for a number o freasons: (i)
the government and its development partners, including the Bank, have been and
continue to be committed to achieving better progress inthe areas ofthe reform covered
by this project; (ii) political climate inthe country has remained stable, andprospects
                    the

                                              ...
                                             X l l l



for continued stability are good; and (iii)number ofnewkey institutions, frameworks,
                                           a
regulations, andprocesses have been set up, and are likely to be strengthened over time.

8.      The design o fthis operationwas completely consistent withthe government's
development strategy, and the Bank's assistance strategy. The specific components and
measures selected as conditions for the disbursement o fthe first and second tranches
were appropriate. The operationwas closely supervised by the Bankwith four project
status reports. Inaddition, staff o fthe Bank's office inMaputo met regularly with
counterpart officials to reviewprogress. This assessment, therefore, agrees with the ICR
andthe IEGreview that the Bank's overall performancemerits a rating o fsatisfactory.
The implementing agencies for this operation, boththe government and the Central Bank,
assigned competent personnel, though small innumber considering the paucity o f
professionals inthe country, who collaborated very closely and openly with the Bank;
andtheir stable tenure intheir positionsprovided continuity andpredictability duringthe
project preparationand implementation. All relevant information was made available to
the Bank, with few exceptions like the purchase contract for Banco Austral. Training
was provided to relevant staffthat enabled themto extend their experience to working
with the private sector. Still, the preparationo fthe project took a longtime, partlydue to
the resistance by managers inthe financial sector to subject their institutions to full
forensic audits, which the Bank hadto reluctantly abandon. Onbalance, this assessment
agrees with the ICR and the IEGreview that the Borrower's overall performance merits a
ratingo f satisfactory.

9.      First and SecondPoverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCI and PRSCII).
These two operations shared a common objective, and consisted o f identical components;
although some o fthe specific measures under these components mighthave differed.
The three common components were: (i)      buildingpublic sector capacity and
accountability; (ii) improving the investment climate, particularly for the private sector;
(iii)expanding service delivery ineducation, health, water supply, and sanitation.
Specific measures included as prior conditions, or second tranche conditions under the
second operation essentially reiterated, or built upon, the same or similar conditions
underthe first operation.

10.     Thus, the mainmeasures included inthe first and the second operations under the
three project components were:

(ibuildingpublicsectorcapacityandaccountabilitythroughmaintainingasound
  )
macroeconomic policy framework; maintaining the share o fpoverty reducing
expenditures at close to 65 percent o ftotal public expenditures; improving the
management o fpublic expenditures; increasing revenues to enable fiscal prudence;
introducing clear and transparent procurement practices; buildingthe capacities o f local
authorities for planning, budgeting, financial management, and service delivery;
strengthening the regulatory framework for business; and developing the capacity o f the
government to deal with corruption more aggressively;

(io improving the investment climate throughmore effective supervisiono fbankingand
non-banking financial institutions; moving towards more efficient andprofitable banks; a
complete divestiture o fthe government o f its interests inthe banking system; reducing

                                              xiv


the level o f effective protectionto local industries; and allowing for a more efficient and
flexible labor law, which would allow businesses to become more competitive; and

(iii) expanding service delivery through reducingthe mortality rate for mothers and
infants; increasing access to basic health services; increasing access and retention, and
reducing gender inequalities inprimary education; and increasing access to potable water
andsanitation.

11.     The overall outcome o fthe two operations taken together was satisfactory. The
public sector capacity and accountability component broadly performed well and
achieved good results. Again inthe context o f an ongoing IMF program, macroeconomic
stability was maintained and overall macroeconomic performance was good. PFM,
whichreceivedthe lion's share ofprior conditions underthe entire Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC) series (PRSC Ithrough V), also didwell; while the progress made
inthe governance areawas partial anduneven. Underthe investment climate component,
financial sector development (FSD) fared well except for access to affordable credit by
SMEs andfarmers, which remaineda key constraint to employmentgenerating PSD-led
growth. As for the social services delivery component, the target o fproviding 65 percent
ofbudgetexpenditures to priority sectors was met (again, throughout the entire five
PRSC operations), and Joint Reviews o fthe Performance Assessment Framework (PAF)
bythe government and development partners ascertainedthat specific implementation
targets across most o fthe sectors concerned (education, health, water supply, and
sanitation) were broadly met, while those for agriculture andrural development made
partialand limitedprogress.

12.     The risk to the development outcome o fthese two projects is ratedmoderate, and
could have its origins ina number of factors including: (i) potential for
                                                               some
macroeconomic instability, (ii)   the availability o f funds from development partners may
become less certain, (iii)  limitedimplementationcapacity, and (iv) the potential for
deterioration ingovernance. However, as detailed inthe maintext, these risks have been
mitigated by a numberof specific factors and more general considerations relatedto
government commitment, political stability, and some significant institutional and
proceduralreforms. The Bank's and Borrower's performance are bothratedsatisfactory
throughout the preparation and implementation stages o fthe projects.

13.     Overall Evaluation andLessons. The three operations reviewed inthis report
fell within a period o ftransition inthe modality o fthe Bank's support to Mozambique's
development agenda at the core structural level; from a DPL mode represented by the
Economic Management andPrivate Sector Operation (EMPSO), to a general budget
support (GBS) mode representedby PRSC IandPRSC 11, which were followed by three
additional PRSCs that were completed by the end o f 2008, at the time this report was
being drafted. Although the achievements o f EMPSO were only partial, they were quite
encouraging and sufficient to help set the stage for introducing the GBS mode o f support,
at a time when the country was keento have it, andthe community o f development
partners had reachedthe conclusion to embrace it. As the first two such budget support
operations inMozambique, and taken together, PRSC Iand PRSC I1achieved broadly
satisfactory results; and helpedto maintainthe momentum o f commendable overall

                                                xv


macroeconomic performance, and ongoing though unevenprogress across a wide front o f
other policy areas.

14.      As a new approach that had been adopted by the donor community, the
GBSPRSC modality, which had its conceptual origin inthe Paris Declaration, arguedfor
tightly coordinated direct budget support by development partners to countries with a
proven economic development record. The country itself was expected to assumethe
leadership indrivingits own development program, andto be accountable for its
implementation. The partners, inturn, would be accountable for providing predictable
and appropriate levels o f direct budget support. Inthe case o f some partners, like
International Development Association (IDA), disbursement o f funds would be linkedto
prior actions, as opposed to conditions on any future disbursement, as inDPLs, for
example. Thus, the emphasis would essentially be on "monitoring" padongoing
performance, instead o f "motivating" anticipated performance through conditionality.

15.      As with other countries, the question has arisen inthe case o f Mozambique as to
whether this modality o f assistancehas worked well, incomparison to alternatives. In
fact, as o fthe draftingo f this report, an internal Bank study was conducting a broad,
multi-country analysis o f the subject, including a case study of the experience in
Mozambique. The comprehensive draft report o fthis case study concluded that the
PRSC has served well as an instrumentto coordinate the Bank's budgetsupport withthat
o f other general budget support financiers. The GBS is fully integrated withthe
government's PARPA. However, the current GBS set-upprevents flexibility and does
not allow focusing the policy dialogue on core policy reforms and their implementation if
they have not been already been supporting the performance assessment framework
matrix. According to this case study, this inflexibility has been relatedto the mismatch in
timingbetweenthe PAFprocess andthe Bank's own, internalreview processes. This
Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) agrees that the PRSCs have done well
as aninstrumento fpredictable budget support, and o f coordination among the partners
andthe government. The government officials interviewedby the PPARmission
certainly felt that this modality o f support recognizedthe ownership and leadrole played
bythe government, a welcome departure from the past. They also felt that the partners'
efforts, includingthose o fthe Bank,to align their support with the PAF have been
broadly successful, and appreciated.

16.      As for the inflexibility o fthe PRSC modality regardingpolicy dialogue and
implementation, opinions ofthe participants inthe process seem to have been divided.
Some o fthe participants interviewed by the PPAR missionhave felt that the instrument
has beenrather inflexible with regardto policy content. Others, while agreeing to the
timingproblems associated with monitoringpast performance insteado fmotivating
future actions, have argued that the process has still allowed for flexibility, at least in
policy dialogue, through the reviews o f ongoing PAFs, and the possible introduction o f
policy measures either innew PAFs, through parallel sector, or investment operations.
But eventhose proponents o fthe GBS/PRSC approach haveagreedthat efforts should
still be considered to make the process more flexible and responsive, particularly as new,
unforeseen developments emerge. This PPAR feels that the PRSC instrument has
worked well; and that, on balance, its advantages have outweighed its disadvantages,
which i s a view shared by the IEGcase study.

                                            xvi



Lessons

17.    The main lessons that emerge from the analysis inthis PPAR, as supplemented by
the analysis conducted inthe context o fthe Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) which
was beingcarried out simultaneously, are as follows:

     The very goodmacroeconomic performance sustained by Mozambique over the last
     two decades suggeststhat as long as the country i s following prudent andeffective
     macroeconomic stabilization and management policies inthe context o f ongoing
     IMFprograms, itis sufficient for the Bank's assistanceprogram, as has beendone
     inthe context ofthe EMPSOandthe PRSC series, to base its evaluationof
     macroeconomic developments on IMF's assessment, and to provide ancillary
     support (such as intrade policy, public expenditure allocation, and some specific
     revenue enhancing measures), without devoting major extra efforts itself across the
     whole spectrum withinthis policy area. The important thing is for the Bank to
     reach its own evaluationthat macroeconomic performance is satisfactory, without
     necessarily havingto do all the assessment itself.
     The experience o f Mozambique also suggests that the PRSC/GBS modality seems
     to have yielded broadly satisfactory results, which have been at least as good as
     alternative modalities, but with the added advantage o f havingthe country itself
     leading its development agenda andplaying a central role incoordinating the
     assistance from its development partners. The presumptiono f a proventrack
     record, while not a guarantee for continued success, i s an important pre-condition.
     Close monitoring and evaluationby the country and its partners during
     implementationi s also very important. Meanwhile, this assessment agrees with
     views expressed by a number o fparticipants inthis modality that it would be useful
     to look for ways to introduce more flexibility inthe underlying decisionprocesses,
     to allow for the incorporationo fpolicy and implementation adjustments inresponse
     to changing conditions, as needed.
     The experience o fthe financial sector andthat ofthe telecommunications andair
     transport sectors, suggeststhat accompanyingbudget support, or DPL operations,
     withrelatedTechnical Assistance (TA) may increase the chances for success.
     However, for more complicated sectors like PSD, or agricultural and rural
     development, this may not be sufficient, andthere may be a need for additional
     interventions.
     Stability inthe composition o f Bank and counterpart projectteams, and close
     involvement o f staff o fthe Bank's Office inMaputo at all stages o fproject
     preparationand implementationare important for increasing the chances o f success
     o fBank-supported operations.
     When a project seeks to achieve changes inlegislation, regulations, and processes;
     itisimportant for itto articulate well-defined and achievable results indicators that
     allow for effective monitoring o f implementation, and adjustingthe process as
     needed. Inthis context, the Bank should pay particular attentionto help in
     strengthening the Borrower's monitoring & evaluation (M&E) capacity.
     Several efforts by Mozambique and its partners to make credit more accessible to
     SMEs and micro-borrowers through more orthodox bankingpractices have not

                                                xvii


      yielded encouraging results, so far. Granted that this objective i s inherently
      difficult ina very poor country with a predominant informal/rural sector, with a low
      level o f education and training. This suggests that less orthodox and more
      innovative measures may be needed. Inview o fthe paramount importance o f
      creating employment, particularly inunderserved rural areas, political economy
      considerations may even call for some more risky measures whose social dividends
      could counterbalance any additional risks.

18.     Finally, a lessoncited inthe Simplified ICR for PRSCI,     which was particular to that
operation, was the needto take electoral cycles into consideration and avoid aiming at
approvals o fkey legislationduringelection periods (e.g., the labor andprocurement laws
were delayed becauseo fthe 2004 elections). Itis not clear to this assessmentthat, in
practical terms, it is correct to generalize this "lesson". Most countries go through various
electioncycles regularly, and oftenthese elections do delay some procedures, including
approval o f laws. Onbalance, however, it seemsthat it would be better onmany occasions
tojust live withthis fact andmove ahead, tryingto approve various measures. Keeping the
momentum andthe pressureto follow through may be the rightthingto do under some
conditions, despite ongoing elections.

19.     Recommendation. The three operations reviewedinthis report all sought to assist
the government's efforts to promote sustainable and more equitable growththrough support
for PFM, PSD, andFSD. Although progress hasbeenmade to this end, due inpartto these
three operations, but also to subsequent PRSCs; the single most importantrecommendation
o fthis assessment, inline with the main CAE finding, is for the Bank to give an even higher
priority to assist the country inits efforts to modify its growth pattern andmake itmore
inclusive and employment generating. This can be done bybuildingon the achievements so
far inthe areasofmacroeconomic performance, FSD, andPSD. Inparticular:

        0   Stronger efforts should be directed at makingcredit more accessible to SMEs
            andthe agricultural/rural sector. To this end, more attentioncouldbe directed
            at developing financial intermediationinthese areas, including through the
            promotion o f non-banking institutions and schemes like the network o ftraders
            that had operated before independence.
        0   Much stronger efforts should also be made to simplify and streamline business
            procedures and regulations; and, inparticular, to deal more imaginatively with
            the problem o f collateral.
        0   The good experience with the privatization o f the telecommunications and air
            transport sectors, as well as the good overall progress made inthe financial
            sector; argue for the use o f TA operations inparallel to budget support, or
            DPL-typeoperations. Although not a guarantee o f full success, such TA
            could prove very helpful.


                                               1


1.Backgroundand Context

Political Background

1.1     Mozambique was colonized by Portugal in 1500. It became independent on June
25, 1975, after ten years o f a guerilla campaign, ledby the Front for the Liberation o f
Mozambique (FRELIMO). The new government o f Samora Machel supported liberation
movements inboth SouthAfrica and Zimbabwe (Rhodesia, at the time). Inturn, these
two countries fostered and financedthe Mozambique National Resistance (RENAMO)
armedrebelmovement, ignitinga very costly civil war; about one millionpeople were
killed, close to two milliontook refuge inneighboring states, and several millions were
internally displaced. An already poor infrastructure was hrtherweakened, and private
enterprises nationalized, when a Marxist economic system was adopted soon after
independence. Inaddition, a mass exodus o f Portuguese nationals and Mozambicans o f
Portuguese heritage took place, depleting the new nation o f muchneeded qualified
personnel. The civil war, with its devastating effects on infrastructure and economic
production and services ingeneral; the loss o f qualified manpower; and according to
some, the imposition o f an inefficient centrally-planned economic management system
ledto a near collapse o fthe economy and society. In 1986, President Machel died ina
plane crash.

1.2     The new President, Joaquim Chissano, beganpeace talks with RENAMO and
initiated market-oriented economic reforms in 1987. A new constitution was enacted in
1990. Itprovided for a multi-partypolitical system based on free elections, and a market-
based economic system. A peace accord signed inOctober 1992 brought the civil war to
anend, andwiththe new economic management regime, signaled the beginning o fa new
era that laidthe foundations for improved economic, political and social conditions;
despite severe difficulties that were to prevail to the present day, particularly with regard
to poverty andthe devastating effects of HIV/AIDS.

1.3     On the political side, the country has moved steadily ina basically stable manner
through a number o fparliamentary, presidential, and local elections inrecent years.
FRELIMO has managedto remain ahead o f RENAMO inall these elections andhas,
therefore, maintained its control over the National Assembly, the Presidency, andthe
Cabinet; with RENAMOaccounting for a sizeable opposition party. The December 2004
parliamentaryandpresidentialelections keptupthis pattern, andArmando Guebuza, also
from FRELIMO,was elected.

Economic Background

1.4     Evenbefore the signing o fthe PeaceAccord in 1992, early efforts at economic
reformhad started in 1987. With the end o fthe civil war, and following the elections o f
1994, the Guebuza government was ina position to accelerate economic reforms. The
country was rewarded by impressive achievements at the overall macroeconomic level.
Over the 1994-99 period, real growth averaged more than 8 percent annually, and
accelerated to over 10percent, during 1999-2001;makingMozambique one ofthe fastest
growingeconomies o fthe world duringthat period. Meanwhile, inflation fell from about

                                                2


60 percent in 1994, to less than 10 percent in 1997, andbeyond. The poverty headcount
fell from almost 70 percent in 1996-97 to 54 percent in2002-03. Structural reforms were
also started; with the liberalization o fprices, the exchange rate, and external trade; and
the re-privatizationo fthe previously nationalized entities, including banks. For example,
about 800 o f 1,250 (64 percent) entities were privatized by 1997, duringthe first decade
of reforms. Very few interventionsby the government inthe agricultural sector remained
by the mid-1990s. The telecommunications sector was liberalizedconsiderably, as was
the commercial air transport sub-sector; andthroughout the nineties, import tariffs were
steadily decreasedto anaverage o f 9 percent, among the lowest inAfrica. A start was
made to liberalize and strengthen the financial sector, and early efforts were directed at
improving fiscal performance.

1.5      These rapid andsuccessful early efforts made Mozambique one o fthe most
promising Sub-Saharan countries with regard to growth and development. By 2000, it
rankedthird among 24 countries on an"optimism index" that reflectedthe views o f
international businesses active inAfrica, as reported ina World Bank country economic
review in2001. External financial assistance, inaddition to increased political stability
andthe economic reforms, madeall o fthis possible. Inaddition, a one-time significant
development that contributedto this performance was the "bounce-back" effect in
agriculture, due to a combination o ftwo factors. First, the cultivated area doubled, with
the return o f war refugees to their lands; and second, yields also doubled with the
abandonment o fthe rigid command economy infavor o fthe more flexible market
system.

1.6      Despitethis impressive record, however, a number o f very serious problems
remained at the turno fthe newmillennium. In2000, per capita income stood at only
$220, amongthe lowest inthe world. More thantwo thirds o fthe populationlivedbelow
the poverty line. About 60 percent o f the adult population (76 percent o f women) could
not read, andlife-expectancy at birthwas only 46 years. All these indicators were even
below the Sub-Saharan average. These sobering facts highlightedthe need for
maintaining highgrowth, andmore importantly, ensuring that its benefits should reach
the poorer andless-advantaged segments o fthe population. The 2001 country economic
review arguedfor aiming at a growth rate above 7 percent; since such a rate, combined
with even a moderate populationgrowth rate, would meanthat Mozambique wouldneed
a full century before it could attain current (at the time) average incomes incountries like
Mauritius, or Mexico.

Summary of PriorWorld Bank Support (1987-2002)

1.7      The Bank started its support for Mozambique inthe mid-1980'~~before the end o f
the civil war and the signing o fthe Peace Accord in 1992. The early emphasis o f lending
operations was on: general rehabilitationprojects (two operations by 1987, followed by a
third in 1989); a wide range o finfrastructureprojects invarious sectors (e.g. urban
facilities, roads and bridges, energy and power, and railways and ports); a number of
operations insocial services (mainly basic education andhealth services); a few projects
inagricultureandruralrehabilitation; andanumber offree-standing TA and capacity
buildingoperations inarangeo f sectors (e.g. finance and economic management, public

sector andthe legal institutions, transport, andnatural gas development), inaddition to a
wide range o f TA components insector, or investment operations, acrossthe board.

1.8     With the end of the civil war in 1992, a series ofthree Economic Recovery
Credits (ERCs) was initiated (the first in 1992, the secondin 1994, and the thirdin 1997),
inaddition to continuing operationsininfrastructure, agriculture, social servicesandTA
for capacity building(including a Mineral ResourceManagement Capacity Building
Project in2001, inview ofthe potential importance of this area to the economy). The
three ERCs were designedto support the country's reform agenda which focused on
macroeconomic stabilization, private sector ledgrowth, and humanresource
development. Inaddition, an Economic Managementand Reform Operation (EMRO)
was approved in 1998. This two-tranche grant provided inthe context ofthe Highly
IndebtedPoor Countries (HIPC), soughtto supportthe government's efforts to maintain a
stable macroeconomic environment andto improve public sector operations. Itconsisted
of atax andtrade reform component, and a budget managementcomponent. The first
aimed at reducingtax-induced distortions, and improvingtax andcustoms administration.
The second aimed at improvingthe coverage andtransparency ofthe budget, ensuring
funding of recurrent expenditures onhealth, education, andthe maintenanceof
infrastructure, containing civil service salaries, and improvingthe prioritization and
sustainability o fpublic expenditures, within a Medium-TermExpenditure Framework.
Finally, a FloodEmergency Recovery operation was approvedin2000 to help ameliorate
the significant adverseeffects of the flooding that year on agricultural production andthe
economy at large.

1.9     Inall, duringthis sixteen-year period(1987-2002) precedingthe start ofthethree
operations reviewed inthis report; a total o f 33 operationswere approved, averaging
about 2.1 operations per annum. The mainthrust of all this operational support was on
helping Mozambique: (i)    rehabilitate and recover from the devastating effects of the civil
war, (ii)set up and strengtheninstitutions and processes requiredfor nationbuilding, and
(iii) thetransitionfromacommandtoamarketeconomy,inanefforttopromote
    start
higher growth to alleviate poverty.

1.10    The analytical and advisory work (AAA) completedbythe Bank during the 1987-
2002 periodbasically underpinnedits operational program and its policy dialogue with
the government. During the earlier years, it focusedheavily on sector analyses insuch
areas as: energy/electricity, agriculture and fisheries, manufacturing and SME
development, foreign investment, telecommunications, poverty reduction, environmental
issues, health, and water resourcemanagement. Surprisingly, untilthe 2001 country
economic review, it seems that hardly any overarching formal economic work hadbeen
completed. A first of atwo-phase public expendituresmanagementreviewwas
completedin2001;andbotha financial accountability assessment and an investment
climate assessment were completed in2002.

1.11    Inaddition to lending operationsandAAA, theBankprovided support intwo
other important areas: external debt consolidation and reduction, and aid coordination. It
providedtechnical support for Mozambique's Paris Club debt-rescheduling agreements
(thefifthsuchagreementwas concluded inNovember 1996), and also approvedanHIPC
debt-reductionpackagefor which Mozambique reached the completion point inJune

                                                4


1999. The completion point for an enhanced HIPC was reached inSeptember 2001. The
total debt reliefreceived exceeded $2 billion innet present value terms. As for aid
coordination, the 1997 CAS, covering the fiscal year 1998-2000 period, included
"Strengthening Development Partnerships" as one o f its three strategic pillars.
Mobilizing and coordinating aid was one o f the mainobjectives under this pillar, and
remainedan important objective for the Bank insubsequent periods, one that was met
withconsiderable success, as demonstrated under the PRSCs.

ConcludingRemarkon the OverallContextfor the Three Operations

1.12    The three operations reviewed inthis report (EMPSO, PRSC I,       andPRSC 11)
were approved inAugust 2002, July 2004, and September 2005, respectively. The PRSC
series hadbeen originally envisaged to consist o f four annual, single-tranche operations.
However, due to timing considerations regardingPARPA 11, it was reducedto three, with
a second set o fthree PRSCs to coincide with PARPA 11. Then, due to timing
considerations regardingsome co-financiers andthe country's budgetarycycle, the first
series was further reduced to two operations, and PRSC I1was modified into a two-
tranche operation; although it still closed inJune 2006, withinonly nine months o f its
approval. Ineffect, therefore, the three operations covered inthis review spanned a four-
year period, fiom about mid-2002 to mid-2006; and more significantly for the purposes
o fthis review, they more or less shared the common background and context summarized
inthe three previous sections ofthis chapter. Inview ofthis observation, andinthe
interest o f avoiding wasteful repetition, this chapter provides a common overall
background and context. Incase o f any developments which are not reflected inthis
chapter andthat were significant for a specific operation, they are reflected inthe
respective chapter covering that operation.

1.13    Tosummarize, at the turno fthe millennium, Mozambique had suffered heavily
through a destructive civil war duringits first fifteen years o f independence starting in
1975. With the signing o fthe PeaceAccord in 1992, the government was able to start
directing its efforts at economic stabilization, reconstruction, and growth; while itmade
the painful but rewarding fundamental changes, from a command to a market economy,
and from a colonialist past andsevere civil conflict to peace and a multi-party
democracy. The efforts paid off. Overall macroeconomicperformance duringthe
nineties was impressive, as was the reductioninpoverty that was achieved. A significant
start and initial progress was made inseveral important areas o f structural reforms; and
by 2002, the country haddeveloped a very favorable track record as an achiever and
effective recipient o f international aid. Itwas judgedby the donor community as poised
for further growth and development, and was ready for a new generation o f operations to
help deepen economic reform, and deal with the still very highlevel o fpoverty and very
low level o f social development. For the World Bank, the three operations reviewed in
this report were completely consistent with its strategy for assisting the government in
attaining this end, as will be discussed inthe next chapter.

                                              5


2.      DevelopmentandAssistance Strategies

2.1     This chapter presents the strategic context, both fkom the standpoint o f
Mozambique and the Bank's assistance to the country; at the time o f inception o f
EMPSO, PRSC I,andPRSC 11,roughly from 2002 to 2005. As with the overall political
and economic background and context, given the short period over which the three
operations were implemented inrelation to the time normally neededto change strategic
considerations, the three operations essentially shared a common strategic context.

Mozambique's Strategic Orientationand Framework

2.2     The overarching strategic economic development objective o fthe government at
the turn o fthe millenniumwas to promote growth inorder to reduce poverty andimprove
the general well-beingo fthe Mozambican people. This broad objective guided the
design o fthe medium-termFive-Year Development Program (FYDP) for 2000-04, which
incorporatedthe government's interim PARPA for the identical period. This action plan
was endorsed by the Bank and the IMFinMarch 2000 and was accepted to serve as the
country's interim PRSP. An updated PARPA I1(2001-05) was completed inApril 2001,
andwas again endorsed bythe Bank andthe IMFinAugust 2001 as Mozambique's first
fullPRSP, allowing the country to achieve the enhanced HIPC completionpoint.

2.3     The three main pillarso f the FYDP were: (i)    increasingeconomic opportunities
by generating poverty-reducing and employment-creatinggrowth, through the private
sector; (ii)improving governance and empowerment through a more effective public
sector, improvingthe rule o f law, and promoting greater accountability andtransparency;
and(iii) improving humancapabilities by strengthening the delivery o f social services
andsafety nets. Implicit inthe first pillarwas the maintenance o fmacroeconomic
stability which is often an essential pre-requisite for sustained growth. Another related
objective to growth was to decrease the dependence on external financial assistance
which had been one o fthe highest inthe world. These strategic pillars were translated
into specific policies, measures, and some quantitative targets andtriggers designed to
meet the stated objectives, and captured ina number o f government planningand
monitoring documents.

The World Bank'sAssistanceStrategy

2.4     The Bank's assistance strategy for the period coveringthe three operations was
articulatedintwo CASs: the June 2000 CAS covering fiscal year 2001-03, and the
October 2003 CAS covering fiscal year 2004-07.

2.5     The 2000 CAS,by explicit designand inagreement with the government, adopted
the identical three pillars o fthe FYDP: increasing economic opportunities, improving
governance and empowerment, and improving humancapabilities. Infact, the drafting o f
this CAS meshed into itthe main substantive content ofthe FYDP by statinghow each o f
the major program objectives was to be assisted by specific Bank operations, or services.
The CAS went further and harmonized its targets and performance indicators withthe
monitoring plano fthe FYDPand the PARPA.

                                               6


2.6     According to this CAS, the three common pillars were to be achievedby policies
andmeasures inanumber ofkeyareas as follows:

2.7     Pillar I: Increasing economic opportunitieswas expected to be achievedby: (i)
strengthening the private sector environment andthe financial sector; (ii)  developing
infrastructure; (iii)
                    promoting rural development and agriculture; (iv) ensuring sound
environmentalmanagement; and (v) promoting innovation, competitiveness and
employment.

2.8     Pillar 11:Improving governance and empowermentwas expected to be achieved
by: (i)reforming the public sector; and (ii)  improving the rule o f law.

2.9     Pillar 111:Increasing human capabilities was expected to be achievedby: (i)
containing and reducingthe impact o f HIV/AIDS; (ii)      improving health; (iii)
                                                                                improving
education; and (iv) improving social protection.

2.10    The CAS thenwent onto describe how specific productswithin the Bank's
proposed assistanceprogram for the fiscal year 2001-03 period, ineach ofthe key policy
areas, would meet the main objectives o fthe three common pillars. Inparticular, the first
o fthe three operations reviewed inthis report, the EMPSO, was introduced in this CAS,
underthe first itemo fits first pillar, dealing withthe strengthening o fthe private and
financial sectors.

2.11     The2003 CASwas a rather voluminous document, consisting o f45 pages o ftext
andalmost 80 pages o fannexes. Itincluded auseful evaluationo fprogress under the
2000 CAS andthe PARPA. The mainlessons learned from this evaluation, inline with
those o fthe Completion Report for the 2000 CAS, were: (i) Bankneeded to be more
                                                              the
strategic and selective inits support; (ii)the design o f Bank-supportedprojects should be
simple, inview o fthe country's limitedimplementationcapacity; (iii)     recurring cross-
cutting implementation risks needed to be realistically assessedand consistently
addressed; (iv) the Bank Group needed to improve monitoring its own results, and its
assistanceto the government inmonitoring its PARPA results; and (v) the development
partners needed to make a greater effort to improve the alignment o ftheir support with
the PARPA, and to assist the government inimproving its implementation capacity.

2.12    Inlinewiththe last lesson, this CAS gave adetailed account ofthe elaborate
consultative process that had been involved inits preparationamong a wide range o f
stakeholders: the government, the donors, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the
private sector, and opinion leaders. Several lengthy meetings were also held among the
Bank, International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee
Agency (MIGA)to coordinate and align their respective andjoint assistance. The CAS
also briefly highlighted some areas inwhich it disagreed with the government on how
some issues should be handled; such as labor regulations, landuse, the divestiture o f
state-owned enterprises, and the pace o freform inthe legal and regulatory area.

2.13    The PRSCseries was introduced in this CASas a group o f operations that would
be ideal for promotingthe desired improvement incoordination efforts amongthe
government and the donors (the Group o f 11,in2003; which subsequently grew into the

                                              7


Group o f 19). This coordination took on a very practical shape when it was agreed in
September 2003 that the government would develop a Performance Assessment
Framework (PAF); a "matrix of policy and institutional reforms, with results-focused
monitoring indicators and progress benchmarks, for which the government is prepared to
be heldto account, and against which donors would agree to provide budget support in
more predictable ways" (Box 7,page 22 o fthe 2003 CAS).

2.14     As withthe other CASs for Mozambique, the 2003 CAS also hadthree strategic
pillars. They were: (i)  improving the investment climate; (ii) expanding service delivery,
both to businesses and to thepoor, and (iii)  buildingpublic sector capacity and
accountability structures. These pillars were essentially the same as those o fthe 2000
CAS, as was natural to a great extent, and freely admitted inthis CAS. The main
improvements sought, based on the experience with the previous CAS, were to embed
this CAS ina muchmore coordinated framework among the government and the large
group o f donors, andto put muchmore emphasis on accountability o f all concerned,
through the PAF andits process. Interms o f substance, the intentwas to deepen and
broaden the ongoing reforms that had been started under the previous CASs.

The Strategic Fit of the Three ReviewedOperations

2.15     Itis worth notingthat the overall strategic orientationo fthe government's
economic development program, as supported by the donor community, remained
essentially unchanged andappropriate from the nineties to the present. This is evident
from a review o fthe November 1997 CAS, coveringthe fiscal year 1998-2000period; as
well as the April 2007 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), covering the FY08-11 period.
Boththese documents sought to support the government's overarching objective o f
reducing poverty through: sustained growth ledby the private sector, providing improved
social services, and improving public sector performance and accountability; although the
specific wording o f these three fundamental pillars was slightly different.

2.16     In summary, the Bank's assistance strategy over the periodreviewed inthis
review (and, infact prior to that) was very closely aligned with the government's own
overall economic development strategy andplans. The alignment became even closer
throughout the period, as implementationmatrices andbenchmarks were also meshed;
andgreater coordinationamongthe large group of donors ensured that the alignment
includedthe assistance strategies o f all concerned. Interms o f content, the two CASs
essentially shared the same strategic objectives and covered the same policy areas. The
overall intent was to assist the government inits efforts to promote growth inorder to
improve the country's standard o f living and to reduce poverty. This was to be achieved
primarily through maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment; andpromoting
private sector initiative, particularly for SME-sized domestic enterprises, and in
agriculture. To that end, public sector performance neededto be improved through
capacity buildingmeasures, better governance, and administrative decentralization; the
financial sector needed to be strengthened and developed; andhumanresources needed to
be developed through the provision o f education and health services. Very close
coordination among the government and its development partners, including the Bank,
would help mobilize the needed level o f financial assistance and increase the chances o f
its efficient use. The first operation reviewed inthis report had its origin inthe 2000

                                             8


CAS, andthe last two (originally expected to be four, butcompressedto two for
practical, inter-donor timing considerations, as well the desire to align the second set o f
three PRSCswith the government's PARPA I1cycle) hadtheir origin inthe 2003 CAS.
The first was subsumed under the growth strategic pillar, which called for improving the
business environment to promote private sector development. The PRSCs included
components corresponding to all three strategic pillars o fthe CASs.

                                                9


3. Economic Management and Private Sector Operation
    (EMPSO)

Backgroundand Context at Appraisal

3.1     Over the six years previous to the preparationo fthis operation (1996-200l),
Mozambique's overall economic performance had been impressive. Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) growth had averaged about 9 percent annually, that o fper capita gross
national product (GNP) about 7 percent, and exports about 20 percent. Inflationhad been
reduced dramatically from about 57 percent in 1996 to single-digit levels. The flooding in
2000 and2001 briefly interruptedthis trend. Growth dippedtemporarily and, due to flood
relatedemergency expenditures andthe need to recapitalize the two largest commercial
banks over this same period, inflation increased to about 22 percent. At the time this
operationwas beingprepared, the economy was expected to start re-stabilizing and
inflation to drop to about 13 percent by end-2003.

3.2     In2001,the government preparedthe PARPAwhich, amongother goals, aimedat
reducing absolute poverty from 70 percent in 1997, to 60 percent in2005, and by 50
percent in2010. PARPA's development strategy focused on economic growth, public
investment inhumancapital and infrastructure, and on institutional andpolicy reforms to
improve the environment for private investment. Growth was expected to be driven by
large-scale, capital-intensive projects financed by private foreign investors; productivity
gains inagriculture andmanufacturing; and expansion ininternal trade, transport, and
services. The PARPA highlighted six priority areas for action: health, education,
infrastructure, agriculture and rural development, governance, and macroeconomic and
financial policies. It also delineated specific policy measures ineach priority area, and
established targets andmilestones inan operational matrix.

ProjectObjectivesand Design

3.3     Inaccordance withthe PARPAstrategy andobjectives, the EMPSO aimed
basically at improving public sector management andthe environment for private
investment. As mentioned inthe previous chapter, these objectives were entirely consistent
withboththe government's FYDPandthe Bank's 2000 CAS, bothofwhich shared
identical strategic pillars. The project was essentially a DPL that addressed a relatively
wide range o fpolicy areaswithinthese two broadcomponents. The specific details o f
these policy areas were discussed inthe project's President's Report o f August 2,2002,
listed ina Policy and Processing Matrix inAnnex 1o fthat report; and addressed inthe
government's Letter o f Development Policy (LDP). They were predicated on the need to
consolidate macroeconomic stability as a pre-requisite for sustained growth. Beyond that
andunder the public sector management component, the mainareas covered included: (a)
expanding the budget's coverage to include the own receipts (receitasproprias) ofthe
ministries, and expenditures funded by development partners; (b) disseminating the
findings o fa recently completedpublicexpenditure review by the Bank; and(c) tax reform
measures to decrease the level o f effective protection. Underthe PSD component, the main
areas included: (a) a broad set o f financial sector reform measures for both bankingand

                                                 10


non-banking institutions designed to avoid a financial crisis that had been looming, and lay
the foundations for a healthy development o fthis sector; (b) measures to improve the
performance o fthe telecommunications, air transport andpetroleum sectors; and (c) legal
andjudicial sector reforms.

3.4      The Policy and Processing Matrix gave a detailed listing ofthe mainpolicies to be
addressedby the project. It also listed intermediate benchmarks regarding actions expected
to be taken by August 2002, some o f which were used as conditions for Board presentation
andthe release ofthe first tranche o fthe credit; as well as intermediatebenchmarks
regardingactions expected to be taken by end 2002, some o fwhichwere usedas conditions
for the release o fthe second tranche o f the credit. Annex Iof this report gives a listingo f
the first and secondtranche conditions. These are also presented briefly inthe following
paragraphs.

3.5      Macroeconomicstability: For boththe first andsecond tranches, the main
condition requiredthe maintenance ofthe overall macroeconomic targets defined inthe
context o fthe IMF-supported Poverty Reduction Grant Facility (PGRF) operation, ongoing
at the time (e.g. inflation to be keptunder 7 percent per annum, maintenance o f a
competitive exchange rate, and keepingthe domestic primary budget deficit below 3
percent o f GDP). Inaddition, and as a first tranche condition, the Cabinet was expected to
pass a new code o f fiscal incentives for investment,rationalizing these incentives and
reducing revenue losses.

3.6      Public Financial Management: (A) Firsttranche conditions: (i)         establishment o f
anactionplanfor the reporting o fdonor funds using data from sectoral ministries; (ii)
drafting o f a strategic integrated planfor the reform o fthejudicial sector (by negotiations),
andthe final planfor the reform o fthe Ministryo fJustice. (B) Second tranche conditions:
(i)obtaining data on monthly off-budget revenues (receitas proprias) by public institutions,
computing estimates for the year, andincorporating all such estimates into the fiscal year
2003 budget plans; and (ii)    reporting donor-funded expenditures, usingthe new financial
classification, as statistical annexes inthe budget execution reports, startingwith the report
for the first quarter o f fiscal year 2002.

3.7      Private SectorDeveZopment: (A) Firsttranche conditions: (i)number o f measures
                                                                           a
regardingthe further recapitalization o fBanco International de Mocambique (BIM),listed
inAnnex I;(ii)    issuance of a monitorable bad debt collection action planfor Banco Austral
(bynegotiations), includingthe use o f "execuseosfiscals ",with monitoring through the
publication inthe quarterly budget executionreports; (iii)    issuance o f a decree on external
auditing o f financial institutions; (iv) submission to Parliament o f a legal amendment
ending TDM's monopoly on international services; (v) enactment by the Cabinet o f a new
air policy; and (vi) drafting o f a strategic integrated planfor the reform o fthe judicial
sector (by negotiations), andthe final planfor the reform o fthe Ministry o f Justice. (B)
Second tranche conditions: (i)     receiving a report by a specialist that would have assessed
BIM, andtransmittal o fsuchreport to the Bank; (ii)      transmittalto the Bank o f a list o f
banks that would have received letters from Banco de Mocambique (BM- ( the central
bank), specifyingtheir respective compliance, or non-compliancewithprudential
regulations for their end-June 2002 accounts, includingappropriate corrective action, as
needed; (iii)  completing an independent audit o fthe state-owned Empresa Mocambicana

                                                11


de Seguros (EMOSE) insurance company accounts, and appointing consultants to start an
independent actuarial analysis o fthe Instituto Nacional de SegurancaSocial (INSS), the
state pensionfund; (iv) submissionto the National Assembly o f a law, satisfactory to the
Bank, covering the telecommunications sector policy; (v) appointment o finvestment
advisors for the privatization o fLinhas Aereas de Mocambique (LAM, the state-owned
airlines); and (vi) approval o fthe final strategic integrated planfor the reform o fthe
judicial sector, and submittingit to the Bank.

3.8     Although primarilyo f a procedural, institutional, and administrative nature; these
conditions were judged generally appropriate at this relatively early stage, to lay the
foundations for further andmore substantive progress inimproving public financial
management andprivate sector development. Inturn, the first tranche conditions were
intendedto initiate actions that would leadto the implementation o fthe second tranche
conditions.

ImplementationExperience and Outcome

3.9     The ICR for this operationconcluded that the overall achievement o f outputs, and
therefore the broad outcome o fthe project, was satisfactory. However, when the ICR
proceeded to give a rather candid assessment o f actual achievements, on a component by
component basis, the results were mixed andpartial, at best (pages 7-11o f the ICR). For
example, only limitedprogress had beenachieved inincorporating off-budget items within
the budget, althoughprogress wasjudged to be continuing inthis regard. Similarly, the
treatment andreporting o f donorfunding within the budget was judged to be o f generally
poor quality that did not properly allow for the tracking o f the funds to specific
expenditures; yet the ICR concurred that the second tranche condition governing this item
hadbeenachieved. With regardto the development o f the legal andjudicial sector, the
ICR concurredwith thejudgment o fthe government andthe donors expressed duringa
joint review o fthe PAF, that progress hadbeen very slow, and only initial steps hadbeen
taken. Manyproblems and issues remained, including a highlevel ofpending unresolved
cases, and lack o fprogress inmatters related to collateral and the enforcement o f contracts.
Such slow andpartial progress was correctly judged by the ICR as having a debilitating
effect on private sector development, a major area o f focus for this operation.

3.10    Inthe financial sector, wherethe operation's objectivesincludedthe avoidance ofa
major financial crisis inview o fworrisome developments inthe sector, progress was
started, but also remainedpartial and mixed. The assessment of the BIM Group was
viewed by boththe government andthe Group itself as an important achievement. For
example, it showed that no capital injectionwas needed for BIM, as hadbeen feared. The
assessmentreport, which fell short o fthe Bank's initial desire for a forensic audit, did not
identifyany mismanagement, or wrong-doing. However, it failed to explain what might
have ledto the financial problems to begin with. Inaddition, although it was delivered to
the Attorney General's Office, it did not leadto any substantive results.

3.11 A waiver hadto be given by the Bankregardingthe condition requiringcompliance
withInternational Accounting Standards (IAS) by the bankingsystem, and therefore, the
ICR considered this condition only partially achieved. According to the ICR, this
requirement hadproved unrealistic inretrospect, inview o f capacity constraints. The

                                              12


waiver was granted on the grounds that the ongoing practice o f closely monitoring
prudentialratios, andtakingcorrective action when necessary, was a favorable
consideration; andthat the government was makingprogress indeveloping plans for all
banksto be incompliancewith IAS. Inthe event, technical assistance was subsequently
required for the desired IAS conversion, andfor conducting diagnostic reviews o f four
major banks, including BIM.

3.12     As for the remaining conditions governing the financial sector, a satisfactory
independentaudit ofthe insurance company EMOSEwas completed, butthe actuarial
analysis o f the INSSstatepension fund was delayed, and ended up requiring the hiringo f a
consulting company to assist with buildingand operating the requisite database.

3.13     The progress made intelecommunications sector was good. A telecommunications
law was passed, which endedthe state monopoly Telecommunications Authority o f
Mozambique (TDM). It allowed for the separation o f TDM andMCel (a mobile phone
company) as independent firms, and for the entrance o f a newmobile phone company. As
a result, mobile telephones spread rapidly among different segments o fthe population, and
regions o fthe country.

3.14     Competition also increased inthe air transport sector, with the entrance o f two
private competitors to Linhas Aereas de Mocambique (LAM,the previous state monopoly
air carrier). Plans and actions had also been underway to privatize LAM, but have been in
abeyance.

3.15     Inview ofthe above remarks, the ICR's conclusionthat the achievement o fthe
operation's overall objectives and outputs was satisfactory was too favorable. To begin
with, the tranche conditionsthemselves were, by andlarge, not very demanding, nor
onerous; andalthough progress was made, it fell considerably short o f the relatively modest
expectations. As a result, this review agrees with the assessment of an IEGreview (inearly
2005)' and considers that the operation's outcome was only moderately satisfactory.

3.16     According to the ICR, it seems that implementationo fthe financial sector and PSD
components o fthis operation suffered from a highdegree o fpassive resistance by previous
highlevelpoliticianswho endedupas the newelites o fthe private sector, headingsome o f
the recently privatized banks. These individuals resisted subjecting their new entities to
financial scrutiny, and were ina position to easily deflect efforts o fthe technical
supervisors who hadbeen their subordinates inthe civil service. Other factors highlighted
bythe ICRthat also stood inthe way o fbetter implementationincludedthe complexity in
the design o f some o fthe proposed measures; combined with inadequate capacity, andpoor
sequencing insome cases.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

3.17     Although institutional development (ID) impact i s no longer rated separately in
PPARs, this report felt it would be useful to address this areabriefly for this project, since
at the time that the ICR and the IEGreview were completed, it was discussed separately in
these documents. This review agrees with boththe ICR andthe IEGreview that the
institutional development impact o fthis operation was modest. Although the operation did

                                              13


not include a stand-alone IDcomponent as such, most of the components o fthe project
contained IDdesign elements; or duringtheir implementation, had a modest, positive
impact on the development o f local institutions. Ofparticular note were: (i) the enhanced
role o fthe Financial Management Information System (SISTAFE) inconnection withthe
implementationo fthe public management component o fthe project; (ii)      the establishment
o fthe Technical Unitfor the Reform o fthe Legal Sector (UTREL), which could
subsequently help unify the fragmented approach to the development of the sector; and (iii)
the inclusion of public finance management, governance, and private sector development
withinthe PAFframework anddiscussions. A number o fother developments also
contributed modestly to improved institutional performance, such as: the improved
reporting o fministerial receipts and o f donor funds which improved transparency; and the
improved capacity and willingnessto undertake supervision o fthe performance o f banks
which strengthened the Central Bank's capacity inthis important area. All these ID
improvementswere expected to be further consolidated under the thenforthcoming PRSC
series.

Riskto DevelopmentOutcome(Sustainability)

3.18    This review agrees with both the ICR and the IEGreview that the sustainability
(which was still beingrated separately inICRs and IEGreviews at the time) o f the results
achievedunder this operation was likely. Onthe overall strategic and policy levels,
previous successive governments had demonstrated their broad commitment to following
through with reforms designed to improve the performance o fpublic sector management
andprivate sector development; bothintheir published strategic andplanningdocuments,
as well as intheir policy discussions with the Bank and other donors. The political climate
had beenstable, and prospects for continuedpolitical stability were considered fair at the
time, withthe international community showingcontinued interest insupporting the
consolidation o fthe democratic process. Despite some resistance by specific interest
groups to some policy measures, particularly duringthe start-up o f the reforms; there had
hardlybeenany strong, politicized opposition to the reformprogram as a whole. The
passage o f some key legislation andthe setting up o f new institutions, frameworks,
regulations, andprocesses were not likely to be reversed, as a general trend. These
considerations leadthis review to rate the risk to the development outcome o fthe project as
moderate; particularly since the Bank and other donors were geared to improvetheir
coordination and follow through with considerable additional support for the country's
economic reform efforts, through the then forthcoming PRSC series, and other instruments.

BankPerformance

3.19    The ICR and the IEGreview ratedthe Bank's overall performance as satisfactory.
The ICR argued that the design o fthe operationwas completely consistent with the
government's development strategy, andthe Bank's assistance strategy. The specific
components andmeasures selected as conditions for the disbursement o fthe second tranche
were alsojudged to have beeninkey policy areas, insupport ofthese strategies. Itwas
arguedthat Bank staff could have beenmore realistic intheir expectations regarding
matters like the imposition o f IAS on the banking system over a short period, or forensic
audits o f banks. Instead, the ICR argued, the Bank could have provided technical
assistance to helpguide the introduction o fthese measures, rather than give the impression

                                                14


to the authorities that measures ought to have been immediately implemented. The
operationwas closely supervised by the Bank with four project status reports. Inaddition,
staff o fthe Bank's Office inMaputo met regularly with counterpart officials to review
progress. This assessment agrees withthe ICR and the IEGreview that the Bank's overall
performancemeritsa rating o fsatisfactory for the same reasons cited inbothdocuments.

Borrower Performance

3.20     As with the Bank's performance, the ICR andthe IEGreview bothalso ratedthe
government's overall performance as satisfactory. The ICR argued that the implementing
agencies for this operation, boththe government and the Central Bank, assigned competent
personnel, though small innumber consideringthe paucity o fprofessionals inthe country,
who collaboratedvery closely and openly with the Bank; andtheir stable tenure intheir
positions provided continuity andpredictability duringproject preparationand
implementation. All relevant information was made available to the Bank, with few
exceptions like the purchase contract for Banco Austral. Training was provided to relevant
staffthat enabled them to extend their experience to working with the private sector. Still,
the preparationo fthe project took a longtime, partly due to the resistance by managers in
the financial sector to subjecting their institutionsto full forensic audits, which the Bank
hadto reluctantly abandon. Again, this assessment agrees with the ICR andthe IEGreview
that the Borrower's overall performance merits a rating o f satisfactory for the same reasons
cited inboth documents.

                                              15


4. FirstPoverty ReductionSupportCredit (PRSC I)

Background and Context at Appraisal

4.1     The overall backgroundand context for this operationhas already beenpresented
inthe first chapter o fthis report. Inadditionto that presentation, there were two
developments that modifiedthe overall context o fthe PRSC series itself. First, the series
embodiedthe introduction o fprogrammatic budget support by the Bankto Mozambique;
andsecond, it did so inthe context o fa more tightly coordinated support by a growing,
relatively large group o f international donors, which hadreached fifteen members at the
time this operationwas being prepared. The series couldalso build on the initial, though
partial, progress achieved under EMPSO inthe areas of: macroeconomic management,
the investmentclimate for private initiative, andlaying the foundations for legal and
judicial reform.

4.2     The PRSC series was also designed to be completely coherent with the
government's PARPA, and the Bank's 2004 CAS; which inturn, was closely aligned
withthe PARPA,andconsistent withthe assistancestrategies ofmost major donors
operating inthe country. Moreover, the series benefited from very close cooperation
withthe IMF, including inthe area o ftracking public expendituresinthe context o fthe
HIPC initiative. Finally, the series was based on a burst o f analytical work by the Bank
completed duringthe few years prior to its the initiation, including: a country economic
review (FYOl), two public expenditures management reviews(FYO1and 03), a country
financial accountability assessment (FY02), a country procurement assessmentreview
(FY03), an investment climate assessment (FY03), a financial sector assessment (FY03),
and a poverty assessment(FY04).

4.3     The series was also seen by the Bank andthe government as falling within a
continuum o f Bank support for the government's economic rehabilitation, recovery, and
reformprogramsthat had been initiated inthe late 1980s and early 1 9 9 0 ~ ~ expected
                                                                            and
to be supported by a second PRSC series duringthe second half o fthe 2000s.

Project Objectivesand Design

4.4     The overall objective ofthe series as a whole was to deepen the Bank's support
for the government's efforts to reduce poverty by promoting growth and employment,
andstrengthening governance andPFM. More specifically, PRSC Iaimed at assisting in:
(i)buildingpublic sector capacity andaccountability, (ii)  improving the investment
climate, and (iii)expanding service delivery inthe education sector.

    (i)     Buildingpublicsector capacity and accountabilitywas to be achieved
            through: (a) maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework; (b)
            strengtheningpublic sector financial management by improving budget
            formulation, execution and reporting, reducing aid dependency by increasing
            tax revenues, andimproving M& E, particularly regardingthe impact o f
            government programson poverty; and (c) improvinggovernance by
            strengtheningprocurementprocedures, reforming public sector institutions,

                                                 16


             promoting decentralization, reducing corruption, and reforming the legal
             sector.

    (ii)     Improving the investmentclimatewas to be achieved through: (a)
             strengthening the financial sector, (b) improvingthe regulatory environment
             by reducingtrade tariffs, surveyingthe time needed for and cost o fbusiness
             start-upsto assess steps neededfor improvementswhich could then be
             included insubsequent operations, andestablishing a tripartite body
             (consisting o f the government, private sector and labor unions) to propose
             reforms to improve labor mobility; and (c) improving infrastructure services
             intelecommunications, electricity, andnaturalresource useinorder to
             improve the environment.

    (iii)    Expanding service delivery in education by improving school construction
             andexpanding capacity.

ImplementationExperience

4.5      A SimplifiedICR, dated November 29,2005, basically applauded what it
perceived as a broadly successful operation, despite a few lapses and delays in some
areas, mainly attributed to presidential andparliamentaryelections. Italso concluded
that, at the time o f its drafting, it was too early to evaluate outcomes and achievements in
some areas o fthe project, like developments inthe business climate. These matters were
subsequently covered inthe full, and muchmore comprehensive, ICR for PRSC 11, dated
January 17,2007, and evaluated the achievements o fthe two operations together.

4.6      As a single tranche operation, the disbursement ofthe entire credit amount ($60
million equivalent) was conditionedby a list ofprior actions that hadto be completed
before effectiveness (Annex I).      As it turnedout, the prior actions were all completed
before Boardpresentation on July 6,2004. The specific prior actions completed under
the respective components o fthe project, andinline with the government's Letter o f
Development Policy (LDP), were as follows:

4.7      On themacroeconomicfront, the Bankandthe IMFconsidered that overall
macroeconomic performance during2003 and2004 hadbeen sound. GDP had grown by
12.8 percent in2003, and 7.2 percent in2004. Inflation had declined to just over 9
percent by end2004, despite a relaxation inthe fiscal stance due to the elections at the
time. The current account deficit on the external account had dropped by about a third,
andhadreachedjust below 14percent o f GDPby end 2004. Interestrates had also
continued to decline duringthis period, although they remained high.

4.8     On thePFMfront, almost 65 percent ofbudget expenditures (excluding interest
andspending onthe elections) was expended onpriority, poverty-reducing sectors
(education, health, water supply and sanitation), inaccordance with the PARPA.
SISTAFE regulations were adopted, and its first phase became operational, with the
adoption o f anelectronic system o f control over the government's bank accounts. The
technical Unit for the Public FinancialManagement Reform Program (UTRAFE) was
established, and the Data Processing Center was strengthened. Measures to increase

                                              17


revenues were implemented. These included automatic fuel tariff adjustments, andtax
withholding for government employees; actions that increased revenues by about 0.7
percent o f GDP in2003. Although revenues in2004 were expected at the time to
decline, they were also expected to rebound by almost double the 2004 drop, in2005. In
the area o fpublic sector reform, the following measures were completed: (i) time
                                                                                the
taken to register landwas reduced to below 90 days; (ii)   a new regulatory framework was
adopted to expedite industrial registration; (iii)
                                                 visas started to be issued at the borders for
visitingworkers from neighboring countries; (iv) a decentralizationlaw was approved
(the Local State Organs Law), which provided for increased autonomy o f a district
authority as a budget entity; and (v) an anti-corruption law was approved.

4.9     On the investment climatefront, top import duties on consumptiongoods were
reduced from 30 to 25 percent.

4.10    Finally, other thanthe 65 percent budgetary requirement covering priority social
sectors, no prior actions coveringthe service delivery component o fthe project were
included.

4.11    Details o f specific measures and benchmarks covering all project areas were
described inthe Program Document for this operation (pages 31-64), and listed ina
Program Matrix, which is annexed to the ProgramDocument.

4.12    According to the Simplified ICR, four factors affectedthe implementation o fthe
project; three positively, and one negatively. On the positive side, the cross-sectoral
design was cited, but it was not explainedwhy it had a positive contribution. The second
factor involved the wide and good coordination among the donors. Onbalance, this
seemedto reduce the overall burden on the government o f dealing with individual
donors; and more importantly, ledto a more unified effort inthe assistance they provided,
andas such, mighthave possiblyledto ahigher level o fdonor funds. The thirdpositive
factor was the fact that the government andthe donors used the same documentation that
was submittedto the Parliament for its assessment and budget support for the project.
This hadthe effect of applying pressure onthe government to improve the quality o fthe
documentation it provided to the Parliament, andmore importantly, increasing its
accountability toward it. On the negative side, the presidential and parliamentary
elections held inDecember 2004 delayed the approval o f the labor andprocurement laws
andthe finalization o fthe 2005 budget, which was not approveduntilMay ofthat year.
Still, most o fthe PAFtargets were met, and the newly elected government affirmed its
commitment to move aheadwith the reforms at an accelerated pace.

Outcome

4.13    The Simplified ICR touched briefly only on the outcome o fthis operation.
Instead, the full ICR for PRSC I1dealt with this topic more comprehensively, and ina
combined manner for the two operations. The IEGreview for PRSC Ialso considered
this matter briefly and concluded that the achievements o fthe first two components
(dealing with public sector capacity and accountability, and the investment climate) were
substantial, but the achievements o fthe third component (expandingservice delivery)
were only modest.

                                             18


4.14    Buildingpublic sector capacity and accountability: Real GDP growth averaged
more than 7 percent for 2004 and2005. This growth continued the very good trend o fthe
previous few years, and as a result, a 2004 country economic review estimatedthat the
proportion o fthe populationbelow the poverty line declined from an average of 69
percent during1996-2002, to 54 percent during 2003-05. Inflation declined sharply from
12.6 percent to 6.3 percent over 2004-05. Nominal interest rates declined moderately
from an average of 22 percent to 19.5 percent over the same period, but the sharp decline
ininflationimpliedthat realratesincreasedsignificantly. According to IMFsources, the
domestic primary deficit declined by 2 percent o f GDP in2005, due to an increase o f 1.5
percent o f GDP inrevenues, and a decline o f 0.5 percent o f GDP inexpenditures. The
integrated financial management system (SISTAFE) was being implemented, with a roll-
out to key ministries expected by mid-2006, andto all other ministries and other levels o f
government by 2007. M& E startedto improve, but at a slow pace. External aid relative
to GDP declined steadily from 15.7 percent in2003, to 14.5 percent in2004, and 13.5 in
2005. Public spending on priority sectors had been targetedat 65 percent o f the total
throughout the 2003-05 period; this target was basically met in2003, but actual
expenditures subsequently fell slightly short, andwere 63.3 inboth2004 and 2005. More
efforts were dedicated to public accounting and auditing, but no evidence o f
improvements had beennoticed yet at the close o fthis operation. Measures started under
PRSC Ito improve procurement ledto the adoption and implementation, though behind
schedule, o f a procurement law under PRSC 11. The adoption o f a commercial code was
delayed, but eventually took place under PRSC 11. The integrated legal planfor legal
reform was completed, and started to be implementedunder PRSC 11, when a new law on
judicial courts was adopted. A new Central Office for the Fight against Corruption
replaced a muchsmaller and less effective Anti-Comption Unit. However, as o fthe
writing ofthis PPAR, the actual impact ofthese measures inthe areas o fprocurement,
legal reform and governance remainedpartial and limited.

4.15    Improving the investment climate: A new Financial Law was preparedunder
PRSC I,   andsubsequently approved under PRSC 11. The autonomy o fBMincreased.
According to the IMF, prudential ratios started to improve, andthe proportion o f non-
performing loans fell to below 5 percent o fthe total. Still, the impact o fthese helpfkl
measures on actually improving the business climate was unclear; for example, the Doing
Business Report for 2006 had not yet shown any improvement. A new labor law was
prepared under PRSC Iand subsequently approved under PRSC 11. Inprinciple, this law
was expected to improve labor market flexibility, but this has remained an elusive target.
Finally, measures to restructure the telecommunications andelectricity sectors were
started.

4.16    Expanding service delivery: A direct support program for schools started to be
implemented. This seems to have been the only measure completed inthis important
area.

4.17    Despite the limited attention given to the third component o f this operation, and
the fact that some key actions hadto await PRSC I1to come to fruition; the overall
progress achieved was commendable and laidthe foundations for the more complete
progress inthe following year under PRSC 11. As such, this review agrees with the ICR
andthe IEGreview that the operation's outcome was satisfactory.

                                            19


Riskto DevelopmentOutcome, BankPerformance, and Borrower
Performance

4.18    Since the PRSC series ended up consisting of only two operations which were
implemented over a relatively short period of less thantwo years (PRSC Iwas approved
inJuly 2004, andPRSC I1was closed inJune 2006), itismore reasonable andproductive
to discuss the riskto their development outcome, andBank and Borrower performance
for the series as a whole. This is done inthe next chapter, which primarily discusses the
implementationexperience under PRSC 11.


                                            21


5. SecondPoverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 11)

Background and Context at Appraisal

5.1     Economic data available inmid-2005 showed that the good overall
macroeconomic performance that had started after the end o fthe civil war, continued.
Real GDP growth registered a solid 7.8 percent in2003, and was projected at the time to
remain over 7 percent in2004. The trade deficit was reduced by almost a quarter in
2004, as exports from mega-projects increased sharply. Non-performing loans o f the
bankingsystem fell from 27 to 6 percent of gross loans, thereby reducingthe riskto
macroeconomic stability from the bankingsector. The exchange rate, which had
appreciated by about 25 percent in2004, depreciated to a more competitive level. Onthe
other hand, public revenue performance fell by a percentage point of GDP, below
expectations in2004 (12.3 percent o f GDP, compared to the targeted 13.4 percent). The
investment to GDP ratio was also lower thanexpected, mainly due to a slowdown in
investing inmega-projects relative to what had been expected. Finally, while the second
review inJune 2005 by the IMF o f its ongoing PRGF operation concluded that overall
performance over the October 2004 to March2005 hadbeen mixed, with some slippages
intax collection; itdidconfirm that prospects for 2005 remainedfavorable for growth,
inflation, andthe external account. However, despite the generally good overall
economic performance, Mozambique remained among the poorest countries inthe world,
withapercapitaGNPof$270 in2004; andthe social development indicators remained
equally low.

5.2     General elections were held inDecember 2004. The new President, Armando
Guebuza, from the same FRELIMO party as the previous President;was elected with 64
percent o fthe vote. InMarch2005, the new government submitted its new Five-Year
Programto Parliament, outlining an ambitious reform program to reduce poverty. This
programwas subsequentlydeveloped into the more operational PARPA I1(equivalent to
PRSP II),  which was approved by the Cabinet in2006. Inturn, the PARPA I1was
translated into the more operational PAF matrix, that served as the common framework
for policy dialogue among the government and the group o f donors (the G18 by 2004),
andfor additional financial support from these donors.

Project Objectives and Design

5.3     Recallthat the primary objective o fthe PRSC series was to support the
government's own objective o f reducing poverty and makingprogress toward ultimately
achieving the MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs), by promotinghigh, sustainable
growth and improving service delivery. To this end, and inline with the main pillars o f
boththe government's and Bank's strategies, the main objectives o fthe first PRSC series
(common to both Iand 11) were to support: (i) buildingpublic sector capacity and
accountability through strengthening public financial management, decreasing aid
dependency, improving M& E, and accelerating public sector reform; (ii) improving the
investment climate through strengthening the financial sector, easing constraints inthe

                                               22


regulatory environment, and expanding infrastructure services; and (iii) enhancing
sewice delivery inhealth, education, water supply andsanitation.

5.4     More specifically, the measures included inthe series inthe above main areas
were as follows:

(i)     buildingpublic sector capacity and accountability through maintaining a sound
        macroeconomic policy framework; maintaining the share o fpoverty reducing
        expenditures at close to 65 percent o ftotal public expenditures; improving the
        management o fpublic expenditures; increasing revenues to enable fiscal
        prudence; introducing clear andtransparent procurement practices; buildingthe
        capacities o f local authorities for planning, budgeting, financial management, and
        service delivery; strengtheningthe regulatory framework for business; and
        develop the capacity o f the government to deal with corruption more
        aggressively;

(io     improving the investment climatethrough more effective supervision o fbanking
        andnon-banking financial institutions; moving towards more efficient and
        profitable banks; a complete divestiture ofthe government o f its interests inthe
        bankingsystem; reducing the level o f effective protection to local industries; and
        allowing for a more efficient and flexible labor law, which would allow
        businessesto become more competitive;

(iii)   expandingservice delivery through reducing the mortality rate for mothers and
        infants;increasingaccessto basic health services; increasingaccess andretention,
        andreducing gender inequalities inprimary education; andincreasing accessto
        potable water and sanitation.

5.5     Furtherdetails regardingspecific measuresandbenchmarks were described in
more detail inthe ProgramDocument for this operation (pages 42-47), and listed inthe
PAFthat corresponded to this operation, whichwas annexed to the Program Document.

ImplementationExperience

5.6     Overall, the implementation o fthis operationproceeded well. Many o fthe
measuresthat were started under PRSC I,were completed under this project; inaddition
to the set o fmeasures foreseen underthis operation itself. This completed the generation
o freforms envisioned for this series, and laidthe groundwork for the nextphase o f
reforms that were plannedto be supported by the next series o f PRSC operations (I11
through V). A Joint Review o f economic policy performance by the government and its
development partners withinthe PAF framework, which was carried out inMay 2005;
andfound this performancesatisfactory. The credit's first tranche o f$60 million
equivalent was disbursed inOctober 2005, soon after effectiveness; and following the
implementation o f a set o fprior conditions. The second tranche o f an equal amount was
disbursedinMarch2006, following satisfaction ofthe conditions for the release o fthis
tranche. These prior actions and second tranche conditions are presented inAnnex I,
along with the prior actions for PRSC I.

                                             23


5.7     Whereas the program matrix for PRSC Idiffered somewhat from the respective
PAF, PRSC I1adopted the up-dated PAFas its own programmatrix, thereby achieving
total coincidence with the policy programs o fthe government andthe group o f
development partners. Due to the elections that took place inDecember 2004, the
adoption o fnew procurement and labor laws, bothprior conditions, was delayed; but was
subsequently implemented along with other measures related to the release o fthe second
tranche. Inaddition, however, two other measures were introduced to this operation: one
related to the inclusion o f some off-budget items into the budget, andthe other consisted
o f submitting bills to Parliamentrevising the organic law o fjudicial courts andthe notary
codes. PRSC I1included no specific conditions inthe area o f service delivery; it simply
requiredthat at least 65 percent o f public expenditures should be inthe agreed social
development priority sectors.

5.8     According to the ICR, the implementationo f this operationwas affected by
several factors; four positively, andtwo negatively. Onthe positive side: (i) design
                                                                               the
appropriately focused on cross-sectoral actions to improve public financial management
broadly, before embarking on specific reforms within sectors. These reforms were
owned by the government since they were inits own PAF, andwere based on extensive
analytical work; (ii) coordination among the development partners and with the
government was strong. Itwas formalized and made explicit ina Memorandum o f
Understanding,signed inApril 2004 by a group o f 15donors (G15), which subsequently
increased to G19; (iii) modifyingPRSC I1into two tranches inexchange for dropping the
thirdoperationo fthe series allowed for better coordinationwiththe budgetcycles ofthe
government and some o fthe other partners; and (iv) the PRSC series andthe
development partners usedthe same planningand reporting documents that the
government provided Parliament. This improved overall government accountability, and
the quality o fthe documentation. Onthe negative side: (i) December 2004 elections
                                                             the
delayed the passage of the procurement and labor laws, as stated above; and (ii)  the
implementation period for this PRSC series was shortened from three years with three
operations, to less thantwo years with only two operations to harmonize among budget
cycles o f donors andthe government. This meant that only two, insteado f three, Joint
Reviews could take place. It is not clear for this report why such a development
constituted a negative factor.

5.9     An elaborate process o fM&Eo fthe designandimplementationo fthe PRSC
series had been set inplace by the government and its development partners prior to
PRSC I,inthe context o fthe Memorandum o fUnderstanding signed inApril 2004. The
process was based on the PAF, a framework designed to help monitor and evaluate the
implementation o f actions agreed among the government and its partners, which involved
donor resources channeled through the budget insupport o fpriority sectors within the
PARPA. The PAF, inturn, was extracted from a more comprehensive Strategic Matrix
which served as the overall monitoring framework o f PARPA I1by the government and
the G19. Reviews o fthe PAFby all the parties concerned took place periodically, and
were usedto modify and update the PAF, inaccordance with progress achieved. Since
the approval o f PRSC I,  andthroughthe completion o fPRSC 11; twojoint reviews and
two mid-year reviews took place. Thejoint reviews tended to be backward-looking, and
evaluated progress achieved, while the mid-yearreviews tendedto be fonvard-looking
and agreed onperformance indicatorsfor the following year. Onbalance, it seems to

                                              24


have reduced the burden onthe government incomparisonto a process that might have
involved bilateral agreements betweenthe government and each donor separately. It
certainly led to a more coordinated, and efficient use o f donor resources, since it imposed
prior consistency between the strategic objectives o f all concerned. However, although
the process ledto a number o fcorrective actions insome sectors, as cited inthe ICR; the
overall M& Eperformance remained weak, with key policy areas like the delivery o f
social services not receiving sufficient attention, particularly under PRSC I,when
elections had distrdcted the government.

Outcome

5.10    The ICRpresented a matrix (Table 3,pages 19-21) that compared the measures
supported by PRSC Iand PRSC I1to expected outcomes, and to actual results. The
details underlyingthis matrix were elaborated inthe ICR, andprovide the basis for the
following paragraphs.

5.11 Commendable overall progress was made inimplementing the first component o f
the operation, dealing withpublic sector capacity and uccountubiZity, although actual
achievements inthe governance area remain elusive despite the implementation o f a
number o fmeasures.

5.12    Macroeconomic Framework. Robust growth continued. Itaveraged 7.7 percent
annually during2003-05. Inflation continued to decline, from a peak o f 16.8 percent in
2002, to 6.4 percent in2005. The fiscal deficit, before grants, also continued to decline
steadily, from 17.3 percent in2002 to 8.9 percent in2005. The deficit on the current
balance o fpayments account dropped in2003 and2004, but increased to 17percent o f
GDPin2005, due mainly to higher oil andcereal import prices. Still, it remainedat the
lowest level since 2000, except for 2004. Interestrates declined, and financial sector
performance was positive. The fourth PRGF review o f June 2006 concluded that
economic performance in2005 hadbeen strong.

5.13    Public Financial Management. The e-SISTAFE integrated financial management
system was rolled out to three central economic ministries: Finance, Planningand
Commerce; which started to improve their budget execution, accordingto the latest
assessment o fthe public expenditure and financial accountability by the Bank. Donor-
supported programs also started to be included gradually into the e-SISTAFE, and ajoint
task force betweenthe government andthe donors was set up in2005 to recommend
better ways o f including all external assistance inthe budget. This started to lead to
better management o f external financial aid.

5.14    Governance. Progress was made across a number o f areas under this heading:
administrative and budgetary decentralization; procurement; and, to a more limited
extent, the legal and regulatory framework for business. A DecentralizationLaw was
approved, andtogether with the previously approved IntegratedFinancialand
Management Information system (IFMIS), has provided a framework for decentralized
planningandfunding, since it established the district as a budgetary unitfor the first time.
This allowed the central government to allocate direct transfers to districts, although
some confusion was still apparent regarding specific guidelines for the use of such funds.

                                              25


A newProcurement Code was approved, inaccordance withinternational standards.
Procurement audits were carried out inseveral ministries. Standard bidding documents
were approved and publishedandtraining o f staff intheir use started. These measures
started to increase the transparency o fprocurement practices. Progress indealing with
corruptionremained elusive. Although the budget o fthe Central Office for the Fight
against Corruption increased ten-fold in2006, the number o f cases prosecuted didnot
increase. According to the 2006 corru tion perception index publishedby Transparency
International, Mozambique ranked 99` out o f 163 countries, about the same rankingas in
                                        R
2005 and 2004, and slightly better thanin2003. Comparedto some o f its African
neighbors, Mozambique ranked roughly inthe bottom half o fthe group.

5.15    A number ofmeasures were carriedout that started to improve the overall
business climate, under the second component o fthis operation.

5.16    Legal and Regulatory Environment. The Notary Code was revised, andthe
Commercial Code and the Code for the Registry o f Legal Entitieswere approved. As a
result, the number o f days to register a business dropped from 153 to 113, according to
2005 dataused inthe 2007 Doing Business Report. Subsequently, the Cabinet approved
the electronic publicationo fa firm's articles o fincorporation, instead o fgoing through
the time-consumingprocess o fgoing throughthe OfficialGazette. This simple measure
drastically further reduced the start-uptime for new businesses to 30 days only.
Computerizedregistration o f firms was being applied inthree o fthe country's ten
provinces, with the intentionto achieve full coverage. This started to improve the
accuracy and speed o fthe registration process. Together with the speeding up o f land
andindustrialregistration, andthe issuance o fvisas at the borders for migrantworkers;
these measures started to modestly improve the regulatory framework for doing business
inthe country. The maximumimport duties hadbeenreducedpreviously from 30to 25
percent. InJanuary 2006, the maximumduty for neighboring Southern Africa
Development Cooperation (SADC) countries was reduced to 20 percent.

5.17    Financial Sector. The approval of the newFinancial Institutions Law improved
the capacity o fthe Bank o f Mozambique to supervise all the financial institutions. In
accordance with this law, BMdrafted prudentialregulations incompliance with Base1I
Principles, with an accompanying inspectionmanual. These were expected to be
approved soon, as was the start o fhands-on training for inspectors. This was, infact,
done.

5.18    The outcome o fthe third component o fthe operation, dealing withservice
delivery inpriority sectors,improved under the second PRSC operation, comparedto the
first. The overarching objective o f directing at least 65 percent of budget expenditures to
the priority social sectors was broadly met, or exceeded: 63 percent in2004,66.3 percent
in2005. The 2006 Joint Review ofthe PAFbythe government with its development
partnersshowed that most o fthe targets for 2005 ineducation, health, HIV-AIDS, and
infrastructure were met. Out o f 15 indicators, 10were either met or surpassed, 2 were
partially met, 2 were not met, and one could not be measured. Inaddition, out o f 8
indicators inthe agriculture and rural development sector, 2 were met and 6 were
partially met. This sector was included inthe Results Framework also usedto monitor
progress under PRSC 11. Details on these achievements were provided inthe ICR (pages

                                                 26


17-1 8). For example, the target for the net enrollment rate for girls was surpassed; that
for the number o f institutional deliveries was met; the DPT3 vaccination target was not
reached; the road rehabilitationtarget was attained, butthe routine maintenance target
was not; and significantly, although the funds directed at HIV-AIDS andthe community
initiatives surpassedtheir targets, the number o f HIV positive pregnant women and
neonates receiving preventativetreatment fell short o fthe target, andHIV-AIDS
prevalence inthe population at large continued to rise.

5.19       On balance, the overall outcome o fthe measures supported by this operation was
commendable; and as such, this review agrees with the ICR andthe IEGreviewthat it
merits a rankingo fsatisfactory.

Riskto Development Outcome

5.20       This section applies to bothPRSC IandPRSC 11.While the ICR cited four risks,
this reviewexamines measurestakenbythe government to mitigate these risks.

5.21       First, there is somepotentialfor macroeconomic instability, as a result o f
exogenous factors, the fragile performance so far o fthe financial sector, or an
unsustainable accumulation o fnew external debt. While serious exogenous shocks
cannot be ruled out, particularly since the recent increase inthe global price o f foodstuffs,
as well as the global financial crisis o f 2008/09; the country hadbeenable to weather
some o fthese shocks inprevious years, and i s likely to remain capable to do so, at least
for moderate shocks. As for the financial sector, prudential and other measures
implemented under these two operations have already reduced the share o f poorly
performing loans inbankportfolios, andmoderated the risk o f accumulating highshares
inthe future. Regardingexternal debt, the IMFandthe Bankcontinueto assist the
government inconducting annual debt sustainability analyses, designed to forewarn of
any adverse developments andtake remedial actionpromptly, as well as provide debt
relief. Infact, between2004 and 2007, Mozambique HIPC andMultilateral Debt Relief
Initiative(MDRI) debt relief totaled over $2.4 billion, and all outstanding debt to the
IMF,the WB andthe African Development Bank (AfDB)was cancelled underthe MDRI
initiative (Table 1).

Table 1: Mozambique HlPC and MDRl Debt Relief (million USD)
                                   CY2004       CY2005      CY2006     CY2007    2004-2007
HIPC,total                            135.2          135.8     130.9      130.0         532.0
 Of which IDA                           8.9            9.7       9.8       10.6          39.0
 Of which AfDB                          2.6            2.5       2.6        2.9          10.6
 IMF                                                  15.0      34.0                     49.0
  Bilateral and other                 123.7          108.7      84.5      116.5         433.4

MDRl                                                          1,916.8                 1,916.8
 Of which IDA                                                1,319.0                  1,319.0
 Of which AfDB                                                 477.8                    477.8
 IMF                                                           120.0                    120.0

Total HlPC and MDRl relief            135.2          135.8   2,047.7      130.0       2,448.8
Source: 2007 CPSfor Mozambique

                                              27


5.22    Second, disbursements by developmentpartners may become unpredictable,
particularly inview o fthe global financial crisis. This risk has been mitigatedto a great
extent, by the strong degree o f donor coordination and harmonization, through the
Memorandum o f Understandingandthe regular Joint Reviews andMid-Year Reviews.
The increased ownership role being played by the government since April 2005 has been
welcomed by the donors andhas consolidated mutualtrust inthe process.

5.23    Third, weak capacity to implement reforms may endupdelayingthe reform
process, or compromising its development impact. To mitigate this risk, the government
andthe donors agreedto develop anintegrated strategy for capacity development in
public financial management, andto strengthen the management o f reforms.

5.24    Fourth, there i s a distinctpotentialfor deterioration in governance that could
compromise economic reforms, growth and poverty reducing efforts. For example,
reforms inthe legal andjudicial sector have not kept up withtheir intendedpace. Still,
the G19 continues to actively support the government inits efforts to improve
governance, andto press it to keep up the pace.

5.25    Inadditionto the arguments providedinthe above four paragraphs which outline
how the risks noted inthe ICRwere being mitigated, the more general arguments
provided inpara. 3.18 regardingthe risk to development outcome for EMPSO also apply
to PRSC Iand PRSC 11.Namely,that: (i)        the government has demonstrated its
commitment to following through with reforms inits policy dialogue with, andto the
satisfaction of, its development partners; (ii) the political climate has been stable and is
likely to remainso for the foreseeable future; and (iii)number o fkeypieces o f
                                                          a
legislationhave beenpassed, andinstitutions, processes and frameworks set up which are
unlikely to be reversed. For all o fthese reasons, this assessment agrees with boththe
ICR and the IEGreview that the risk to development outcome o f these two operations
merits a rating o f moderate.

BankPerformance

5.26    This section applies to bothPRSC IandPRSC 11. This reviewagrees withthe
ICR and the IEGreviewthat the Bank's overall performance indesigning and
supervising the two operations was satisfactory. The ICR makes a very tight case for
such a rating, andthis was confirmed duringthis review.

5.27    Duringthe designandpreparationstages, the Bankensured that the operations
were completely inline withthe government's development strategy, as reflected inits
PARPA; and with the Bank's CAS, which was explicitly aligned with the PARPA.
Discussions with the government andthe partners duringthe periodic Joint and Mid-Year
Reviews also provided useful inputs. Inaddition, the design benefited from a range o f
analytical work conducted mainly by the Bankandthe IMF, andto a lesser extent, by
others. More than a dozen relevantreports were listed inthe ICR inthis regard (pages
23-24). Moreover, the design o fthe second operation benefited from some experience
gained duringthe implementation o f the first, such as the introduction o f the e-SISTAFE
inthe Ministries ofFinance andofPlanning.PRSC I1also adheredmore closely to the
PAFthanits predecessor, and it was better aligned withthe budgetcycles o fthe other

                                              28


partners andthe government. Although the M&E arrangements that were put inplace in
the context o fthe Joint Reviews andthe Mid-Year Reviews o fthe PAFwere adequate to
track the implementation o f nearly fifty measures, and main outputs; they fell short o f
allowing the measurement o f clear results.

5.28    The Bank's supervision o fthe two operations was aligned with the supervision o f
thejoint Direct Budget Support program o fthe group o f donors. Within the framework
o fthe joint Reviews, the mid-year reviews, and some other interveningreviews-by the
G19; broad-based, multi-sectoral teams from the Bankmaintained a broad andconstant
supervision o f implementationprogress. Inaddition, technical assistance was provided
bythe Bank inthree concurrent projects: Public Sector ReformProject, Enterprise
Development Project, and Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project.

Borrower Performance

5.29    This section also applies to bothPRSC IandPRSC 11. This reviewagrees with
the ICR andthe IEGreview that the Borrower's overall performance duringthe design
and implementation o fthe two operations was satisfactory. The government played a
central role inchoosing the priority areas o f its development strategies (PARPA Iand
PARPA II), participated actively inthe design o fthe components o f this series, in
             and
support o fthis strategy. It also took the lead, inthe context o fthe PAF design and
monitoring process, inimplementing the specific measures, and the underlying M&E
activities. O fparticular importance, was the government's regular reporting to
Parliamentonprogress, which forced itto be accountable, and inreturn, enabled to have
Parliament's endorsement o f its programs. Whereas some delays were encountered under
the first operation because o fthe December 2004 elections, the new government
promptly showed its commitment to follow through with the reforms, and even made up
for these delays duringthe implementationo fthe second operation.

                                                      29


6. Overall Evaluationand Lessons

Overall Evaluation

6.1         The three operations reviewed inthis report fell within a period o f transition inthe
modality of the Bank's support to Mozambique's development agenda at the core
structural level; from a DPL mode represented by the EMPSO, to a GBS mode
represented by PRSC Iand PRSC 11, which were followed by three additional PRSCsthat
were completed by the end o f 2008, at the time this report was being drafted. We have
seen inthe previous chapter that, overall, EMPSO achieved encouraging but only partial
progress across a number o f important policy and institutional development areas.
Nevertheless, this progress was sufficient to help set the stage for introducing the GBS
mode of support, at a time when the country was keento have it, andthe community of
development partners hadreached the conclusion to embrace it. As the first two such
budgetsupport operations inMozambique, andtakentogether, PRSC Iand PRSC I1
achieved broadly satisfactory results; and helped to maintainthe momentum o f
commendable overall macroeconomic performance, and ongoing though unevenprogress
across a wide front o f other policy areas.

6.2         Macroeconomic Performance. This PPAR was being.conducted simultaneously
witha CAEthat also covered experience underthe subsequent PRSCs(notably, PRSCI11
andPRSCIV). As such, andbenefiting from the analysis conductedinthe context ofthe
CAE, it i s useful here to reproduce a table from that CAE summarizing overall
macroeconomic performance over the 2001-07 period (Table 2), with some o f its
accompanying commentary.

   Table 2: Mozambique: Main MacroeconomicIndicators
                                             2001     2002     2003     2004     2005     2006     2007

   GDP Growth(%)                               13.1      8.2      7.9      7.5      6.2      8.5      7.0
   GNI per capita (US$)                         210      210      230      270      310      340
   PnniilntinnCmluth IC\                        9 4      7 7      7 1      7 1      IQ i q
   GDP per capita growlh (%)                   10.7      6.0      5.8      5.4      4.3      6.6

   AgricultureVA (%)                            9.4     10.8      9.1      8.3      1.7      9.0
   IndustryVA (%)                              20.9      9.8     10.1      5.1      7.7      9.7
   Services VA (%)                             13.6      5.7      4.6      8.8      8.9      7.8

   Inflation(CPI,%)                             9.0     16.8     13.4     12.7      7.2     13.2      8.2

   Gross Investment(% of GDP)                  25.9     29.8     27.4     22.6     18.7     19.0     19.2
   (Public)                                   (15.4)   (12.5)   (12.5)    (9.4)    (8.6)   (12.1)   (12.1)
   (Private)                                  (10.5)   (17.3)   (14.9)   (13.2)   (10.1)    (6.9)    (7.1)

   Exports (% of GDP)                          27.2     29.0     28.2     31.O     31.7     37.4
   Imports(%of GDP)                            45.0     47.8     440      39.3     41.5     42.0
   Currentaccountbalance(% of GDP)            -17.8    -21.2    -17.0    -10.3    -11.1

   ExternalDebt(% of GNI)                     144.1    128.8    103.6     90.6     82.3
   DebtService(% of GNI)

   Budget Deficit(incl. Grants,%GDP)           -6.1     -7.0     -4.5     -4.4     -2.3     -1.7     -3.9
   Budget Deficit(excl.grants, % GDP)         -19.9    -17.3    -14.0    -11.7     -8.9    -12.5    -13.5
   Current Revenues (excl. Grants, % GDP)      12.4     12.4     12.9     12.6     13.6     14.0     16.4
   Total Expendilures(% of GDP)                32.1     30.0     26.5     24.5     22.0     25.1     29.7
   CapitalExpenditures(%of GDP)                18.6     16.1     12.2     10.2      8.6     11.9     11.9
   Source: World Bank Internal Database.

                                              30


6.3     Inbrief, Mozambique's overall growthperformanceover 2001-07 was very good,
giventhe country's capacity constraints andkeeping inmindthe dire conditions that had
prevailed at independence. Maintaining an annual growth rate that averaged between 7-8
percent was a commendable achievement. Inaddition, the performance o f exports and
the external account as a whole was also good, due mainly to exports by the so-called
mega-projects.

6.4     Despite the positive performance o f overall growth andthe external account,
however, a number o f features o fthe overall macroeconomic performance that
accompanied them continued to be sources o f concern. First, although inflation was
reduced significantly fromthe early days o fpost-independence, it fluctuated duringthis
period, and averaged a two-digit 11.5 percent. Therefore, the threat o fmacroeconomic
instability remains, particularly inview o f recent increases inthe global prices o f food,
andthe overall uncertainty surrounding global developments inpetroleum andprimary
commodities markets. Second, the disappointing trends inbothpublic, andparticularly
private, investment do not bode well for future growth prospects. This i s relatedto a
fundamental question raised ina 2005 country economic review regarding how much o f
growth can be expected to come from a "permanent" component that i s sustainable, as
distinct from that due to one-time events, such as the "bounce-back" effect inagriculture
when farmers went back to their abandoned landafter the endo f the civil war. Third, the
highdependence onaid hasbeena concern for the government andthe donor community
for the last decade, or so. There have been about forty donors active inMozambique, and
about halfo f all public expenditures have been financed from external sources, in
addition to the significant debt reliefthat has beenprovided by some o fthe major donors.
Although it is unlikely that Mozambique will be abandoned by its development partners
overnight, the continuation o fthis highlevel o f dependence, particularly given recent
global financial developments, remains a cause o f uncertainty and concern. Finally, there
is the very important questiono fthe nature and characteristics o f growth inMozambique,
andhow mucho fithasbeen, or is likely to become, employment generating andpoverty
reducing?

6.5     The most recent country economic review, like its predecessor, addressed this
central matter. This country economic review i s a very good piece o f analytical work that
looked to the future andtried to see how Mozambique could reshape its growth pattern,
bypromoting an open, export-oriented economy throughtrade and regionalintegration,
so it could create more employment. The first chapter o fthis review startedwith
analyzing past performance, focusing on what might have beenthe drivers o f growth
duringthe past couple ofdecades. Among its main conclusions, it affirmed that ever
since 1999,growth had beendriven mainly by capital accumulation which i s consistent
withthe timingofmega-projects andthat the country benefittedfrom exploiting some o f
its natural resources although it has not yet resolved the challenge o f creating morejobs
andmakinggrowth inclusive. It also concludedthat there hadbeen increases infactor
productivity and improvements inthe quality o f labor.

6.6     The CAEPPAR mission confirmed that there was general agreement among the
policy makers andresident representatives o fthe community o f development partners
withthese conclusions. Overall growth has been impressiveduringthe reviewperiod,
andthe underlyingmacroeconomic performancevery satisfactory, butthe benefits o f

                                              31


growth have not reachedthe majority ofthe population, particularly those inrural areas,
to the extent desirable. Thus, while the recent country economic review correctly
concluded that the continued interest inmega-projectsby foreign investors innew areas
like coal, andpipelines for natural gas andpossibly petroleum i s likely to be very
beneficial for the economy, particularly ifbackward linkages to the domestic economy
are strengthenedas intended; the major challenge remains to create a significant volume
of new employment inthe "smaller" economy; both inurbanlocations, but particularly in
the ruralhinterland.

6.7     Modality of Bank and Donor Assistance. Again, the following paragraphs benefit
from the analysis done inthe context of the CAE. As a new approachthat hadbeen
adoptedby the donor community, the GBSPRSC modality, which had its conceptual
origin inthe ParisDeclaration, arguedfor tightly coordinated direct budget support by
development partnersto countries with aproven economic development record. The
country itselfwas expectedto assume the leadership indriving its own (and owned)
development program, andto be accountablefor its implementation. The partners, in
turn, wouldbeaccountable for providingpredictable andappropriate levels ofdirect
budget support. Inthe case of some partners, like IDA, disbursement o f funds would be
linkedto prior actions, as opposedto conditions on any future disbursement, as inDPLs,
for example. Thus, the emphasiswould essentially be on "monitoring" pastlongoing
performance, insteadof "motivating" anticipated performance through conditionality.

6.8     As withother countries, the question has arisen inthe case ofMozambique as to
whether this modality of assistance has worked well, incomparison to alternatives. In
fact, as of the drafting o f this report, IEGwas conducting a broad, multi-country analysis
of the subject, includinga case study of the experience inMozambique. The
comprehensivedraft report ofthis case study, datedNovember 2008, concludes that the
PRSC has beeninstrumental incoordinating the Bank's budget support with that of other
GBS financiers. The GBS is totally integrated withthe PARPA. Although the current
GBS set-uppreventsflexibility anddoes not allow to focus onthe policy dialogue ofcore
policy reforms and their implementation ifthey have not been already been supporting
the PAF matrix. According to this case study, this inflexibility has been related to the
mismatch intiming betweenthe PAF processandthe Bank's own, internal review
processes. This PPAR agrees that the PRSCshave done well as an instrument of
predictable budget support, and o f coordination amongthe partners andthe government.
The government officials interviewedby the PPAR mission certainly felt that this
modality of support recognized the ownership and leadrole played by the government, a
welcome departurefrom the past. They also felt that the partners' efforts, including those
ofthe Bank, to align their support with the PAF havebeenbroadly successful, and
appreciated.

6.9     As for the inflexibility of the PRSC modality regarding policy dialogue and
implementation, opinions of the participants inthe process seem to have been divided.
Some ofthe participants interviewedby the PPAR mission have felt that the instrument
has beenrather inflexible with regard to policy content. Others, while agreeing to the
timing problems associatedwith monitoringpastperformance instead of motivating
future actions, havearguedthat the processhas still allowed for flexibility, at least in
policy dialogue, through the reviews of ongoing PAFs, and the possible introduction of

                                              32


policy measures either innewPAFs, or through parallel sector, or investment operations.
Buteventhose proponents o fthe GBSPRSC approach have agreed that efforts should
still be considered to make the process more flexible and responsive, particularly as new,
unforeseen developments develop. This PPAR feels that the PRSC instrument has
worked well; andthat, on balance, its advantages have outweighed its disadvantages,
which is a view shared by the IEGcase study.

Lessons

6.10     The main lessons that emerge from the analysis inthis PPAR, as supplemented by
the analysis conducted inthe context o fthe CAE which was being carried out
simultaneously, are as follows:

6.11 The very good macroeconomic performance sustained by Mozambique over the
last two decades suggeststhat as long as the country is following prudentandeffective
macroeconomic stabilization and management policies inthe context o f ongoing IMF
programs, it i s sufficient for the Bank's assistanceprogram, as has been done inthe
context o fthe EMPSO andthe PRSC series, to base its evaluation o f macroeconomic
developments on the IMF's assessment, and to provide ancillary support (such as intrade
policy, public expenditure allocation, and some specific revenue enhancing measures),
without devoting major extra efforts itself across the whole spectrum withinthis policy
area. The important thing is for the Bankto reach its own evaluation that macroeconomic
performance i s satisfactory, without necessarily having to do all the assessment itself.

6.12     The experience o f Mozambique also suggeststhat the PRSC/GBS modality seems
to have yielded broadly satisfactory results, which have been at least as good as
alternative modalities, butwith the added advantage o fhavingthe country itself leading
its development agenda andplaying a central role incoordinating the assistance from its
development partners. The presumption o f a proven track record, while not a guarantee
for continued success, is an important pre-condition. Close monitoring and evaluationby
the country andits partners duringimplementationi s also very important. Meanwhile,
this assessment agrees with views expressed by a number o fparticipants inthis modality
that it would be useful to look for ways to introduce more flexibility inthe underlying
decisionprocesses, to allow for the incorporationo fpolicy and implementation
adjustments inresponse to changing conditions, as needed.

6.13     The experience o fthe financial sector andthat o fthe telecommunications and air
transport sectors, suggests that accompanying budget support, or DPL operations, with
related TA may increase the chances for success. However, for more complicated sectors
likePSD, or agricultural andrural development, this may not be sufficient, andthere may
be a need for additional interventions.

6.14     Stability inthe composition o f Bank andcounterpart project teams, and close
involvement o f staff o fthe Bank's Office inMaputo at all stages o fproject preparation
and implementation are important for increasing the chances o f success o f Bank-
supported operations.

                                                 33


6.15    Whenaproject seeks to achieve changes inlegislation, regulations, and
processes; it i s important for it to articulate well-definedand achievable results indicators
that allow for effective monitoring o f implementation, and adjusting the process as
needed. Inthis context, the Bank should pay particular attentionto helpinstrengthening
the Borrower's M&E capacity.

6.16    Severalefforts by Mozambique and its partnersto make credit more accessibleto
SMEsandmicro-borrowers through more orthodox bankingpracticeshavenotyielded
encouraging results, so far. Grantedthat this objective i s inherentlydifficult ina very
poor country with apredominant informal/rural sector, with a low level of education and
training. This suggests that less orthodox and more innovative measuresmay be needed.
Inview oftheparamount importance ofcreating employment, particularly inunderserved
rural areas, political economy considerationsmay even call for some more risky
measureswhose social dividends could counterbalanceany additional risks.

6.17    Finally, a lessoncited inthe SimplifiedICR for PRSC I, was particular to
                                                                    which
that operation, was the needto take electoral cycles into consideration and avoid aiming
at approvals of key legislation during election periods (e.g., the labor and procurement
laws were delayed becauseofthe 2004 elections). It is not clear to this assessment that,
inpracticalterms, it is correct to generalizethis"lesson". Most countries go through
various election cycles regularly, and often these elections do delay some procedures,
includingapproval of laws. On balance, however, it seems that it would be better on
many occasions tojust live withthis fact andmove ahead, trying to approve various
measures. Keeping the momentum and the pressure to follow through may bethe right
thing to do under some conditions, despite ongoing elections.

6.18    Recommendation. The three operations reviewed inthis report all sought to
assist the government's efforts to promote sustainable and more equitable growththrough
support for PFM, PSD, andFSD. Although progresshas beenmade to this end, due in
partto these three operations, butalso to subsequent PRSCs; the single most important
recommendation ofthis assessment, inline with the main CAE finding, is for the Bankto
give an evenhigher priority to assistthe country inits efforts to modify its growth pattern
andmake itmore inclusive andemployment generating. This canbe done by buildingon
the achievements so far inthe areas ofmacroeconomic performance, FSD, and PSD. In
particular:

            Stronger efforts should be directedat making credit more accessibleto SMEs
            andthe agricultural/rural sector. To this end, more attention couldbe directed
            at developing financial intermediation inthese areas, includingthrough the
            promotionof non-banking institutions and schemes like the network of traders
            that had operatedbefore independence.
            Muchstronger efforts shouldalso bemadeto simplify andstreamline business
           proceduresand regulations; and, inparticular, to deal more imaginatively with
           the problem of collateral.
            The good experiencewiththe privatization ofthe telecommunications and air
           transport sectors, as well as the good overall progressmade inthe financial
            sector; argue for the use of TA operations inparallel to budget support, or

                              34


DPL-type operations. Although not a guarantee of full success, such TA could
prove very helpful.

                                                        35


Annex I:Prior Actions and Tranche Release Conditions
(EMPSO,PRSCs Iand 11)


                                                   EMPSO

                                          FirstTrancheConditions
Maintain overall macroeconomic targets as definedinthe PRGF
Cabinet to pass a new code o f fiscal incentives for investmentrationalizing the incentives and reducing
revenue losses
Establish an action ulanfor the reuortine o f donor funds. usingdata from sectoral ministries
(By negotiations): Draft strategic integrated plan for the reform o fthejudicial sector, andthe finalplan for
the Ministry ofJustice
Concerningthe further recapitalization o f BIM, (i)   issue a circular requiringthat accounting information
sent monthly by all commercial banks are signedby competent managers previously registered at BM; (ii)
prepare abusinessplan(including a monitorable debt collection plan) showing how the low business
viability o f the bank will be improved; (iii)Government undertakesnot to vote on its shares for executive
directors; (iv) appoint a specialist advisory group to assess the reasonswhy the former B S Mmade serious
financial losses; examining the procedures incredit and other risk management practices
(By negotiations): Issue a monitorable bad debt collection action planfor BAu, includinguse of
"execucoesfiscals", with monitoringthrough publication o fthe quarterly budget execution reports
Issue a decree on external auditing o f financial institutions, requiringthat financial statements issued after
the date ofthe decreebe audited annually by qualified auditors incompliance with standards ofthe
International Federation o fAccountants
Submit to Parliament a legal amendment ending TDM's monopoly on international services
Enactment by Cabinet o fthe new air policy which opens all non-scheduled traffic to any provider,
provides ffee licensing for scheduled domestic flights, and provides multi-designation o f carriers for
internationalscheduled operations

                                         SecondTrancheConditions
Report donor-funded expenditures as statistical annexes inthe budget execution reports, starting with the
first quarter o f calendar 2002
Incorporate estimates o f all knownministerial own receipts (`receitaspr6prias '7 inthe 2003 budget
Adopt officially the finalized StrategicIntegrated Planfor the Legal and Judicial Sector 2002-2006
Complete an assessment o fthe deficiencies inthe systemo f checks and balances o fBIM, andthe causes
o fthe extensive risk management failures, and, inthe event wrongdoing is found, report it to the
Attorney-General
Enforce full compliance o f all bankswith all existing prudential rules and regulations, by specifying
corrective measuresto all non-compliant banks
Complete an independentaudit o fthe 2001accounts o f EMOSE, including an opinion on mathematical
reserves, valuation o f real estate holdings and other fixed assets, information systems and accounting
standards; andinitiate an independent actuarial analysis o fINSSbythe appointment o f consultants
Submit to the National Assembly a telecommunications law reflecting the sector policy
Appoint investment advisers for the privatization o f LAM
Approval o fthe final Strategic Integrated Plan for the legal andjudicial sector by the Borrower's legal and
judicial coordinating board (Conselhode CoordenacaodeLegalidade e Justica) and submitting it to the
Bank

Annex I                                                 36



                                                    PRSC I
                                                 Prior actions
Spending 64.9% o f its 2003 budget (excluding interest and election spending) on prior sectors referredto
inthe PARPA, inaccordancewithparagraph9 ofthe LDP
Adoption o fregulations for implementing SISTAFE, establish the Technical Unitfor Public Financial
Management Reform (UTRAFE); and substantially strengthen its data processing center, and make
SISTAFE's first phase operational with the adoption o f an electronic systemo f control over the
Government Bank accounts, all inaccordance with Paragraph 8 o fthe LDP
As of2003, increase domestic revenue mobilizationthrough implementingfuel tariffadjustments which
includes an automatic fuel tariffadjustment mechanism for January 2004,-and a withholding tax on the
income o fpublic sector employees all inaccordance with paragraph 10 o f the LDP.
Adoption o fthe following public sector reform measures (i)      reduce the land registration to a maximum
o f 90 days; (ii)
                adopt a new regulatory fiamework to simplify and expedite the process o f industrial
registration; and, (iii)
                      start to issue visitor visas at the Borrower's borders, all inaccordance with
paragraph 11o fthe LDP.
Adoption o f a law decentralizingcertain services to the district level (the Local State Organs Law) which
provides for increased autonomy o f district authorities andthe legal basis for treating a district authority
as a budget entity thereby strengthening the territorial dimension o f public sector management, in
accordance with paragraph 12 o f the LDP
Adoption o f a law on anti-corruption, inaccordance with paragraph 13 o f the LDP
Reduction o ftop import duties on consumptiongoods fiom 30 to 25 percent, inaccordance with
paragraph 20 o fthe LDP

                                                       37                                                Annex I




                                                  PRSC I1
                                       Prior actions for first tranche
MoF will implemente-SISTAFE inthe Ministryand its provincial Directorates
The Council o f Ministers will approve a new procurement decree that brings public procurement into line
with international practice
The Government will present a new Financial Institutions Law to the NationalAssembly
Makingthe hiringofforeign labormore flexiblethrough the adoption ofdecree 57/03
The Government will present anew Commercial Code to the National Assembly
The Government will formulate its 2005 budget with agreed allocations to PARPA priority areas and
execute its 2004 budget consistent with agreed allocations, inparticular it will spend 65 percent o f its
2004 budget inpriority areas
                                        Triggers for second tranche
Adoption o f a new procurement code and start o f its implementation as evidenced by: (a) the approval o f
a revised implementation action plan; (b) the carrying out o f procurement audits inat least two o f its
ministries inaccordancewith the activity plan o fthe internal audit system; (c) the preparation o f a training
program for civil servants and suppliers; (d) the preparation o fterms o freference for elaboration o f
standardbidding documents
Revision o f the 1888 Commercial Code through the adoption o f a new Code
Rolledout e-SISTAFE to the Ministryo f Education and Culture
Conclude the study on "off-budget" inthe health sector and initiated the implementation o f the study's
recommendations as evidenced by the inclusions inthe 2006 budget proposal of: (a) the revenues and
expenditures o fthe special clinics (clinica special) and special care (atendimento special) and (b) a larger
portiono fthe revenues and expenditures.
Legal reforms: submitbills to its Parliament revising: (a) the organic law ofjudicial courts including
commercial sections; and, (b) the Notary Code
Combat corruption by increasing, inreal terms, the resources allocated inits 2006 budgetary proposal for
anti-corruption work, when compared to the 2005 budget


                                           39


Annex 11: List of People InterviewedMet

In Mozambique:

Ministrv of Planning and Development

H.E.Victor Bernardo, DeputyMinister
Dr.Adriano Ubisse, Director ofInvestment and Cooperation
Ms.Ester dos SantosJose, DeputyDirectorofInvestment andCooperation

MinistryofFinance

H.E.Paul0Manique,PermanentUndersecretary

Bank o fMozambique (Central Bank)

Mr.Waldemar de Sousa, GeneralManager
Mr.Leonard0MarcosSimbine, HeadofForeignDepartment
Ms.MariaEsperancaMajimeja, Economist

Private Sector

Mr.Mario da GracaMachungo, Chairman, Millennium(BIM)Bank; Ex-PrimeMinisterand
Ex-Minister o f Finance
Mr.Yam Groeger, Director General, ProCredit Bank
Mr.ManuelRodrigues, Partner,METIERConsulting

Embassies

Mr.NielsRichter, DeputyHeadofMission, DanishEmbassy
Ms.LottaKarlsson, DeputyChiefofMissionandChiefofCooperation, FinnishEmbassy
Mr.Ben@Johansson, ChiefofCooperation, SwedishEmbassy
Ms.Marit Strand, Counselor-Economist, NorwegianEmbassy

IMF

Mr.FelixFischer, ResidentRepresentative
Ms.EmmyBosten

UNDP

Mr.JoseLuisMacamo, GovernanceProgrammeManager



Mr.TundeOnitiri, CountryManager

Annex It                                  40


World Bank

Mr.MichaelBaxter, Director
Ms.Susan Hume, CountryProgramManager
Mr.Young-Chul Kim, Senior Economist
Mr.Antonio Lucifora, Senior Economist
Mr.SamuelMaimbo, Senior FinancialSector Specialist

In Washington

World Bank

Mr.PeterNicholas, CountryCoordinator
Mr.PeterMoll, SeniorEconomist
Mr.MazenBouri, PSDSpecialist
Ms.LouiseFox, LeadEconomist
Mr.RuiBenfica, Economist
Ms.MariaBenitto-Spinetto ResearchAnalyst
Mr.BrendanHorton, Consultant, IEG



Mr.Jose Sulemane,Advisor tothe ExecutiveDirector (from Mozambique)

In Bern. Switzerland(bv teleuhonel

Mr.Gregory Binkert, SeniorEconomist(on leave from theWorldBank)

                                      41


Annex 111: Borrower Comments

Todate, nocommentshavebeenreceivedfromthe government.


                                             43


 Annex IV. BasicData Sheet

 ECONOMICMANAGEMENT AND PRIVATESECTOR
 OPERATION-(Credit 3709)

 Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                         Appraisal        Actual or      Actual as % of
                                          estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
 Total projectcosts                              120             134.17              112
 Loan amount                                     120             134.17              112
 Cofinancing
 Cancellation
 Institutionalperformance


 ProiectDates
                                                Original                  Actual
 Initiating memorandum                 09/15/2000                 12/05/2000
 Negotiations                                                     09/11/2002
 Boardapproval                                                    08/29/2002
 Signing                               09/10/2002                 09/11/2002
 Effectiveness                                                    10/09/2002
 Closing date                                                     07/01/2004



IMissionData

         stage ofproject Cycle    1 ActuaLZatest Estimate
                                           No. Staff Weeks                   US$ (`000)

                                                               41.2                      204,363
 Identificatioflreparation                                     56.4                      269,55 1
 AppraisaLfNegotiation                                         60.6                      248,717
 Supervision                                                   21.4                       90,086
 ICR                                                          179.6                      812,717
 Total

  ANNEXIV                                     44


  Staff Inputs(staffwee s>
  Stage of Project Cycle       No. of Persons and Specialty (e.g. 2            PerformanceRating
                                    Economists, 1FMS,etc.)
        MonthNear           Count   Specialty                             Implementation Development
                                                                            Progress      Objective

[dentification/Preparation          Country Economist (1);
  July 23-August 13,2000            Country Director (1); Resident
                                    Representative (1); Economists (2);

                                    Country Economist (2); Country
    October 3-20,2000               Director (1); ResidentRepresentative
                                    (1); Sector Manager (1); Financial
                                    Sector Specialist (1); Operations
                                    Officer (1); Operations Officer (1);

                                    Country Economist (2); Economist
 February22-March 22,2001           (1); Financial Sector Specialist (1);
                                    Public Sector Specialist (1); Private
                                    Sector Development Specialist (1);
                                    Financial Officer (1);
AppraisallNegotiation        12     Country Economist (2); Economist
    December 18,200 1               (1); Operations Officer (1);
                                    Consultant (1); Financial Sector
                                    Specialist (1); Private Sector
                                    Development Specialist (1);
                                    Financial Officer (1); Financial
                                    Analyst (1); FinancialManagement
                                    Specialist (1); FinancialEconomist
                                    (1); Country Director (1);

Supervision                         Country Economist (1); Consultant
      October 28,2002               (1); Economist (1); Sector Manager
                                    (1); Financial Officer (1); Private
                                    Sector Development Specialist (1);
                                    AdvisorBanking, Capital Markets &
                                    Fin.Eng. (1)

                                    Country Economist (2);
   December 9-13,2002               AdvisorBanking, Capital Markets &
                                    Fin.Eng(1)

                                    Country Economist (2); Economist
   December 16-24,2002              (1);


ICR

                                      45                                   ANNEX1V



FIRSTPOVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORTCREDIT (Credit 3950)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                   Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
                                   estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                        60                 60 100
Loan amount                               60                 60 100
Cofinancing
Cancellation
Institutionalperformance

ProjectDates
                                         Original                  Actual
Initiating memorandum           02/16/2004                 0211812004
Negotiations                    04/15/2004                 04/22/2004
Board approval
Signing
Effectiveness                   09116/2004                 09/16/2004
Closing date                    06/30/2005                 06/30/2005


Staff Inputs(staff weeks) No Data Available
                         FYxx FYxx    FYxx    FYxx    FYxx    FYxx       Total
Preappraisal
Appraisal
Negotiations
Supervision
Other
Total

MissionData No Data Available

ANNEXIV                                46



SECOND POVERTY REDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDIT (Credit 4111)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                   Appraisal         Actual or        Actual as % of
                                    estimate     current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                    120             120                  100
Loan amount                            120             120                  100
Cofinancing
Cancellation
Institutionalperformance

Project Dates
                                           Original                    Actual
Initiating memorandum                    05/24/2005                  0611412005
Negotiations                             07/27/2005                  07/11/2005
Board approval
Signing
Effectiveness                             10/13/2005                 10/13/2005
Closingdate                              06/30/2005                  06/30/2005



                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank BudgetOnly)
              Stage            No. of StaffWeeks                US$ Thousands
                                                        (includingtravel and consultant

Lending
              FY05                              59.75             375,591.53
              FY06                              35.55             183,175.68
                      TOTAL:                     95.1             558,767.21
Supervision/ICR
              FY05                               3.15             140,087.26
              FY06                              10.23             94,285.08
                       TOTAL                    13.38             234,372.34

                                                            47                                                 ANNEXIV




                 Name                               Title                     Unit              Responsibility/Specialty


II Jeeva
   Gregor Binkert                     Lead Specialist                   1AFTPI
         A. Perumalpillai-Essex

   Peter G. Moll                  III Sr.
                                      Lead Operations Officer           JAFTSI

                                           Country Economist            IAFTP  I            Macro framework
I Antonio   Franco                I Sr.    Economist                    IAFTP  I
III Peter                                                                                   PARPA

    Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto       Research Analyst                    AFTPI            Macro fiamework

    Lurdes SamuelMalate Amaral

         Nicholas                 III Country
                                       Executive Assistant

                                                Program Coordinator     IIIAFCMZ
                                                                           AFTP1       II1II Country
                                                                                            Administrative support

                                                                                                      Strategy             IIIII
    Gilbert0 de Barros                 Sr. Private Sector Development                       Private Sector Development

II Daniel                              Specialist

    Louise FOX

          DeSousa                   1I Lead Specialist                  ~AFTPM

                                       Investment Officer               IAFTS  1       II Agriculture
                                                                                            Poverty

                                                                                                         Sector           II
I Caroline   Forkin                                                            I

   Jacomina de Regt               II Lead                               IAFTS
                                            Specialist                  ~ A F T S ~    II HIV/AIDS
                                                                                            HIV/AIDS                      II
    Luisa Matsinhe                I Team     Assistant                  IAFTS  I Administrativesupport
                                                                                       I                                   I
   Caroline Guazzo                    Language Program Assistant           AFTS1            Administrative support

    Noel Kulemeka                      Sr. Economist                       AFTH1            Education Sector

   Alexandria Valerio                  Sr. Education Specialist            AFTH1            Education Sector

   Humberto Cossa                      Sr. Health Specialist              AFTHI             Health Sector

   Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine        Lead Operations Officer             AFTH1             Health Sector

   Kate Kuper                         Sr. UrbanSpecialist                 AFTU1             Decentralization
I Lance   Morrell                 I Lead    Operations Officer          1 AFTUl                      ~~



                                                                                   K n t ralization

   Kathy Revels                       Principal Regional Team                               Water Sector
                                      Leader                          lAFTU1
   Jose Luis Macamo                   Public Sector Management            AFTPR             Public Sector Reform
                                      Specialist
I Ravi   Ruparel                  I Sr.   Financial sector Specialist IAFTFS           1 Financial     Sector


