                                    Document of
                                  the World Bank

                                                         Report No: ICR2673




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                  (IDA Grant H440-BJ and IDA Credit 4538-SN)

                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.1 MILLION
                          (US$9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                   AND ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.70 MILLION
                         (US$7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                           TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                    FOR THE

WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA AIR TRANSPORT SAFETY AND SECURITY PROGRAM


                                   June 18, 2013




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Regional Office
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2013)

                         Currency Unit = FCFA (XOF)
                          SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.509240
                           US$ 1.00 = FCFA 498.16

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADS      Senegal Airport, Aéroport du Senegal
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
ANAC     National Civil Aviation Agency, Agence Nationale de l’Aviation
         Civile (Benin)
ANACIM   National Civil Aviation and Meteorology Agency, Agence Nationale
         de l’Aviation Civile et de la Météorologie (Sénégal)
AVSEC    Aviation Security
BEA      Accident Investigation Office, Bureau Enquêtes Accidents
CAA      Civil Aviation Authority, Autorité de l’Aviation Civile
CEMPA    Medical Center for Aviation Personnel, Centre d’Expertise Médicale
         du Personnel Aéronautique
CPPR     Country Portfolio Performance Review
DGTAIA   General Directorate of Air Transport and Aeronautical Infrastructure,
         Direction Générale des Transports Aériens et des Infrastructures
         Aéronautiques
DNCMP    National Directorate of Procurement Control, Direction Nationale du
         Contrôle des Marchés publics(Benin)
DPL      Development Policy Lending
ECOWAS   Economic Community for West and Central Africa
EOP      End of project
ESMP     Environmental and social management plan
FAA      Federal Aviation Administration
FCFA     African Financial Community Franc, Franc de la Communauté
         Financière Africaine
FMS      Financial Management Specialist
GSD      General Services Department
HAALSS   High Authority of the Léopold Sédar Senghor Airport, Haute Autorité
         de l’Aéroport Léopold Sédar Senghor
IASA     International Aviation Safety Assessment
ICAO     International Civil Aviation Organization
ICR      Implementation completion report
ICVM     ICAO Coordinated Validation Missions
IDA          International Development Authority
IDA 15       IDA’S 15th replenishment
IDF          International Development Fund
KPI          Key Performance Indicators
LSS          Leopold Sédar Senghor Airport, Aéroport Leopold Sedar Senghor
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NGO          Non-Governmental organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PNSAC        National Civil Aviation Security Plan, Programme National de Sûreté
             de l’Aviation Civile
QER          Quality Enhancement Review
RIAS         Regional Integration Assistance Strategy
SAR          Search and Rescue Center, Centre de Recherche et de Sauvetage
SRP          Standards and Recommended Practices
SSA          Sub Saharan Africa
TSA          Transport Security Administration
TTL          Task Team Leader
UCP          Program Coordination Unit, Unité de Coordination du Projet,
WCA          West and Central Africa
WCAATSSP     West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program
YD           Yamoussoukro Decision




                           Vice President:    Makhtar Diop
             Regional Integration Director:   Colin Bruce
                          Sector Manager:     Supee Teravaninthorn
                    Project Team Leader:      Ibou Diouf
         ICR Team Leader/Primary Author:      Peter Ngwa Taniform
                                          Benin and Senegal
                   West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program

                                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 43
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 44
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                        3A W/C Africa Air
Country:               Africa                     Project Name:
                                                                        Transport Phase II-B
                                                                        IDA-45380,IDA-
Project ID:            P108583                    L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                        H4400
ICR Date:              06/18/2013                 ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    APL                        Borrower:             BENIN AND
                                                                        SENEGAL
Original Total
                         XDR 10.80M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 7.50M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 10.80M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Civil Aviation of Benin
 Civil aviation of Senegal
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/08/2008    Effectiveness:            08/11/2009       12/09/2009
Appraisal:             08/25/2008    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/25/2009    Mid-term Review:          05/09/2011       06/17/2011
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2012       12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
       Bank                  Ratings            Borrower                        Ratings
                                                                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:      Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                        Unsatisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank           Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower         Moderately

                                              i
Performance:                               Performance:         Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                               Indicators                              Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                  Quality at Entry
                          No                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                      (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                    Quality of
                          Yes                                  None
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                      18                  18
Public administration- Transportation                         82                  82



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regional integration                                            30                 30
Trade facilitation and market access                            70                 70

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                   At ICR                           At Approval
 Vice President:         Makhtar Diop                      Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
 Regional Director:      Colin Bruce                       Richard Scobey (Acting)
.Country Director        Vera Songwe / Madani M. Tall      Mark D. Tomlinson
 Sector Manager:         Supee Teravaninthorn              C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
 Project Team Leader:    Ibou Diouf                        Pierre A. Pozzo di Borgo
 ICR Team Leader:        Peter Ngwa Taniform
 ICR Primary Author:     Peter Ngwa Taniform

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives are as follows: (i) improve national Civil Aviation
Authorities' (CAAs') compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization's (ICAO's)
safety standards, (ii) increase national CAA's compliance with ICAO's security standards, and
(iii) enhance main international airports' compliance with ICAO's security standards.



                                             ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives were not revised.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                          Revised Target
                                             approval                          Completion or
                                                                Values
                                           documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1: Improve CAA's compliance rates with ICAO's safety standards
Value           (a) Senegal: 58%       (a) Senegal: 85%                      (a) Senegal: 66.5%
quantitative or (b) Benin: 20%         (b) Benin >60%                        (b) Benin: 43%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/03/2009               12/31/2012                            12/31/2012
                Senegal: achieved=78%
Comments
                Benin: achieved=72%
(incl. %
                Based on internal Audit following guidelines for improvement of the project
achievement)
                given by the ICAO on its last visit.
Indicator 2: CAA's compliance rates with ICAO's security standards
Value           (a) Senegal: 28%.      (a) Senegal >80%                      (a) Senegal: 81.6%
quantitative or (b) Benin: 32%         (b)Benin: 70%                         (b) Benin: 32%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/03/2009               12/31/2012                            12/31/2012
                Senegal: achieved=102%
Comments
                Benin: achieved=0%
(incl. %
                Based on internal Audit following the guidelines for improvement of the project
achievement)
                given by the ICAO on its last visit.
                Percentage of embarking passengers stopped in possession of illegal objects as
Indicator 3: defined by ICAO, by private security personnel mandated by airlines or airport
                authorities, or/and by the National Police
Value           (a) Senegal: 4%        (a) Senegal <2%                       (a) Senegal: 0.00%
quantitative or (b) Benin: 2.6%        (b) Benin <1%                         (b) Benin: 0.74%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/03/2009               12/31/2012                            12/31/2012
                Senegal: achieved= 100%
Comments
                Benin: achieved=100%
(incl. %
                Baseline value revised from 0.3 to 2.6 (see page 32 of the PAD (footnote 13) for
achievement)
                the reason of percentage change of the baseline data).




                                               iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                         Revised Target
                                              approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                  Proportion of technical personnel of the CAA complying with ICAO safety
Indicator 1 :
                  standards.
Value             (a) Senegal: 39%      (a) Senegal: 85%                    (a) Senegal: 70%
(quantitative     (b) Benin: 1%         (b) Benin > 50%                     (b) Benin: 11%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/03/2009           12/31/2012                              12/31/2012
Comments          Senegal: achieved= 82%
(incl. %          Benin: achieved= 22%
achievement)      Based on an independent audit.
Indicator 2:      CAA's Total budget amount. (in FCFA billions)
Value             (a) Senegal: 3.42    (a) Senegal: 4.76                       (a) Senegal: 6.9
(quantitative     (b) Benin: 1.20      (b) Benin: 1.40                         (b) Benin: 2.98
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/03/2009              12/31/2012                            12/31/2012
                  Senegal: achieved= 145%
Comments
                  Benin: achieved= 213%
(incl. %
                  Based on Internal audits following the guidelines for improvement of the project
achievement)
                  given by ICAO on its last visit.
                  Proportion of security inspectors employed by the CAA having received, during
Indicator 3:
                  the last three years security training compliant with ICAO standards.
Value             (a) Senegal: 45%        (a) Senegal: 80%                      (a) Senegal: 100%
(quantitative     (b) Benin: 20%          (b) Benin: 60%                        (b) Benin: 65%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/03/2009               12/31/2012                               12/31/2012
Comments
                Senegal: achieved= 125%
(incl. %
                Benin: achieved= 108%
achievement)
                Level of CAA and other entities' budget dedicated to security (in FCFA
Indicator 4:
                billions).
Value           (a) Senegal: 2.00      (a) Senegal: 3.30                        (a) Senegal: 3.40
(quantitative (b) Benin: 0.286         (b) Benin: 0.378                         (b) Benin: 1.89
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/03/2009               12/31/2012                               12/31/2012
Comments        Senegal: achieved=103%
(incl. %        Benin: achieved=500%
achievement) Achieved.
                Proportion of airport security personnel with at least three or more years of
Indicator 5:
                experience.


                                                 iv
Value             (a) Senegal: 72%        (a) Senegal >80%                     (a) Senegal: 85%
(quantitative     (b) Benin: 37%          (b) Benin >50%                       (b) Benin: 57%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/03/2009           12/31/2012                             12/31/2012
Comments          Senegal: achieved=106%
(incl. %          Benin: achieved=114%
achievement)      Achieved.
Indicator 6:      Number of serious problems recorded during airport crisis simulation exercises
Value
                  Senegal: 5              Senegal: <3                          Senegal: 3
(quantitative
                  Benin: N/A              Benin: <3                            Benin: NA
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/03/2009            12/31/2012                            12/31/2012
                  Senegal: achieved=100%
Comments
                  Benin: achieved=Not Available
(incl. %
                  Simulation exercise for Benin to determine this value was not carried out by the
achievement)
                  time of this report.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                       IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
                              Moderately              Moderately
  1     11/30/2009                                                                          0.67
                            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  2     03/09/2010       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.46
  3     09/04/2010       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.65
  4     03/27/2011       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    3.40
                                                      Moderately
  5     10/09/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                                            7.50
                                                    Unsatisfactory
  6     06/23/2012       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    9.02
                              Moderately              Moderately
  7     12/31/2012                                                                       10.58
                            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and sector background. At the time of appraisal, air transport accounted for up
to 40 percent of world trade by value. In Africa, air transport plays a significant role in the
economic development of countries. Poor road, port and railway infrastructure often constrains
the rapid and efficient movements of high value goods earmarked for export. Air transport holds
both a potential for growth and a role for the economic development of the continent.

2.       In order to address these shortcomings, African Ministers responsible for civil aviation
adopted on November 14, 1999, the Yamoussoukro Decision (YD) on the liberalization of access
to air transport markets in Africa. It is enforceable continent-wide since it was endorsed by the
African Union Heads of State under the African Union treaty framework in 2000. The Decision’s
primary aim is to liberalize intra-African air transport. In order to achieve this goal without
compromising safety and security standards, the region’s Civil Aviation and Airport Authorities
(CAAs) must be capable to collectively reach International Civil Aviation Organization’s
(ICAO) standards in these areas. ICAO’s Standards and Recommended Practices (SRP) are
contained in most of the Annexes of the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation in
the case of aviation safety, and Annexes 9 and 17 in the case of aviation security and facilitation.

3.       The main safety 1 issues facing West and Central Africa’s (WCA) air transport sector
included the lack of a compliant and enabling legal framework as well as a critical shortage in
qualified inspection manpower. In WCA, fewer than six countries 2 out of 23 were considered to
have the required level of Civil Aviation Administration capacities. The situation resulted in the
presence of unqualified operators. Their operations distorted the air transport market preventing
access to the world market for local African airlines and contributed largely to WCA high
accident rates. According to ICAO’s statistics, the WCA region air transport accident rate was
thirty times higher than of the United States during the past years 3.

4.      In terms of security 4 , less than five of WCA’s numerous international airports were
compliant with world standards. Indeed, most WCA international airports lacked basic access
control to runways and terminals as well as adequate security procedures. This situation
endangered WCA’s air transport network security, resulting in sky-high insurance costs and high
internal security costs for airlines. Moreover, in a post September 11, 2001 environment, WCA
has been further isolated from main air trade flows.

5.      Rationale for Bank assistance. The Bank was instrumental in the adoption of the YD. It
later supported through successive regional International Development Fund (IDF) grants, the


1
  ICAO Definition of Air Transport Safety: A condition in which the risk of harm or damage is limited to an acceptable level.
2
  Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea , Benin , Mali and Senegal
3
  In 2005 alone, out of 35 fatal accidents and the 1,269 related deaths worldwide, Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) accounted for 13 of
these accidents and 374 of these deaths or 37 percent and 29 percent of the World’s total, respectively. These figures compare to
SSA’s share of the world’s total departure of only 4.5 percent.
4
  ICAO Definition Air Transport Security: A combination of measures and human and material resources intended to safeguard
civil aviation against acts of unlawful interference.


                                                                1
adoption of common policies in safety and air transport regulations in WCA. The Bank along
with regional institutions, as well as other international lenders had to acknowledge that most
WCA states did not and would not, in the foreseeable future, have the financial and human
resources to comply with either United States’ or International ICAO’s safety and security
requirements, unless external assistance was provided to them. Moreover, even when a State did
prove its ability to comply with ICAO’s requirements, its capacity to maintain compliance and
retain qualified personnel remained questionable. This can be illustrated by the Ghanaian CAA
loss of its US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) International Aviation Safety Assessment
(IASA) category I certification in April of 2005. Accordingly, the Bank in coordination with
regional institutions and other international lenders, adopted a comprehensive approach to
globally address these problems by supporting: (a) the establishment of regional mechanisms to
oversee safety and security standards in member countries, and (b) the financing of national
safety and security support programs to enhance local CAA’s ability to comply with ICAO’s
standards.

6.      In spite of the long term goal of establishing regional 5 aviation safety agencies in WCA,
the enforcement of aviation safety and security at the time of appraisal remained in the
foreseeable future, a national endeavor if only for legal reasons 6 . It was critical that known
shortcomings affecting national CAAs aviation safety and security oversight capacity, as well as
airport security personnel and infrastructure be addressed at a national level, because regional
aviation safety and security reflects each country’s achievements in these areas. This critical
linkage between national and regional aviation safety and security was confirmed by a review of
passenger traffic flows that showed that in 2006, more than 90 percent of all passengers in
Senegal and Benin were regionally and internationally bound. This approach was in line with the
Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (RIAS) for West Africa, adopted on August 2, 2001,
and for Central Africa, adopted on February 6, 2003, as well as the Africa Action Plan adopted in
September 6, 2005, in as much as it promotes, through regional integration, regional exchanges
and economic growth.

7.       In light of the above, the West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security
Program (WCAATSSP) met all of the Bank’s regional eligibility criteria as it: (a) involved more
than two countries; (b) included economic and social benefits by enhancing carriers services and
lower transport costs that promoted national and regional tourism and trade growth; (c)
supported ongoing regional initiatives to enhance aviation security and safety levels within WCA
countries which, in turn, enhanced the implementation of the YD, and (d) funded national
activities which had clear externalities, as the overall WCA countries’ air safety and security
depend on each country’s achievement in these areas and most WCA countries’ air traffic is
international, with a significant intra-regional market share.

8.     Lending instrument. At appraisal, since the readiness and needs of the 23 WCA
countries that were to receive support from the program varied significantly, it was decided to


5
  Regional as used in this paragraph refers to the Economic Community for West and Central Africa
6
  According to the 1944 Chicago convention, aviation regulation remains a sovereign activity. All signatory states (191) to the
Chicago Convention are bound to ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices, and must comply in terms of safety oversight. If
they cannot, they can choose to delegate. Until this approach is altered, air safety and security will continue to be managed at
national levels.


                                                               2
select a horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument to allow for a phased long-term
development program. Countries were to join the program under three successive phases using
similar eligibility criteria. These criteria were: (a) the creation of an administratively and
financially autonomous national civil aviation agency, (b) the use of aviation security and/or
safety taxes for the purpose of financing its civil aviation agency and, (c) the attainment of
definite percentage of compliance level with ICAO’s standards in the areas of aviation security
and safety, as well as improved airport security. The program was financed through the IDA
program for regional projects under the IDA’s 15th replenishment (IDA 15), with country IDA
allocations funding one third of its cost and regional IDA funding financing two thirds of its
costs in recognition of the positive externalities of the program.

9.     Under Phase I of the program, approved by the Board in April 2006, four countries;
namely Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea and Mali, received a total of US$33.57 million in grant
and credit financing. Phase II-A of the program was initiated with Nigeria following Board’s
approval in October 2007, with a Credit amounting US$46.65 million. Phase II-B of the program
included Benin and Senegal, focus of this review, for an estimated total investment cost of
US$16.00 million. Phase III to include: Mauritania, the Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea,
Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Niger, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Chad, Central African
Republic, Sao Tomé & Principe, and Togo for an estimated investment cost of US$55.28 million,
was never triggered.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

10.     The PDO 7. As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) which were applicable to
all program’s phases, and therefore to Benin and Senegal, the PDO were to: (a) improve national
CAAs compliance with ICAO safety standards, (b) Increase CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s
security standards, and (c) Enhance main international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s
security standards.

11.    Key Indicators of Performance. In order to measure attainment of these PDOs, the
following key outcome indicators and target values were used for all participating countries:




7
  PDO as stated in the Financing Agreement: “The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient in improving compliance of
its civil aviation sector and its international airports with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) safety and security
standards?




                                                                3
                                 Table 1: Indicators at Appraisal
          Key Performance Indicators                          Main Project Output Indicators
                                                         •   Compliance rate with ICAO aggregate
                                                             safety standards based on ICAO’s audits,
                                                             with all actions in their Corrective Action
1. Improve CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s safety               Plan completed;
   standards.                                            •   Percentage of technical personnel in
                                                             compliance with ICAO’s safety standards;
                                                             and Total CAA’s budget amount.


                                                         •   Compliance rate with ICAO’s aggregate
                                                             security standards based on ICAO’s audit,
                                                             with all recommendations addressed;
                                                         •   Percentage of CAA’s ICAO’s certified
                                                             security inspectors trained during the last
2. Improve CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s                      three years;
   security standards.                                   •   Level of CAA’s budget dedicated to
                                                             security; and
                                                         •   National Security Plan compliance with
                                                             ICAO’s standards.

                                                         •   Percentage of airport security personnel
                                                             with three or more years of experience;
                                                         •   Number of serious problems recorded
3. Enhance main international airports’ compliance           during annual airport crisis exercises; and
   with ICAO’s security standards.                       •   Percentage of embarking passengers
                                                             stopped in possession of illegal objects, as
                                                             defined by the ICAO, by airlines security
                                                             personnel or the police.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification.

12.     The PDO was not revised. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) were similarly left
unchanged. The most critically examined indicators during project implementation, were those
related to the compliance rate with ICAO’s aggregate security standards based on past ICAO’s
audits in both countries.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries:

13.     The PAD did not explicitly identify project beneficiaries. However, it infers at design
stage that the CAA’s and airport authorities of countries, airlines and passengers were expected
to benefit directly from the outcomes of the project. More specifically through the: (a)
improvement of national CAAs compliance with ICAO’s safety standards, (b) increase of CAA’s
compliance with ICAO’s security standards, in both cases, to achieve international average with



                                                     4
all actions in their Corrective Action Plan contained in the respective audits completed, and (c)
enhancement of main international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s security standards.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

14.     The project consisted of three components at appraisal for a total amount of US$16
million (US$9 million for Benin and US$7 million equivalent for Senegal). They were clearly
linked to the PDOs and key indicators and built upon the work carried out under Phase I. These
components 8 were:

(a) Component 1: Aviation safety improvements (US$7.6 million)

For Benin (US$3.9 million):
   • Equipment and training for “Search and Rescue? activities;
   • Replacement of basic communication and inspections equipment (e.g., very high
      frequency (VHF) radios, telephone network within the airport area, IT network at
      headquarters, etc.);
   • Purchase of technical library equipment (e.g., relevant ICAO’s manuals, directives,
      online library, training materials, etc.);
   • Training of civil aviation staff in the area of civil aviation safety oversight;
   • Dissemination and translation (in English) of updated regulations; and
   • Personnel training based on a prior needs assessment study.

For Senegal (US$3.7 million):
   • Medical equipment for the National Civil Aviation (Agence Nationale de l’Aviation
      Civile, ANACS);
   • Equipment and training for “Search and Rescue? activities;
   • Setting-up of an independent office for aircraft incidents and accidents investigation;
   • Purchase of technical library equipment (e.g., relevant ICAO’s manuals, directives,
      online library, training materials, etc.);
   • Training of civil aviation staff in the area of civil aviation safety oversight;
   • Dissemination and translation (in English) of updated regulations; and
   • Personnel training based on a prior needs assessment study.

(b) Component 2: Aviation security improvements (USS6.2 million)

For Benin (US$3.8 million):
   • Improvement of airport security through the acquisition of passengers and cargo x-ray
      machines as well as an explosive material tracer;
   • Acquisition of airport personnel identification equipment, security cameras,
      communications systems, and inspection equipment;
   • Training of civil aviation staff in the area of civil aviation security;
   • Training of airport security personnel.


8
    As stated in the PAD


                                               5
For Senegal (US$2.4 million):
   • Updating of technical regulation;
   • Installation of an access control system at the airport;
   • Training of airport security personnel;
   • Acquisition of training equipments, communication equipments, and patrol vehicles; and
   • Review of the institutional framework and fees allocation among civil aviation entities.

(c) Component 3: Management and governance oversight of the national component of the
    program (US$4.2 million)

   •   For Benin (US$2.3 million) and for Senegal (US$1.9 million). This activity was meant to
       encompass the financing of national program component operating costs covering CAA
       program dedicated personnel salaries for fiduciary management and technical
       management, office rentals and expenses as well as inter alia annual fiduciary audits and
       day-to-day management.

1.6 Revised Components

15. No changes were made to the project components throughout its duration

1.7 Other significant changes

16.     During the Mid-Term Review (MTR) conducted in June and July 2011, the project
implementation was assessed and the results framework for the project was updated based on the
findings of the MTR. Some activities were refined or added after the MTR to allow a better
measurement of the achievements, and to align more closely with the results framework. Most of
these activities were small in size and based on the implementing agencies’ capacity, availability
of funds and relevance to PDO. These additional activities were implemented within the scope of
the project as described in the Financing Agreement, so no restructuring of the project was
needed.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.     Project preparation was driven by the urgent reality to establish a compliant aviation
safety and security oversight regime in Africa, especially in WCA, which were poor by
international standards and which continued to be inefficient, expensive and unreliable. The main
safety issues facing WCA’s air transport sector at the time included the lack of a compliant and
enabling legal framework, as well as critical shortage in qualified inspection manpower.
According to ICAO’s statistics then, the WCA region air transport accident rate was thirty times
higher than that of the United States.

18.     Overall the series of operations addressing regional aviation security and safety program
in the Africa region were pioneering in their nature, and there were few precedents in the Bank
that could be used during the project design phase. However, in the case of the project, its


                                                6
preparation was facilitated as it benefitted from findings from the implementation of the APL1
[and APL2A] 9 in its design. More specifically, project preparation and design made use of the
analysis of previous projects that preceded it in the APL series, and from a thorough assessment
of the lessons learned under APL 1, the YD and ICAO audits. Lessons learned for project design
included: (a) reflection in the project design of the intent, interest, and priorities of the
beneficiaries and stakeholders so as to ensure their ownership and particularly their support to
the accompanying reform processes; (b) coordination with other donors in order to ensure
consistency in the goals and expected outcomes of all planned and ongoing programs within the
same sector; and (c) emphasis on capacity building for the targeted agencies.

19.     A feature of the project design was the use of several effectiveness conditions. These set
of effectiveness conditions did not seem to take into account the particularity and responsiveness
of each country at the time. Consequently, expectations were too optimistic with regard to their
attainment. For example, while Benin had a fast declaration of effectiveness, Senegal had two
extensions of effectiveness deadline and managed to fulfill this barely a week before the
expiration of the second effectiveness deadline. The seven month delay in the effectiveness of
the Senegalese credit agreement resulted in significant delays in the implementation of key
project activities, which created a disbursement lag of about eight months and which were never
re-absorbed throughout the life of the project. Furthermore, the initial implementation set up in
each country had a direct implication on the overall performance of the project, greatly affecting
the status of the project throughout as well. Beside the effectiveness delay in Senegal, the
performance of the project was equally penalized by Benin’s poor implementation capacity.

20.     The project design was simple and innovative. It was responsive to critical aviation safety
and security requirements and had room for flexibility which allowed for the modification of
project activities without having to modify the PDO. The project design paid close attention to
an effectively measurable results framework. Its objectives and design remain highly relevant
today. Nonetheless, the project implementation timeframe, failed to integrate the challenges
linked with institutional and policy reforms which usually lasts very long, and often require a
substantial lead time to get a reform/policy underway.

21.     The PAD assessed key potential risks that could jeopardize implementation. In retrospect,
the mitigating measures to prevent these risks were not effective enough, as two main risks
identified and rated as Moderate did materialize. These included; the underestimation of the
implementation capacity of the program’s activities by CAAs and the governance risks
especially as related to procurement.

2.2 Implementation

22.     The project had three distinct phases: (a) the period before the MTR during which there
were overly optimistic evaluation of KPIs in both countries; (b) a subsequent 10-month phase of
uncertainty during which there were implementation bottlenecks in Senegal and procurement
delays in Benin; and (c) a final phase where performance progressively improved for Senegal but


9
 Adaptable Program Loan (APL): instrument to allow for a phased long-term development program APL 1 (included; Burkina
Faso, Cameroon, Guinea and Mali) and 2A included Nigeria.


                                                           7
deteriorated for Benin. The MTR recommendations were implemented in both Benin and
Senegal with some delays in their implementation. Evaluation of project performance and
implementation status became complex given the correlation of overall project performance to
each country’s performance. When one country performs well and the other poorly, overall
project performance is greatly influenced by the poor performing country’s rating.

23.     A major issue that impacted the implementation of the Senegal’s component was the
decision in mid-2011 by the Government to cancel the procurement of the video surveillance
equipment for the Leopold Sédar Senghor Airport (Aéroport Leopold Sédar Senghor LSS), which
at that time, was ready to disburse about 20 percent of the credit amount. This decision was
overturned a year later by the new Government that took office. Implementation was equally
affected by the fact that the Government took a long time to finalize arrangements related to the
management of the aeronautic medical center, and the funding and procurement of works to
rehabilitate the buildings that would house the Aeronautic medical center and the Search and
rescue center.

24.     In Benin, even though implementation and disbursements were initially Satisfactory, by
mid-2010, the Benin component was negatively impacted by the slow national procurement
processes which resulted in significant delays in the implementation of key project activities. The
slow implementation of the training plan and the preparation of the airport crisis simulation
exercise, as well as the persistence of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in pushing
unjustified single-source contracts only resulted in prolonged procurement processes. Delays
were aggravated by the two complaints registered in the procurement process of key equipment
to be purchased under the project and which were essential to the attainment of PDOs.

25.     Looking back, project implementation seemed to consistently face challenges. This
resulted in an overall impression that many elements could have been better implemented or
handled. Implementation was almost never rated as satisfactory after the MTR in June/July 2011
(Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory or Unsatisfactory depending on the issues).
Globally, the project fell short of its development objectives and the attainment of KPIs, even
though in the end, it seemed to have accomplished more activities than what was initially
projected. This was because activities were added after MTR to make up for the cost savings that
resulted from over-estimation of most initial project’s activities in both countries.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.     The M&E system was design at the time of project preparation based on the findings of
the various ICAO audits that were needed to improve aviation safety and security in Senegal and
Benin. The KPIs for the project were for the most part measurable and meaningful. Initially the
evaluation of the KPIs was too optimistic vs. achievements. This was more of an implementation
constraint as the design was clear on what should be measured and how it should be measured.
These gradually became inconsistent when subsequent ICAO audits were carried out to follow
up the progress of KPIs after MTR. Given the unpredictability, and lack of coordination between
the ICAO and national audit missions, the PIUs did not always have in a timely manner the real
values of these indicators.




                                                8
27.     The self-evaluation from the CAAs which were more vague and difficult to follow, were
not reliable and led to inconsistent data for KPIs. As a result, these indicators were not closely
evaluated and monitored during the course of implementation as per ICAOs audits as noted by
the Bank team during several supervision missions. At the end of the project, it became
imperative to revise the self-evaluated indicators as per ICAOs audits in order to fully reflect real
project achievements. This was not possible for both countries and therefore made it difficult to
actually measure real achievements and compliance at project closure. An independent certified
ICAO auditor was recruited to revise Senegal’s achievements while Benin relied solely on the
evaluation carried out by the Economic Community for West and Central Africa (ECOWAS).
The achievements recorded in the Result framework are those compared to previous ICAO
audits and may improve after such audit is carried out after project completion 10. The project
M&E design fell short to capture the shortcomings. One weak area for M&E as well was the lack
of a measureable indicator for the social impacts of the project, even though this was considered
secondary at design; the main being regulatory.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.    Environment. At the time of appraisal no sensitive environmental issues were identified
and none of the policies were triggered. That’s because the proposed investments essentially
consisted in the acquisition of basic communication and inspection equipment and the
development of safety and security programs which had no direct environmental or social
safeguard implications.

29.     Financial Management (FM). Financial management was mostly rated satisfactory
throughout project implementation. This could be attributed to the due diligence accorded to this
during appraisal, which consisted of strengthening the financial management team of each PIU
with a Financial Management Specialist (FMS) whose terms of reference included a clear
obligation to train counterparts’ staff in order to strengthen their capacity.

30.     Procurement. At project appraisal, all procurement arrangements including procurement
plan and procurement methods were discussed and agreed consistent with the Bank’s guidelines.
Procurement faced major challenges throughout project implementation for both countries.
Initial difficulties in the preparation of terms of references and technical specifications of key
project activities were common for both Senegal and Benin components of the project. The
situation improved through experience sharing with countries of APL-1 11. At project closure,
procurement performance was rated “Moderately Satisfactory? for both countries.

31.    Benin. Procurement was affected by: (a) long delays (up to 10 months) in approval of
tender documents by the National Directorate of Procurement Control (Direction Nationale du
Contrôle des Marchés publics, DNCMP Benin) (the Government entity in charge of national
procurement); (b) continued delays in the approval of contracts and procurement documents by
the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance; and (c) the weak capacity of PIU,


10
   It is recommended that each country carries out a follow-up ICAO audit to effectively measure the impact of the project since
at the time of completion this had not been done.
11
   Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea, Mali and Nigeria.


                                                                9
resulting in poor quality of procurement documents which were often not up to standard when
submitted to IDA. This was evidenced also by deficiencies in procurement planning and
monitoring; procurement cycle management; and procurement record keeping. The lack of
proactivity in addressing procurement delays by the PIU and two complaints registered in the
procurement process of key equipment which were essential to the attainment of PDOs were
other factors that impeded procurement performance. The systemic slow processing of
procurement documents was brought to the Governments' attention and pointed out during
Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) meetings which resulted in a slight improvement
of the national procurement processing timelines.

32.     Senegal. Even though the procurement performance of the PIU was mostly rated
satisfactory, procurement process was negatively impacted by interference of government
officials (cf. paragraph 23). Consequently, procurement of equipment to be purchased and of
works to refurbish the buildings that would house the Aeronautic medical and the search and
rescue centers, were delayed by the laborious national procurement procedures.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

33.     Extensive training program offered by the project, for civil aviation staff in Safety and
Security, yielded positive results and drastically improved both Senegal and Benin’s compliance
rate with ICAO standards. It is expected that this momentum generated in building staff capacity
as well as the significant increases of financial resources dedicated to Safety and Security by
both countries will help sustained project achievements and act as a better platform for future
investments after project closing. If finally ratified, the revised Civil Aviation codes and key
decrees on aviation for both countries initiated by the project will continue to serve as excellent
tools in facilitating progress towards efficiency in the sector.

34.     Given that aviation security and safety remains a major pre-occupation in determining the
future and success of Africa’s aviation industry, it will be necessary to re-think the design of a
new package to address these critical needs taking into account the lessons learnt from previous
projects. The Bank should equally consider strengthening its dialogue in the sector with other
development partners and work at helping the continent toward a more meaningful and robust
approach.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (HIGH)

35.     The project design was relevant to the country’s development priorities and their air
transport safety and security needs. The project objectives were clear, relevant and important to
improve regulatory oversight and in strengthening institutional management. The project
components had a good linkage with the project objectives. The project also contributed to
improving the compliance rate with respect to ICAO standards as per the audit report at project
start. The project objectives were also in line with the WCAATSS priorities, which targeted the
(a) improvement of national CAAs' compliance with ICAO's safety standards, (b) increase of




                                                10
national CAA's compliance with ICAO's security standards, and (c) enhancement of the main
international airports' compliance with ICAO's security standards.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

36.     On the basis of the assessment of what was achieved under the project against the
specific project objectives described below, the overall achievement of the PDOs has been rated
as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

37.     What follows is a detailed assessment of the project’s achievements against its specific
objectives.

3.2.1 Improve National Civil Aviation Authorities compliance with ICAO safety standards.

(a) Senegal
The Senegal component of the project has been rated Moderately Satisfactory for the following
reasons.

38.     First, although there was an improvement compared to before project situation, the
registered ICAO safety compliance rate of Senegal CAA remains short of expectations. Indeed,
the safety compliance rate as verified by an independent audit stands at 66.5 percent compared to
a baseline of 58 percent and an end of project (EOP) target of 85 percent. The most critical
weaknesses identified were: (a) the lack of enforcement of some technical procedures; (b) the
insufficient number of qualified (certified by ICAO) human resources; and (c) the fact that some
operational procedures were not formalized.

39.     The above-mentioned improvement in the safety compliance rate of Senegal’s civil
aviation is largely attributable to the revision of the Civil Aviation Code supported by the project.
In fact, the draft code which has been approved by experts was taken into account by the ICAO
safety audit although its formal approval is in the process of being approved by the Government.
This draft code so far, given its quality, has helped in inspiring current and future aviation
projects.

40.    Second, in terms of ICAO compliance of technical personnel involved in safety, the
support provided under the project helped ensure that 70 percent of National Civil Aviation and
Meteorology Agency (ANACIM) safety staffs possess standardized skills and knowledge to allow
them to perform their duties in a way that is fully compliant with ICAO standards, compared to
39 percent in 2009. Although the end of project target of 85 percent was not achieved, this is
substantial progress

41.    More specifically, the project has trained a total of 188 civil aviation safety staffs: 118
from ANACIM, 67 from Senegal Airport (Aéroport du Sénégal, ADS), one from Leopold Sédar
Senghor Airport Authority (Haute Autorité de l’Aéroport Léopold Sédar Senghor HAALSS) and
two from the Search and Rescue Centre (SAR). Areas covered by the training program include:
Navigation, Accident Investigation, Accident Prevention, Dangerous Merchandise, Search and
Rescue, and Safety audits.



                                                11
42.     Third, the project supported the establishment of an aeronautical health center in Senegal
which is being made operational. The center which was provided by the project with key medical
equipment (equipment for cardiology, ophthalmology, radiology, and laboratory function) is
expected to have a sub-regional coverage. That’s because, until now, medical examination of
flight crews in West Africa is performed in Europe and North Africa due to lack of such a center
in the sub-region. The Government provided the building which houses the medical center and
also the doctors and other medical staffs.

43.    The SAR center which is a key element of the aviation safety chain was strengthened
under the project. The Government rehabilitated the building which houses the center while the
project provided office and computer equipment, vehicle equipped with telecommunication
equipment and other key communication equipment. This has allowed the successful
organization of a Search and Rescue Exercise to test the capabilities of the CAA in responding to
accidents and crisis.

44.      The Accident Investigation Office (Bureau Enquêtes Accidents BEA) which is another
important ingredient of safety oversight has been established by decree on October 11, 2004.
However, it is not operational due to lack of initial capacity in terms of staffing and technical
equipment. The support planned under the project did not materialize due to delay in the
establishment of the BEA.

45.     Finally, the overall budget of ANACIM has substantially increased over the life of the
project mainly as a result of a better recovery and allocation of aviation related taxes. The initial
target of African Financial Community Franc, Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
FCFA) 4.76 billion for 2012 was exceeded by 145 percent. The current annual average budget
which is estimated at FCFA 6.9 12 billion (compared to a baseline value of FCFA 3.42 billion) is
sufficient to allow ANACIM to perform its regulatory duties.

(b) Benin
The Benin component of the project has been rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for the following
reasons.

46.    First, the Benin CAA safety compliance rate remains significantly short of expectations
as documented in the ICAO audit conducted in 2011. Although the registered compliance rate
(43 percent) is an improvement compared to the 20 percent compliance rate recorded in 2009,
the end of project target of 60 percent is unmet for the similar reasons as for Senegal (cf.
paragraph 38). The safety compliance rate took into account the updated regulatory framework
of the aviation sector contained in the revised Civil Aviation Code which is in the process of
being approved by the Government.

47.     Secondly, the compliance rate of safety technical staffs of ANAC remains extremely low
in spite of the extensive training program implemented under the project: 11 percent compared to



12
     This value was revised by the government after the ICR mission from 5.05 to 6.9 FCFA billions.




                                                                12
an End of Project (EOP) target of 50 percent. This poor performance can be attributed to the
inexistence of a coherent training plan, main factor of ICAO compliance.

48.     Thirdly, due to the absence of a coherent training plan approved by ICAO, it is difficult
to ascertain the relevance and the effectiveness of the training program implemented under the
project.

49.    On a more positive note, overall Safety budget of ANAC, largely exceeded target value of
FCFA 1.40 billion. Indeed, the current budget is FCFA 2.98 billion (213 percent) compared to a
baseline value of FCFA 1.20 billion.

50.     Benin’s SAR center was established and made operational under the project. This
entailed the purchase of office and computer equipment, technical documents such as Search and
Rescue maps, and telecommunication equipment. This achievement and the significant increase
in safety budget however, fell short in complementing the Benin’s component of the project to
reach its target objectives.

3.2.2 Improve CAAs compliance with ICAO security standards, and enhance main
international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s security standards.

(a) Senegal
The Senegal component has been rated Satisfactory for the following reasons.

51.     First, the overall ICAO security compliance rate of Senegal CAA has met EOP target of
80 percent. It has significantly improved from 28 percent in 2009 to 81.6 percent by EOP. The
National Airport security plan which has been approved by ICAO is being implemented. It
currently serves as a basis for the certification of national security inspectors.

52.     Secondly, the security standard of Senegal’s main international airport (LSS) has
improved with the help of the project with regard to ICAO standards. The risk of unauthorized
entry in restricted areas of the airport has been minimized through the enhancement of the access
control system of the airport, and the installation of a video-surveillance equipment to monitor
activity in the vicinity of LSS’s perimeter.

53.     Thirdly, screening of passengers, their cabin luggage, checked-in luggage and cargo has
been enhanced thanks to the use of state of the art X-ray equipment acquired under the project.
Indeed, less than 2 percent of embarking passengers are in possession of illegal objects (as per
ICAO’s definition) compared to 4 percent in 2009. Such improved security screening at LSS
international airport is equally attributable to the extensive training program provided by the
project to airport security personnel, including police forces, HAALSS, and ADS staff. All of
them have passed the competency requirements for their respective duties.

54.     Fourthly the majority of airport security staff (85 percent) has now more than three or
more years of experience. Most importantly, all of Senegal’s ICAO certified security inspectors
have received training within the last 3 years in view of maintaining and improving their
expertise.



                                               13
55.     Finally, the share of the budget of the civil aviation authority earmarked for airport
security stands at FCFA 3.4 billion compared to an EOP target of FCFA 3.3 billion and a
baseline of FCFA 2.0 billion. This will ensure that ANACIM has the resources to maintain and
renew security equipment acquired under the project.

(b) Benin
The Benin component has been rated Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons.

56.     First, the ICAO security compliance rate stands at 32 percent which corresponds to the
2008 baseline level. In fact, the latest ICAO security audit conducted in October 2011 uncovered
several weaknesses mainly in the areas of: (a) personnel qualification and training; (b) issuance
of certifications; (c) quality control; and (d) resolution of security problems. The Corrective
Action plan of the 2011 security audit has been implemented by ANAC. Nonetheless, the
compliance rate has remained at 32 percent against a target of 70 percent, pending confirmation
of actual value from an independent ICAO audit to be carried out by the government of Benin
after project closure.

57.    Security oversight capacity has been reinforced thanks to the project. ANAC now has 14
ICAO certified security instructors, out of which 4 are specialized in imagery, 5 are national
inspectors, 3 are Aviation Security (AVSEC) auditors, and 2 are AVSEC Professional managers.
Furthermore, 65 percent of ICAO certified inspectors have been trained within the last 3 years
compared to 20 percent in 2009.

58.    As in Senegal, security screening at Cotonou Airport has remarkably improved thanks to
the project financed equipment and training: It is estimated that less than 0.74 percent of
embarking passengers are in possession of illegal objects compared to 2.6 percent in 2009.

59.    Finally, Benin’s National Airport security plan was approved by ICAO and the share of
budget of the civil aviation authority earmarked for security largely exceeds end of project target;
FCFA 1.89 billion (about 500 percent) as against a target of FCFA 0.378 billion.

3.3 Efficiency

60.     The project contributed to achieving efficiency gains in the following areas: (a) efficiency
improvements in the legal and regulatory frameworks of Senegal civil aviation seen in a modern
civil aviation code. Even though still in the process of being approved by the government, it has
helped in inspiring the design of ongoing and future aviation projects; (b) improved and updated
civil aviation technical regulations for Senegal and Benin; (c) for Senegal, optimized distribution
of airport fees between ANACIM, HAALSS, and ADS to finance key airport regulatory functions,
and airport safety and security; and (d) improved efficiency of airport security monitoring
operations in Dakar and Cotonou using state of the art equipment financed by the project.




                                                14
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
The rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

61.     Although safety compliance rates are significantly below EOP targets, both countries
have committed significant effort in assuming their safety oversight responsibilities as member
states of ICAO and signatories of international conventions. In both countries, the regulatory
framework is in place and there is an independent agency with increasing resources and capacity
to ensure compliance with most of ICAO’s regulations. Furthermore, the basic elements of SAR
services are in place in both Senegal and Benin.

62.     In terms of aviation security, both countries have established and are implementing
credible security programs. It appears that all preventive measures are in place in both countries,
in terms of airport security compliance.

63.     The outcome indicators for the project as outlined in the approved results framework put
more weight to ICAO audits recommendations. Those audits were reported as being rather
volatile during implementation and could not fully capture the overall positive developments that,
undoubtedly took place as a result of the project. The capacity building efforts in the public
sector, and the strengthening of civil administration oversight in the two countries which have
been greatly improved as outlined above, had very little influence on the overall outcome rating.

64.     The overall Moderately Unsatisfactory rating was largely influenced by the below EOP
targets for both Senegal and Benin with regard to safety compliance rates, which were critical in
attaining PDO. For Benin the safety compliance of aviation safety staff and overall security
compliance remained static, while for Senegal, the non-approval before project closure of the
Civil Aviation Code was a major setback.

65.     Compliance rates provided above are the latest results of audits conducted on the basis of
ICAO methodology either by ICAO or by independent external auditors. However, these
compliance rates tend to improve rapidly as authorities implement the corrective action plans
recommended by the audits. Unfortunately, even though the prospects of significant
improvement in compliance rates are encouraging, the real impact may only be noticed after
project completion.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

66.     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The project had no
specific poverty, gender or social development related objectives.

67.     Institutional Change/Strengthening. The project implementation period saw important
changes in aviation policies on safety and security for both countries. The counterparts’ and
other stakeholders’ views towards aviation safety and security also evolved as a result of the
experience accumulated during the implementation of the project. The project was in fact a pilot
and learning experience.




                                                15
68.    The following activities were undertaken to develop the institutional capacity of both
countries:

   •   Senegal. (a) staff capacity building; (b) modernization of aviation communication and
       inspection capacity; (c) review of the aviation institutional framework and creation of an
       aviation accident research center; and (d) the provision of state of the art equipment for
       the aeronautic medical, and Search and Rescue centers.

   •   Benin. (a) staff capacity building; (b) improved aviation communication and inspection
       capacity; (c) review of the aviation institutional framework; and (d) the provision of the
       necessary equipment for the equipped GPS cartographic center which helped in the
       update of the outdated 1950 maps and which is among the best in the sub region.

69.     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative). A specific
unintended outcome identified as resulting from project implementation include the newly
established aeronautical medical center in Senegal (cf. paragraph 42). It will henceforth bring
about cost savings for sub-regional airline companies and military aviation, since they will be
able to receive medical examination services closer to their bases. Furthermore, the center will
equally benefit the local neighborhood habitants who will be able to use the facility on certain
days.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

70. This is a core ICR which does not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
The rating is Substantial for the following reasons:

71.     The risks identified during project preparation were generally appropriate. The overall
project risk was rated “Substantial? and was analyzed in terms of failure to achieve critical
assumptions to project indicators. The analysis appears appropriate for most of the assumptions
made. However, two risks could have been analyzed differently. The analysis was probably too
optimistic to consider the risk related to the implementation capacity of Benin’s CAA as modest.
The lack of proactivity by the PIU in addressing procurement delays and the country’s structural
procurement issues which resulted in procurement delays attest to this. Secondly, the rating
related to political interference and governance was Substantial for Senegal as the elements that
posed the highest risk to its development outcomes were mostly linked to political-economy. The
late effectiveness of the project, the decision of the Government relative to the acquisition of the
video surveillance equipment and the delays in the approval of the civil aviation code and other
decrees confirm this. In the meantime, the overall institutional capacity-building which occurred
during project implementation for both countries and the new government for Senegal are likely
to reduce the impact of these risks on the overall sustainability of investments.

72.    In both Senegal and Benin, the extensive training program for civil aviation staff in
Safety and Security yielded positive results and has drastically improved the compliance rate
with respect to ICAO standards in terms of percentage of staff trained (as detailed above in


                                                16
paragraphs 40, 54 and 57). There is a risk that this momentum generated in building staff
capacity may not be sustained after project closing even though civil aviation authorities in both
countries have registered significant increases of their financial resources dedicated to Safety and
Security.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
The rating is Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons:

73.     The project design was based on the strategic assumption that lessons learnt from Phase I
APL covering Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Guinea, Mali and Nigeria, would be fully integrated to
optimize project outcomes. The project was identified and designed closely with government and
major stakeholders. It was well-designed, with in-depth analysis of lessons learned from previous
similar operations, and with a well-designed M&E framework. The project did not have a QER
but was carefully peer-reviewed by senior technical staff. Preparation was fast, as it took less
than one year to complete preparation.

74.     However, project design and preparation could have benefited from: (a) a more realistic
assessment of the cost of various activities, which would have helped in mitigating the
overestimation of activities, observed at mid-term; and (b) a more realistic consideration of the
complexity of the project and the time that it takes to put in place policy/legislative reforms vis-
à-vis the duration of a regular Bank project, which may have influenced project duration or
implementation phasing since this was an APL. These risks which were somehow
underestimated ultimately had a direct impact on the achievement and sustainability of
development objectives. Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is therefore rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
The rating is Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons:

75.      Project supervision was more than adequate, with regular video conferences between site
visit missions. Supervision missions were always followed by detailed and timely aide-memoires
and ISRs which were effective instruments for providing candid findings. They were often
extensive and provided highlights on key issues and prompt information to the client and Bank
management. However, some KPIs ratings before project closure were overly optimistic, and this
was rightly justified by the limited window of opportunities to have ICAO audits to confirm the
compliance rates derived by self-evaluation. The decision to transfer TTL to country-based staff
in 2009 helped improved supervision frequency and enhanced pro-activity in identifying
implementation threats. There was a high level commitment by Bank staff to resolving project
implementation issues and clear communication from Bank management to the client on critical
issues identified.




                                                17
76.     The actions taken by the Bank to resolve implementation bottlenecks were adequate and
proactive as well as its efforts to strengthen project Monitoring and Evaluation framework, even
though sometimes with much resistance from government agencies. Among the actions taken by
the Bank to resolve issues that arose during project implementation was the organization in
March 2010, in Ouagadougou, of an experience sharing/dissemination meeting for all
francophone Phase I and II PIU staff. This collaborative process launched and supported by
Bank team led to a real knowledge sharing between CAAs and PIUs. The Bank’s performance is
therefore rated as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.     The factors taken into consideration in rating the Bank’s overall performance include the
quality at entry and supervision as elaborated above.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
The Rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

   •   Senegal. The government performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. It was
       negatively impacted by its decision to suspend procurement of the video surveillance
       equipment for several months and delays in the approval of the civil aviation code and
       other decrees. Such issues were beyond the control of the PIU. Furthermore, the steering
       committee of the project did not provide enough support to the project at critical times, in
       particular regarding the video surveillance equipment and the approval process for the
       civil aviation code and the Accident Investigation Unit.

   •   Benin. The performance of the government was Moderately Unsatisfactory mainly
       because of the country’s structural procurement issues which resulted in procurement
       delays sometimes as long as 10 months for some activities and delays in the approval of
       the revised civil aviation code.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
The rating is Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons:

   •   Senegal. The performance of the PIU was Satisfactory. Initial difficulties in terms of
       project effectiveness and procurement were rapidly resolved and implementation rate
       improved. Financial management was Satisfactory throughout implementation and all
       audits reports were unqualified.

   •   Benin. The performance of the PIU was Moderately Satisfactory mainly due to the slow
       pace of project implementation and lack of proactivity in addressing procurement delays.




                                               18
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78.     Based on the combination of the two ratings above, overall Borrower performance is
rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1 Project Preparation and Design

79.       Lessons learned in relation to project preparation and design are the following:

      •   The justification of the overall outcome rating for the project put more weight to ICAO
          audits recommendations. They were reported as being rather volatile during
          implementation and could not fully capture the overall positive developments that
          undoubtedly took place as a result of the project. Incorporating the experiences and
          lessons learned from the design and implementation of similar projects is critical to avoid
          similar design pitfalls;

      •   The effectiveness of this project was delayed significantly for Senegal due to the
          multiplicity of effectiveness conditions. There should therefore be a consideration for the
          elimination of effectiveness conditions to avoid delays in effectiveness by making sure
          that all conditions are met prior to negotiations;

      •   The performance of one country during implementation had a great impact on the overall
          performance of the project. Hence, there is need to put in place a more formalized
          mechanism to share implementation experiences between countries involved in the same
          APL series for future design considerations;

      •   There was lack of a more realistic consideration of the complexity of the project and the
          time needed to put in place regional projects with policy/legislative reforms vis-à-vis
          regular single country Bank projects, in the design stage of this project. Hence, there is
          need to strike the right balance regarding the time needed to put in place
          policy/legislative reforms often politically influenced vis-a-vis the duration of
          implementing a regular Bank project;

      •   There was lack of a realistic assessment of the initial cost of various activities which
          resulted in overestimation of these activities. Similar future projects should avoid any
          complex and over design of activities. Aviation pilot projects of this nature are subject to
          change and require constant adjustments during implementation, as the parameters
          needed for success are usually not exactly known at project start;

      •   There is a need to engage and receive strong support from Country Management Units to
          ensure stronger ownership by the countries involved and to resolve policy related issues
          as this was found helpful in this project; and



                                                  19
   •   project design should include an agreed exit strategy with an action plan which defines
       clear responsibilities during all stages of implementation to ensure that each agency
       concerned has a good grasp of its role and is committed to its implementation. This will
       help give visibility of the overall vision to all stakeholders.

6.2 Project Implementation

80.      Institutional development and capacity building are critical factors to ensure
sustainability during and after project. Experience from this project suggests that best results are
achieved through long-term relationships where new ideas can be introduced indirectly and
gradually, in pursuit of a shared vision and with a clear road map. It is also critical to support
institutional building by encouraging synergy among implementing agencies especially across
countries for regional projects, while making sure that all initiatives are demand-driven and
developed in a participatory manner to enhance achievement of the PDO and in accordance to
Bank procedures. Following this approach could have helped to limit some of the shortfalls
observed in the course of implementation.

81.     The project did well to build counterpart capacity in both countries especially through
staff training. However, a systematic use of simplified guides and procedural manuals would
have helped achieve better quality insurance and greater fiduciary compliance; especially when
dealing with a client with limited prior exposure to Bank procedures/guidelines.

82.     A well laid out structure for institutional collaboration in a well-coordinated manner for
all project activities is fundamental for effective project implementation, especially where there
are multiple stakeholders. This was a major setback for this project during implementation.

83.     There is need for early identification of qualified firms in the market, relative to required
specialized and/or critical services and engage their interest. The same can be done for the
identification of qualified individuals so that required consultant competence is sought as a
contingency measure, in order to avoid or limit the danger of not getting very competent and
qualified consultants to respond to requests and unjustified single source contracts which was the
case for the Benin component of this project.

6.3 Project Supervision

84.    Continuous and quality supervision missions by the Bank team, with increasing use of
country-based staff was found to be an important factor. This was essential to ensure that steady
progress and effective supervision were maintained to readily address specific needs during
implementation in a timely manner.

85.      The need for a clear articulation for the measurement of outcome indicators taking into
consideration regional and international institutional priorities was particularly important for this
project which covered more than one country. With its diverse activities of both
institutional/capacity building and policy reform nature, this consideration would have helped
facilitate the improvement of monitoring by the implementing agencies in line with international
standards. Hence avoiding unambiguous evaluation of performance at every stage, and



                                                 20
contributing to the identification of timely corrective actions. The limited window of opportunity
to have an ICAO audit to confirm the compliance rates to international standards led to self-
evaluation by PIUs of KPIs. Throughout project implementation these self-evaluated KPIs were
used to evaluate progress, making real evaluation difficult. The consequence of this is that, at
project closing, most self-evaluated indicators were not in conformity to ICAO audit values.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

86.     Participating countries have analyzed the draft ICR and accepted its key elements,
including main conclusions, ratings and recommendations. They have also proposed some
corrections and clarifications, which have been integrated into this final version of the document.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                                21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                       millions)

Aviation safety improvements            7.60                5.20               68
Aviation security improvements          6.20                3.80               61
Management and governance
oversight of the national               4.20                3.40               81
component of the program
              Total Baseline Cost      18.00               12.40               69
Physical Contingencies                  -                   -                   -
Price Contingencies                     -                   -                   -
              Total Project Costs      18.00               12.40               69

(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)   millions)
Borrower                                            2.00        2.00        100
International Development
                                                    7.00           5.10             73
Association (IDA)
IDA Grant                                           9.00           5.30             59




                                          22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                                              Table 2.1: Indicators at Appraisal
  Project Development Objective: The Project Development Objectives are as follows: (a) improve national Civil Aviation
  Authorities’ (CAAs’) compliance with International Civil Aviation Organization’s (ICAO’s) safety standards, (b) increase
  national CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s security standards, and (c) enhance main international airports’ compliance with
  ICAO’s security standards.
     Main Project Output                Activities             Country      Target     Actual         Outcome/Comments
           Indicators
  Key Performance Indicator 1: Improve CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s safety standards.
                               •Medical equipment for
                               ANACS’ medical center;
                               •Equipment and training for                                       Based on internal Audit
                               “Search and Rescue?                                               following the guidelines for
                               activities;                                                       improvement of the project
                               •Setting-up of an                                                 given by the ICAO on its last
                               independent office for                                            visit. Implementation of the
                                                               Senegal       85%       66.5%
  Compliance rate with ICAO    aircraft incidents and                                            corrective action plan.
  aggregate safety standards   accidents investigation;
  based on ICAO’s audits,
  with all actions in their    •Purchase of technical                                            Partially Achieved
  Corrective Action Plan       library equipment (e.g.
  completed                    relevant ICAO’s manuals,
                               directives, online library,
                               training materials, etc.);

                               •Equipment and training for
                               “Search and Rescue?
                               activities;                      Benin       >60%        43%      Achieved.
                               •Replacement of basic
                               communication and


                                                              23
                             inspections equipment (e.g.
                             very high frequency (VHF)
                             radios, telephone network
                             within the airport area, IT
                             network at headquarters,
                             etc.)
                             •Purchase of technical
                             library equipment (e.g.,
                             relevant ICAO’s manuals,
                             directives, online library,
                             training materials, etc.);

                             •   Training of civil aviation
                                 staff in the area of civil
                                 aviation safety oversight;
                             •Dissemination and                                       Based on an independent
                             translation (in English) of       Senegal   85%    70%   audit.
                             updated regulations.                                     Not Achieved.
                             •   Personnel training based
Percentage of technical           on a prior needs
personnel in compliance           assessment study.
with ICAO’s safety
standards; and Total CAA’s   • Training of civil aviation
budget amount.                   staff in the area of civil
                                 aviation safety oversight;

                             • Dissemination and
                                 translation (in English) of    Benin    >50%   11%   Not achieved.
                                 updated regulations; and
                                 Personnel training based
                                 on a prior needs
                                 assessment study.



                                                               24
Key Performance Indicator 2: Improve CAA’s compliance with ICAO’s security standards.
                                •Installation of an access
                                control system at the airport;
                                •Acquisition of training         Senegal   >70%    816 %   Achieved
                                equipment, communication
                                equipment, and patrol
                                vehicles;
Compliance rate with            •Improvement of airport
ICAO’s aggregate security       security through the
standards based on ICAO’s       acquisition of passengers
audit, with all                 and cargo x-ray machines as
recommendations                 well as an explosive material
addressed;                      tracer;
                                                                  Benin    70%     32%     Not Achieved
                                •Acquisition of airport
                                personnel identification
                                equipment, security
                                cameras, communications
                                systems, and inspection
                                equipment;
                                Training of airport security
                                                                 Senegal   >80%    100%    Achieved,
                                personnel;
Percentage of CAA’s             •Training of civil aviation
ICAO’s certified security       staff in the area of civil
inspectors trained during the   aviation security;                Benin    >60%    65%     Achieved
last three years;
                                •Training of airport security
                                personnel.

Level of CAA’s budget                                            Senegal    3.3    3.40    Achieved
dedicated to security                                             Benin    0.378   1.89    Achieved



                                                                 25
                         •Updating of technical
                         regulation;
National   Security Plan •Review of the institutional       Senegal                           Yes
compliance with ICAO’s framework and fees
standards.               allocation among civil
                         aviation entities.
                                                            Benin                           Yes
Key Performance Indicator 3: Enhance main international airports’ compliance with ICAO’s security standards.
Percentage of airport                                       Senegal      >80%       85%       Achieved
security personnel with
three or more years of                                                                        Achieved with a percentage
                                                             Benin       >50%       57%
experience;                                                                                   of 114 percent;

                                                            Senegal       <3                  3
Number of serious problems
                                                                                  Not         Simulation exercise for Benin
recorded during annual
                                                                                  available   to determine this value was not
airport crisis exercises                                     Benin        <3                  carried out by the time of this
                                                                                              report
Percentage of embarking                                     Senegal      <2%        00%       Achieved
passengers stopped in
possession of illegal objects,
as defined by the ICAO, by                                   Benin       <2%        0.74%     Achieved
airlines security personnel
or the police.




                                                           26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)

Not Applicable




                                           27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Hugues Agossou             Senior Auditor                    IADVP  Auditor
Itchi Gnon Ayindo          Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW  Procurement
Nina Chee                  Senior Environmental Specialist   MIGEP  Environmentalist
Renee M. Desclaux          Senior Finance Officer            CTRLD  Finance
Bourama Diaite             Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW  Procurement
Anta Tall Diallo           Program Assistant                 AFCF1  Assistant
Sidy Diop                  Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW  Procurement
                           Sr. Financial Management                 Financial
Saidou Diop                                                  AFTMW
                           Specialist                               Management
Ibou Diouf                 Senior Transport. Specialist.     AFTTR TTL
                           Senior Financial Management              Financial
Alain Hinkati                                                AFTMW
                           Specialist                               Management
Michel J-L. Iches          Senior Transport. Specialist.     TWITR Aviation
Sariette Jene M. C. Jippe  Temporary                         MNSPR Assistant
Alain L. Labeau            Consultant                         SASFP Transport
                           Senior Social Development
Antoine V. Lema                                              AFTCS Social Scientist
                           Specialist
Jean-Francois Marteau      Senior Transport. Specialist.     ECSTR   Transport
Pepita Hortense C. Olympio Program Assistant                 AFMBJ   Assistant
Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka    Senior Transport. Specialist.     AFTTR   Transport
Charles E. Schlumberger    Lead Air Transport Specialist     TWITR   Aviation
Rafael Treibich            Temporary                         AFTTR   Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Itchi Gnon Ayindo          Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW Procurement
Sidy Diop                  Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW Procurement
Roukaya El Houda           Temporary                         AFTTR Analyst
Papa Mamadou Fall          Transport Specialist              AFTTR Co-TTL
                           Senior Financial Management             Financial
Maimouna Mbow Fam                                            AFTMW
                           Specialist                              Management
                           Senior Financial Management             Financial
Alain Hinkati                                                AFTMW
                           Specialist                              Management
Sariette Jene M. C. Jippe  Temporary                         MNSPR Assistant
Osval Rocha Andrade                                                Financial
                           Financial Management Specialist   AFTMW
Romao                                                              Management
Peter Ngwa Taniform        Senior Transport. Specialist.     AFTTR ICR author




                                           28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                    7.93                      50.33
  FY09                                   21.36                     113.09
                          Total:         29.29                     163.42
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                    0.56                      10.60
  FY09                                    6.56                      22.23
  FY10                                   11.94                      72.96
  FY11                                   12.79                      74.35
  FY12                                   10.37                      49.63
  FY13                                    8.22                      55.96
                          Total:         50.44                     285.73




                                       29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




                                      30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                        31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

SENEGAL:

1. Introduction

1.     On April 15, 2009 the Republic of Senegal and IDA signed a Financing Agreement
(4538-SN) in the amount of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 4,700,000 representing
approximately US$7,000,000 to assist in the financing of the West and Central Africa Air
Transport Safety and Security Project (WCAATSSP). The Agreement entered into effect on
December 8, 2009. Under a Subsidiary Agreement signed on September 14, 2009 the
Government of Senegal made the proceeds of the IDA financing available to the Civil Aviation
Authority of Senegal (ANACS), which became the Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority of
Senegal (ANACIM) in July 2011, as the project implementing agency. The project was closed on
December 31, 2012.

2. Background

2.    At the time of project preparation, aviation services in Africa and particularly in West
and Central Africa (WCA) were inefficient, expensive and hardly reliable.

3.      Air transport safety in WCA was suffering from significant weaknesses due to unsuitable
national legal framework that was neither harmonized nor in conformity with international
regulatory standards, and a severe shortage of qualified investigation personnel. This was also
the case in terms of security considering that most international airports did not have the
appropriate systems and procedures in place to control access to tarmacs and terminal buildings.
This situation resulted in the rising costs of services. It was also jeopardizing the security of the
air transportation network in the WCA sub-region and could hence aggravate the isolation of the
main commercial traffic flow.

4.      The project was designed to supplement the four (4) sub-regional projects of the
Cooperative Development of Operational Safety and Continuing Airworthiness Program
(COSCAP) signed between the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and WCA
countries between 2003 and 2004, which lacked the resources to finance country level activities
in the vital area of air safety and airport security.

5.      In addition to non-compliances with international safety and security standards identified
during audits conducted by the ICAO, the civil aviation industry in Senegal was faced with: (i) a
lack of transparency in the collection, management and utilization of security fees; (ii) the
existence of a plethora of instruments governing the financing of sector agencies resulting in a
lack of clarity between aeronautical charges levied and services provided in this regard; and (iii)
a lack of autonomy, reported numerous times by the ICAO, of the agency in charge of air traffic
incidents and accidents.




                                                 32
3. Project objectives

6.     The development objectives of the project were to: (i) increase the compliance rate of the
Civil Aviation Authority of Senegal (CAA) with the safety standards of the (ICAO); (ii) increase
the compliance rate of the CAA with the security standards of the ICAO; and (iii) increase the
compliance rate of major airports with the security standards of the ICAO.

4. Amendments to the objectives

7.     The development objectives were not amended during project implementation.

5. Project components and activities

The project consisted of: (i) an air transport safety component aimed at increasing the
compliance rate of the Civil Aviation Authority of Senegal with ICAO safety standards; (ii) an
aviation security component aimed at increasing the compliance rate of the Civil Aviation
Authority of Senegal with ICAO safety standards; and (iii) a project management component
aimed at strengthening the capacities of the ANACS and the Program Coordination Unit (Unite
de Coordination du Projet, UCP). Initial activities of the project included:

8.      Air transport safety component. (i) training of personnel on air transport safety; (ii)
updating of technical regulations governing safety; (iii) translation into English of the new Civil
Aviation Code and its attendant regulations; (iv) acquisition of aviation medicine equipment; (v)
acquisition of equipment for the Accident Investigation Unit; (vi) acquisition of office furniture,
computer and communications equipment for the Coordination and Rescue Center; (vii)
organization of a Search and Rescue exercise; (viii) acquisition of vehicles equipped with
communication materials for investigation purposes; and (ix) a study for the establishment of the
“Accident Investigation Unit?.

9.     Aviation security component. (i) security training for personnel; (ii) drafting of
technical regulations on security; (iii) acquisition of learning materials and inspection equipment
(inspection/screening kits and standardized teaching kits); (iv) acquisition of vehicles equipped
with communication materials for investigation purposes; (v) organization of security crisis
management exercises; (vi) acquisition of Very High Frequency and Ultra High Frequency
communication equipment; (vii) acquisition of a closed circuit television system.

10.     Project management component. (i) project coordination, financing of operating costs,
external audit and technical assistance for procurement; (ii) acquisition of office equipment; (iii)
review of the institutional framework for the distribution of fees; (iv) updating and editing of the
new Civil Aviation Code and its attendant regulations and implementation of IEC activities; and
(v) technical assistance for the setting up of a slot management system.

11.   The initial components were not amended during project implementation. Changes were
not made to activities under the air transport safety component. For the aviation security
component, the acquisition of the following additional equipment was decided during the mid-




                                                33
term review of the project to enhance control systems: (i) explosives trace detectors; (ii) X-ray
materials; and (iii) night-vision goggles.

12.     The main reason for the acquisition of this additional equipment was to consolidate
actions undertaken to increase compliance rates with ICAO security standards. In fact, the export
of freighted goods to the United States from the Leopold Sedar Senghor Airport (LSS) was
suspended in May 2011 due to the lack of explosives detection equipment in the freight control
unit. Existing X-ray equipment for the screening of passengers had begun to be subjected to
repeated breakdowns and had to be replaced urgently. The use of night-vision goggles had
become necessary to enhance the effectiveness of inspection patrols in the airport vicinity.

13.     Under the project management component, the study of a strategic orientation plan for
the General Directorate of Air Transport and Aeronautical Infrastructure (Direction Générale des
Transports Aériens et des Infrastructures Aéronautiques, DGTAIA) was included as a
complementary activity to aid the Ministry in charge of civil aviation, and strengthen its capacity
in sector management.

6. Assessment of objectives

14.     The initial objectives were clear and concise. In view of the prevailing situation at the
time of project identification and preparation, the objectives were realistic and linked to issues
that civil aviation authorities in Senegal had to address without delay for greater compliance with
international standards. Moreover, activities were in line with the urgent needs identified in the
sector and their implementation could support the attainment of objectives targeted.

7. Achievement of project objectives and results

15.     Achievement of Project Objectives rated Moderately Satisfactory. The objectives of
the project, which were to assist civil aviation authorities in Senegal and the LSS international
airport increase their compliance rates with the ICAO safety and security standards, were
partially achieved. With regard to security standards, performance indicator levels targeted were
reached by the end of the project. (81 per cent compliance with the ICAO security standards,
while the objective was 80 per cent; 100 per cent of technical security personnel complied with
the ICAO security standards, while the objective was 80 per cent; 85 per cent of security
personnel had at least 3 years of experience in airport security, while the objective was 80 per
cent; the total amount of resources allocated to security activities by all relevant institutions
reached (Franc of the African Financial Community, Franc de la communauté Financière
Africaine, FCFA) 3.4 billion, while the objective was FCFA 3.3 billion. However, targets
relating to safety were not reached in particular for: (i) overall compliance with the ICAO safety
standards (66.5 percent reached whereas the objective was 80 per cent); (ii) compliance of safety
personnel with the ICAO safety standards (70 per cent reached whereas the objective was 80
percent) 13.


13
   Some of these values are based on self-evaluation by the client and may not be consistent with other values in the main text of
this ICR.




                                                                34
16.     All initial activities and those included during the mid-term review were implemented
with the exception of: (i) the translation into English of the revised Civil Aviation Code and
technical regulations; (ii) IEC activities on the new Civil Aviation Code; (iii) the slot
management system; (iv) the acquisition of specialized technical equipment for the Accident
Investigation Unit; and (v) technical assistance for the setting up of a slot management system.
The completion rate of activities is higher than 82 percent (19 activities implemented out of 23
planned).

17.     Key project outcomes include: (i) a significant strengthening of technical capacities of
aviation safety and security personnel; (ii) sound institutional reforms (establishment of an
Accident Investigation Unit (Bureau Enquêtes Accidents, BEA) reinforcement of the Search and
Rescue Center (Centre de Recherche et de Sauvetage, SAR), establishment of a medical center
for aviation personnel); (iii) updated regulations and greater compliance with the ICAO
standards (revision of the Civil Aviation Code, the National Civil Aviation Security Plan
(Programme National de Sûreté de l’Aviation Civile du Sénégal, PNSAC)), as well as safety and
security rules); (iv) a more transparent management of aeronautical charges; (v) up-to-date
technical equipment and tools; and (vi) enhanced effectiveness in security management
(organization of two civil aviation security crisis management exercises).

18.    Results achieved enabled corrective actions to be taken regarding major shortcomings in
the supervision of civil aviation safety and security that were observed during project preparation.

8. Key factors that affected project implementation

19.     The factors beyond the control of the Government and the Implementing Agency were:
(i) Retendering for the procurement of highly specialized technical equipment due to the lack of
a sufficient number of bidders with the required qualifications; (ii) insufficient exchange of
experience between the WCAATSSP national components; and (iii) difficulties to have the
ICAO and Economic Community for West and Central Africa (ECOWAS) perform safety and
security audits at the desired period.

20.    Factors generally within the control of the Government were: (i) a delay of more than 4
months for the project to enter into effect; (ii) a certain number of activities were called into
question particularly the installation of a closed circuit television system at the LSS airport which
could only be done at the end of the project subsequent to a change of government; and (iii)
lengthy procedures for the approval of legislative and regulatory instruments drafted within the
framework of this project (revised Civil Aviation Code, decree on the establishment of the BEA,
decree on the determination and distribution of aeronautical charges, decree on the approval of
PNSAC and security rules).

21.     Factors within the control of civil aviation authorities were: (i) a lengthy process for the
validation of study reports; and (ii) significant delays in the setting up of the Medical Center for
aviation personnel (Centre d’Expertise Médicale du Personnel Aéronautique, CEMPA) and in
the normal operation of the Search and Rescue Center.




                                                 35
9. Sustainability of results

22.     Current conditions for the sustainability of project results are Moderately Satisfactory.
The following are positive signals for the sustainability of results: (i) the capacities of technical
staff of civil aviation authorities (ANACIM; High Authority of the Léopold Sédar Senghor
Airport, Haute Autorité de l’Aéroport Léopold Sédar Senghor HAALSS; Senegal Airport,
Aéroport du Senegal ADS) that were strengthened under the project have so far been maintained;
(ii) by project close-out on December 31, 2012 the amount of resources allocated to security had
exceeded the target value (FCFA 3.3 billion) set for this performance indicator; (iii) the total
budget of the ANACIM for 2012 is higher than the target value set for the end of the project
(FCFA 6.9 14 billion compared to FCFA 4.76 billion).

23.     However: (i) the availability of adequate financial resources to continue staff capacity-
building and the modernization of equipment initiated by the project is not yet fully guaranteed;
(ii) the infrastructure maintenance system, particularly the airport enclosure walls, is still
ineffective; and (iii) there are delays in the modernization of out-dated equipment (EDS devices,
scanners at the freight inspection/screening unit and at customs for baggage check).

10. World Bank performance

24.    Performance was Satisfactory for project identification and preparation as well as for
supervision and implementation. The Bank strongly backed actions to identify and prepare
national activities which led to the WCAATSSP. It conducted supervision missions on a regular
basis punctuated by visits to airport facilities. It was sensitive to issues arising during project
implementation and collaborated positively to address these.

11. Government performance

25.   Government performance is Satisfactory for both project identification and preparation
and Moderately Unsatisfactory for implementation.

26.     The Government and all agencies in the civil aviation sector endorsed the idea of the
project and contributed positively to its rapid preparation. The Government was however behind
schedule in satisfying the conditions of effectiveness. Furthermore, during project
implementation, the Government often challenged certain project activities and lacked efficiency
in the approval of legislative and regulatory instruments.

12. Performance of civil aviation agencies

27.     The overall performance of the ANACIM and the project coordination unit is Moderately
Satisfactory. It is Satisfactory for financial management and procurement and Moderately
Satisfactory for the implementation of studies, which experienced significant delays. Mid-term
audit reports were not prepared.


14
     This value was revised by the government after the ICR mission from 5.05 to 6.9 FCFA billions.




                                                                36
28.      The performance of the ADS is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The latter did not sufficiently
involve itself in project implementation and in efforts to increase the airport’s compliance rate
with the ICAO safety and security standards, particularly the LSS airport enclosure walls.
Damages to these walls periodically contributed to lowering the safety and security levels of the
airport.

29.     The performance of the HAALSS is Satisfactory. End-of-project performance indicator
targets were reached both for overall compliance with the ICAO security standards and for the
training of personnel. Moreover, the HAALSS was strongly involved in project implementation
and took effective ownership of the various equipment and management tools made available.

13. Performance of consulting firms, consultants and suppliers

30.    The performance of individual consultants, consulting firms and equipment and furniture
suppliers that were involved in the implementation of the project is globally Satisfactory.

14. Most significant positive lessons

31.     The establishment of a project coordination unit within the implementing agency with a
full-time coordinator in charge of monitoring the progress of and coordinating activities greatly
contributed to the project’s satisfactory results.

32.     The development, following each supervision mission, of an action plan integrated into
the aide-memoire and summarizing priority actions to be undertaken by all units concerned
before the next mission, was an excellent tool for monitoring project implementation.

15. Most significant negative lessons

33.     Equipment procured under the project could not be tested as much as necessary before
the expiry of the contractual warranty period because the locations where they should have been
installed were not rehabilitated sufficiently on time before delivery. This situation stems from the
fact that building renovation was not included among initial project activities and this did not
allow for proper coordination between the acquisition of equipment and the performance of
works.




                                                37
BENIN

1. Introduction

1.      Following the systemic audit of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) in
Benin in February and March 2007, the Republic of Benin benefited from the World Bank a
financial support under the Regional Program West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and
Security Program II (WCAATSSP), implemented through the International Development
Association (IDA) for the purpose of helping the recipient countries which have been the subject
of a security and civil aviation safety audit, to raise their level of compliance with ICAO
Standards. The signing of the grant agreement (H-440 BJ) was held on April 3, 2009.

2. Background

2.     At the beginning of the project in 2007-2008, air transport accounted for 40 percent of the
value of world trade, and played a significant role in the economic development of countries.

3.      In Africa, where the lack of roads, rail and port infrastructure would often limit the fast
and efficient movement of goods dedicated to high export value, the airline had both a potential
of growth and a role in the economic development of the continent. However, the reality does not
meet expectations and air services in West Africa and Central (WCA) continued to be ineffective,
expensive and unreliable.

4.      The main security issues that have been and are still being faced by the air transport
sector in WCA include the absence of a favorable legal framework and a significant lack of
qualified inspection staff.

5.     Moreover, even when a country managed to demonstrate its ability to comply with ICAO
standards, its ability to maintain compliance and retain qualified staff remained uncertain.
Therefore, the Bank, in coordination with regional institutions and other international donors, has
adopted a comprehensive approach to address all of these problems by bearing:
       a. the establishment of regional mechanisms for supervision of safety standards and
          security in member countries, and
       b. fund safety and national security programs to increase the capacity of the National
          Agency of Civil Aviation (ANAC) to comply with ICAO standards.

3. Project Objectives

6.      The main objective of this program is to create a secure and safe environment for air
transport in West Africa and Central, and enabling African airlines to have competitive access to
regional and global markets in the hope of supporting sustainable economic growth in the entire
region. The implementation of this program for Benin, includes the following:

       a. Improve compliance of the National Agency of Civil Aviation with the safety and
          security of the Organization of International Civil Aviation. This requires in particular



                                                38
           the strengthening of the administrative and financial management of the Agency,
           ensuring its independence and financial sustainability, and

       b. Increase the level of compliance of the main international airport with the safety
          standards of ICAO. This requires in particular, extensive training programs for
          personal safety and airport security

7.     Key project outcomes include (i) institutional reforms that have been implemented to
ensure administrative and financial autonomy of the National Agency of Civil Aviation; (ii) the
necessary infrastructure in the areas of safety and security and monitoring capabilities that have
been implemented; and (iii) appropriate funding mechanisms that have been developed and
adopted to support and supervision capacity in the areas of safety and security.

8.      These factors have resulted in indicators of the project as well as by legal agreements to
ensure long-term sustainability of the project

4. Project components and activities

9.     Through this IDA grant in an amount equivalent to US$9 million, the Government of
Benin (GoB) proposed to use the funds to address the funding of supplies, works and services to
be acquired under the project through the following components:

1) Strengthening the sector policy and monitoring capabilities of the security and civil aviation
safety of ANAC

   a. Strengthening of sectoral transport policy in the field of civil aviation and airport, through
      the provision of technical assistance services, and
   b. Strengthening the monitoring capacity of ANAC security and safety by: (i) the
      improvement of the technical library;(ii) improving the means to carry out the operations
      of search and rescue, and (iii) the conduct of training programs for its staff to deal with
      problems relating to the safety and security of flights.

2) Strengthening the standards of safety and security of Cotonou airport

   a. Acquisition and installation of security equipment (scanning, personal identification) and
      equipment search and rescue;
   b. Implementation of projects and training of personnel security and safety;
   c. Installation of systems of closed circuit television, and
   d. Acquisition of radio and communication equipment.

3) Coordination, management and supervision of the Project

   a. Funding for operating expenses and technical assistance of ANAC and the PIU to support
      the coordination, management and supervision of the Project, and
   b. Training of trustees and staff responsible for procurement.




                                                39
4) Cost and Financing

10.    The total cost estimated at US$9.00 million was used to finance:

                            Table 1: detail project cost allocation
               Component                                       US$ (in millions)
  1. Staff Training                                                  1.47
  2. ANAC Facilities                                                 0.79
  3. Aviation facilities                                             2.89
  4. Airport Security facilities                                     1.53
  5. Crisis Center Facilities                                        0.13
  6. Airport Infrastructure facilities                               0.75
  7. Consultants and other                                           0.93
  8. Program management (incl. in-kind                               0.58
     contribution of the client)
TOTAL                                                                9.00

Achievement of project objectives and results

11.     Achievement of Project Objectives rated Substantial. WCAASSTP-Benin primary
objective was to raise respectively 70 percent and 60 percent rate of compliance with ICAO
standards in safety and security aviation; and respectively 60 percent and 50 percent compliance
rate on the technical staff safety and security. Safety came to 70 percent (for standards) and 92
percent (for technical staff). Security came to 43 percent (for standards) and 11 percent (for
technical staff) against 60 percent and 50 percent expected.

1. Sustainability and risk

12.   The most important risk was that of the ability of implementation of program activities by
ANAC. It was considered Moderate because it had not yet managed a project of the World Bank.

13.    Another risk of the program was the limited ability of ANAC to enforce rigorously the
standards of safety and security by national operators such as airlines and airport operators

14.      An additional risk concerned the ability of the ANAC to recruit and maintain a technically
competent workforce to ensure the sustainability of the program. Although the autonomy of the
ANAC is guaranteed by law through Decree No. 2004-598 of 29 October 2004, the number and
proportion of non-qualified personnel within it are high. Indeed, the security audit conducted by
ICAO in Benin showed that the technical staff had been in conformity with the technical
standards of ICAO at more than one percent. And this had indicated serious concerns about its
ability to meet global standards of security and air safety.

15.     It took the Government's commitment to the World Bank to improve budgeting and
management autonomy of the ANAC during the implementation of the program through specific
objectives in terms of budget and training to reassure against this risk. Nevertheless, the



                                                40
experience of Phase I of the program and the lack of qualified personnel in the field of aviation
in WCA had suggested that the risk continues to be important for the component of Benin

16.    All these identified risk factors and mitigation are summarized in the following table

                                   Table 2: risk and rating
Risk                            Mitigation measures                Rating
Limited ability to implement    Specialists Recruitment            Moderate
                                (consultants) in financial
                                management and procurement
                                project to strengthen ANAC
                                staff
Limited capacity of the ANAC Creation of regional security         Moderate
to enforce safety standards and agencies and aviation safety,
safety aggressively by national public communication of the
operators                       results of the audit on the
                                safety of ICAO
Capacity ANAC to secure and Strengthening of ANAC                  Substantial
maintain a technical            Capacity through training
competent staff                 programs and budget targets

Governance                       Recruitment of External       Moderate
                                 fiduciary consultants
                                 within ANAC.
                                 Adoption of a governance plan
                                 for the component

17.    Based on the rankings presented, the overall risk of Benin component was therefore
assessed as Substantial.

2. Lessons learned

18.     The WCAATSSP has produced tangible results discussed in this report in terms of the
objective of security and safety of civil aviation. It reflected the interest and priorities of the
component of Benin including ANAC which adhered to accompany the subsequent processes.
The program was coordinated with other donors including France through the project ASACA of
CRASAC (SCTIP) to ensure consistency with the objectives and outcomes of expected AVSEC
training.

19.    The WCAATSSP particularly insisted on the capacity of ANAC, the recipient agency.
However, simultaneous submission for clearance of the project activities to the National Control
Department of Procurement and IDA negatively impacted performance since this contributed to
prolonged delays.

20.    Moreover, the strategic choices for the management of the program did not produce the
desired results. As such it would be advisable in the future, to no longer accommodate the


                                                41
Coordination Units of specific projects of its kind in public administrations, because the
objective of capacity building is often misunderstood by these administrations.

21.    Some activities were declared ineligible for IDA Grant, even though essential for the
improvement and achievement of security and safety of civil aviation in Benin. These activities
could not be further processed because of project Closure




                                              42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                         43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. West and Central Africa Air Transport Safety and Security Program: Program Appraisal
       Documents for Phase I & II;
   2. Financing & Development Credit Agreements, and Project Agreements;
   3. Harmonized Evaluation Criteria for ICRs and OED Evaluations;
   4. Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), “The economic and social benefits of Air
       Transport?, 2008;
   5. Mid-Term Review Report;
   6. Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR);
   7. Country Assistant Strategy for Both Countries
   8. Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper for Both Countries
   9. Aide Memoires;
   10. Various memos and communications listed in project files and WBDocs.




                                           44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 36145
0°                                             1°E                                                     2°E                                                        3°E                                                     4°E
                                                                                                                                                                                      To                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                     Dosso                  Sokoto

                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                 IG
                                                                                                                                                                   ER
                                                                                                                                                                        RI
                                                                                                                                                                                     NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                           VE
                                                                                                                                                                              R

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12°N
                                                                            BURKINA




                                                                                                                                 u
                                    BENIN
                                                                             FASO




                                                                                                                                  ro
                                                                                                                                                                                  Malanville




                                                                                                                               Mék
                                                                                    Pendjari

                                                                                                                                                  Alibori
                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                              ta                                      Kandi
                      To                                                                                  n
                    Dapaong                                                                           u




                                                                                                                                                                                     Sota
                                                                                                  o

                                                                                       ri
     11°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11°N


                                                                                    nja
                                                                                             M                                                 ALIBORI
                                                                                  Pa




                                                                                                           u
                                                                                                         ro
                                                                                                       ék
                                                                                                      M
                                                                      ra
                                                                  o    ATA K O R A
                                                              k
                                                         ta
                                                     A                                                                                                                                                                                        Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kainji
                                                     Natitingou
                                                                                                                                Bembéréké




                                                                                                                                                                   né
                                                                                                                                                               ssi
                                                                                                                                                            Ta
                                    Koum
                                        ong
                                           ou
10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10°N



                                                                                      Djougou
                                                                                                                    O                    BORGOU
                                                                                                                       ué
                                                                                                                          mé
                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kaiama
                                                                                                                                                       ra
                                                                                                                                                    pa




                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                 Ok




                                                 Kabou
                                                                           DONGA
                                                                                                                    Alpouro




                                                                                                                               Parakou




9°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9°N


                                        TOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                            0     20        40       60      80    100 Kilometers


                                                                                                                                                                                            0          20             40          60 Miles


      GHANA                                                                                                                                                       3°E                                                      1°E

                                                                                                      COLLINES
8°N                                                                                                                                                     8°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                            BENIN
                                                                                                          Savalou
                                                                                                                                                                         WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA
                                                                                                  Zou                Dassa-
                                                                                                                     Zoumé
                                                                                                                                                                        AIR TRANSPORT SECURITY AND
                                                                                                                                                                          SAFETY PROJECT P108583
                                                                                                                                 émé
                                                                                                                               Ou




                                                                                                                                   PLATEAU                                                      Phase 2 of P083751
                                                                                        Cou




                                                                                                       Z O U
                                                                                            ffo




                                                                                                                                                                                                  CADJEHOUN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
                                                                                               Abomey                   Cové
                                                                           COUFFO                              Bohicon                                                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

7°N                                                                                                                                            Pobé                        7°N                    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                                                          To
                                                         Notsé                              Aplahoué
                                                                                             Dogbo                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                       OUEME




     Lake                                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS
     Volta                                                                                                                                        Sakété
                                                                                     MONO                                                               To                                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                            Lokossa
                                                                                                          ATLANTIQUE                                  Ibadan
                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAILROADS
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                 PORTO
                                                                                            Mon




The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                 NOVO
                                                                                              o




shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank               To
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any           Lomé                                Ouidah Cotonou
                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                  BIGHT OF BENIN            BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                               Gulf of Guinea LITTORAL
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                       2°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY 2008
                18°W                                                                                    16°W                                                                                         14°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SENEGAL

                                                                                                                                                                                M A U R I TA N I A                                                                   WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA
                                                                                                                                                   Sénégal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AIR TRANSPORT SECURITY AND
                                                                                                                To                                             Podor
                                                                                                             Nouakchott
                                                                                                                                                                                Doue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SAFETY PROJECT P108583
                                                                                                            Rosso
                            SENEGAL
                                                                                                                                         Dagana
                                                                                                                                                             Ndiayène                                                                                                                   Phase 2 of P083751
                                                                                                                        Richard-Toll                                          Haïré Lao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEOPOLD SEDAR SENGHOR
                                                                                                                    Lac de
                                                                                                                    Guier                         SAINT-                                                                                    To                                                INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kaedi
                                                                                                                                                  LOUIS                                                                                    Mbout
                                                                                         Saint-Louis                                                                                                                                                                                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
           16°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Thilogne                                                                    REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                         Mpal                                                                 Lagbar
                                                                                                                          al




                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                               lée
                                                                                                                                   d   u Fe                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                          Léona                                                            rlo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Matam
                                                                         Ndiaye                    Louga                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                            Koki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RAILROADS
                                                     Tioukougne Peul                                                                                      Linguère
                                                                                           Kébémèr                                     Daraa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                        Fâs Boye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Va                                           én
                                                                                                                                  LOUGA                                                                             llée




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ég                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                Darou Khoudos                                                                                                                                                              du                                         al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F
                                                                               Mékhé                      Darou Mousti                                                                                           Mamâri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lo
                                                                                                                                                               Vèlingara
                                        CAP-             Kayar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12°W
                                                                     Tivaouane                                     Mbaké                                                                                           M ATA M                                                 Bakel
                                        VERT                     Thiès             DIOURBEL                                                                                         La Ferdo
                            DAKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                            Val
                                             Rufisque
                                                           THIÈS                                   Diourbel                                                                                    lée   du Mboun                                                                                       To
                                                                                                         Gossas                                                                                                                                                                                    Kayes
                                                                                                                                                                                    Payar
                                                     Mbour                         FATICK                                                                                                                                            Toubéré Bafal                                 Nayé
                                                                                                                                                             oum
                                                                                 Fatick                      Guinguinéo                                   Sal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Falém
                                                                                                                                       Kaffrine   KAOLACK
                                                                                  m




                                                                                 lo u                   Kaolack
                                                                               Sa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              é
                                                           Ndangane
           14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14°N
                                                                                                                                                   Niahène
                                                                                Sakone                                                                               Koungheul                      Koussanar
                        AT LAN TI C                                                                      Keur Madiabel                      Nganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tambacounda
                         OCEAN                                                            Karang
                                                                                                       Nioro du Rip                                                                 Maka
                                                                                                                                                                                                   dou
                                                                                                                                                                                                      gou
                                                                                                                                                                                            S an
                                                                                    To
                                                                                                            Gambia
                                                                                   Barra
                                                                                          TH E                                                                                                                                                       TAMBACOUNDA
                                                                       To
                                                                      Banjul                   IA
                                                                                         GAM B I A                                                                                                                     Meedina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dialakoto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gounas
                                                                                                                                                        e    KOLDA                     Vélingara       M
                                                                                                                                                  anc
                                                                                                              Bounkiling




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ko
                                                                                  Diouloulou                                                                                                                al
                                                                                                                                            am                                                                   ink



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ulo
                                                                                                                                         as                                                                            e



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        unt
                                                                                                                                                   Diana           Kolda
                                                                       ZIGUINCHOR                                                  C               Malari                                                                                          Gam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         bie                           Mako
                                                                                        Bignona                                                                                                  nga                                                                                                            Saraya
                                                                                                                                                                                             Kaya
                                                                                                   Casamance        Sédhiou               Tanaf
                                                                                Ziguinchor                                                                                                                                                                                     419 m
            0        25         50      75 Kilometers                                                                                              To                                                                                                                                             Kédougou
                                                            Diembéreng              Oussouye           Goudomp                                    Farim                     To                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                           Bafata                                                   Koundara
                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                   Ingore
            0              25             50 Miles

                                                                                                                               GUINEA-BISSAU                                                                                                                                                                 To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 36147
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Balake
            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                    GUINEA
MAY 2008




            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12°N
            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                               16°W                                                                                         14°W                                                                                         12°W
