Report No. PID10633
Project Name                     Bolivia-Second Phase of the Health...
Sector Reform Program (APL)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Health, Nutrition & Population
Project ID                       BOPE74212
Borrower                         Government of the Republic of Bolivia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
and the Productive and Social
Investment Fund
Environmental Category           B
Date this PID Prepared           June 11, 2001
Appraisal Date                   May 24, 2001
Project Board Date               June 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background:
This second phase of the Health Sector Reform adaptable program loan (APL2)
continues a successful, results-driven approach to investing in the reduction
of infant mortality in Bolivia, particularly among the most disadvantaged
communities. The Health Sector Reform Program follows an approach that
emphasizes the monitoring of results. Operationally, the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) for APL 1 sets out targets for eight performance indicators
designed to measure the outcomes of key, project-supported health
interventions aimed at reducing the infant mortality rate. Failure to meet
five of the annual targets would place the project in the "unsuccessful"
category and allow the Association to introduce remedies.
The purpose of the program is to help reduce the infant mortality rate by
complementing other interventions in education, rural productivity, and water
and sanitation described in the equity pillar of the Bolivia CAS. At the end
of phase III, the mortality rates of infants and children under five years of
age in Bolivia would be substantially closer to the average rate for Latin
America than they were in 1998 when the program was designed. The baseline
and targets are the following:
Baseline         (1998)  67
Target for       2001    60
Target for       2008    48
Infant Mortality Rate (per
1,000 births)
The Health Sector Reform Program consists of three phases. During APL 1
(1999-2001), an ambitious set of interventions were successfully introduced to
improve the performance of the public health services: (i) the Seguro Basico
de Salud (Basic Health Insurance-SBS) - a financing scheme for priority health



interventions regulated by the Ministry of Health and implemented by all
municipalities -- was established; (ii) the immunization program was revamped,
and new vaccines were introduced; and (iii) three new management and
implementation instruments were put into use: performance agreements (PA),
treatment protocols for mothers and babies and for children under five years
old, and an investment mechanism promoting maternal and child interventions.
During Phase I, these instruments were utilized in a simplified form, closely
supervised, and adjusted. While the SBS and PAs reached a national scale
during 2000, the other interventions are still being phased-in and have not
yet reached a national coverage.
The interventions initiated by APLi improved the performance of public
services where these services are well established. During APL2 (2002-2006),
these interventions would be expanded geographically, and a special effort
would be launched to reach underserved areas. During this phase, the
interventions introduced during APL1 would be mainstreamed by enabling local
agencies to manage and monitor them and by ensuring that they are increasingly
financed out of domestic budgets. Policies promoting further progress toward
decentralization of the social sectors are expected during implementation of
APL2, the interventions supported by the APL are designed to promote this
process by continuing to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Health (MSPS)
in policy-guidance and regulation, and the role of municipalities in
implementation. Specifically, during Phase II: (i) the Basic Health Insurance
Program would expand its benefit package to provide greater coverage of the
health needs of the poor; new forms of delivery of care using indigenous
community agents and itinerant health professionals would be incorporated in
the SBS; and other reforms to expand health insurance coverage in ways
consistent with decentralization would be supported; (ii) the performance
agreements already used by the MSPS and all nine political departments would
be expanded to include some of the larger municipalities as well; (iii) the
new vaccines would be available nationwide and be fully financed by domestic
sources; and (iv) a modified version of the investment mechanism promoting
maternal and child interventions piloted in five departments during APL1 would
be expanded to the national level and would place greater emphasis on
interventions designed to reduce perinatal mortality.
2. Project Objectives
The activities of APL2 will aim at the same development objectives as the
first APL:
To increase coverage and quality of health services and related programs
that would improve the health of the population, and to empower
communities to improve their health status; and
To strengthen local capacity to respond to health needs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
World Bank involvement is instrumental in:
Strengthening coordination of interventions across sectors and ensuring a
holistic view of health status development based on results;
Ability to leverage project results in the overall development objectives;
Networking and knowledge management capabilities to learn from other
countries undergoing similar processes and other sectors of the Bolivian
- 2 -



economy;
Mobilization of high-quality technical assistance for institutional
improvements;
Ability to mobilize resources and encourage donor coordination.
4. Project Description
Component I. Coverage and Quality improvements of the SBS and empowerment of
Communities
Strengthening policy development, regulation and monitoring of the SBS, by
supporting: improvement of the quality of information on the production of
services and on the health status of the population; the development of new
policies and the management and supervision of the SBS; and the implementation
of activities that empower indigenous users of the SBS.
Strengthening National Health Programs for Mothers and Children, by
supporting: the continued implementation of the Second Generation of the
Expanded Program of Immunizations and the preparation and implementation of
multi-donor support programs for IMCI, MBP, Nutrition and medical waste
management at the primary level.
Component II. Local Capacity to respond to health needs of the population
Assignment of health teams to expand the coverage of the SBS, by supporting:
the management of PRONEC (the National Program for the expansion of coverage
of the SBS) including targeting techniques to assign the new health teams; the
financing, training, and light-equipping of health teams consisting of
community workers and itinerant professionals in underserved areas; and
technical assistance to municipalities to implement the new teams;
Investment sub-projects to expand the coverage of the SBS; these sub-projects
would finance civil works and equipment required to make an effective use of
the new health teams assigned to currently underserved areas.
Component III. Monitoring of Performance Indicators and Project Coordination
Performance Agreements assigning resources and setting targets for the
expansion of coverage will be signed with regions and selected municipalities
and periodically monitored.
The project will help consolidate decentralization of the health system in
Bolivia within a framework of policy guidance and regulation provided by the
Ministry of Health. To this end, the project will assist the MSPS and
selected municipalities with:
? Prioritization of health interventions relevant to the poor, (i) by
ensuring financing for the interventions of the SBS (through the earmarking
of municipal expenditures and assuring central government funds for
vaccines and other public health interventions and (ii) by developing
schemes based on the use of community agents and itinerant health
professionals to reach remote and culturally diverse populations;
? Decentralization in a framework that allows local governments greater
flexibility in implementing national priorities. At the same time, the
project will strengthen the Ministry of Health's capacity to design
policies and provide incentives for the implementation of these priorities.
- 3-



5. Project Financing
Project costs are estimated at US$70 million. IDA financing would be for
US$35 million.
6. Project Implementation
This is a four-year project. The planned effectiveness date is December 30,
2001 with a closing date of June 30, 2006. The executing agency will be the
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare.
7. Project Sustainability
The health program contains several components with significant recurrent cost
implications. One is the Basic Health Insurance program (Seguro Basico de
Salud -SBS), which is financed by the municipalities. Continued financing of
SBS by municipalities is a necessary condition for success of the Health
Sector Reform Program. The SBS recently celebrated its second anniversary
and is widely considered one of the most successful programs of this
government. Considering the high regard with which this program is held and
the fact that with enhanced HIPC resources municipalities are likely to
receive approximately 50 percent more funds over the next 15 years than they
are receiving today , continued financing for the SBS is likely. However,
participation in this program by municipalities is voluntary. Hence, a legal
covenant is included in APL2 allowing IDA to suspend disbursements in the
event that this practice is discontinued by municipalities covering over 20%
of the population. The government plans to make participation in SBS
compulsory in future legislation concerning decentralization.
A second component with recurrent cost implications is the program designed
to expand coverage of the SBS. This program requires financing for the
salaries of community health agents and doctors. The estimated annual cost is
in the range of US$5 million to US$10 million, depending on the targets set
for the program. Exactly who will assume the recurrent costs of this program
is currently a pending issue, as the question of the timing of the transfer of
responsibility of management of human resources from the national level to the
municipalities is under discussion. There are several options here that will
be discussed over the course of the second phase. One option would be to
continue considering the program a national program and finance it from the
national treasury. As public health expenditure in Bolivia is very low
(around one percent of GDP), compared to a Latin American Average of 3-4
percent, there would appear to be scope to absorb the additional costs. A
second option would be to pass the responsibility on to the municipalities.
This may be risky as the experience with decentralization in other countries
has shown that local governments sometimes underinvest in health and education
and overinvest in highly visible physical infrastructure. However, the
decentralized system of fiscal transfers in Bolivia includes a set of
conditional transfers from the national governments to municipal governments
to finance projects selected by local governments from a menu of options
presented to them. These transfers, managed by the Directorio Onico de
Fondos, are attractive to the municipalities since they do not have to pay the
full cost of the investment. It would be possible to restrict access to these
additional resources to those municipalities that have maintained minimal
coverage levels of health and education, financed out of their own funds.
This possibility would have to be discussed during     implementation.  A third
option might be to create a trust fund from international donor funds that
would invest in Bolivia in much the same way as the pension funds operate.
- 4 -



The interest from the trust funds could be used to pay the recurrent costs of
this program to extend services to the poor. At present, there are
approximately $265 million of donor commitments undisbursed across some 65
different projects. The Ministry does not have the capacity to make use of
all these resources immediately. If half of the undisbursed commitments could
be reassigned to the trust fund, this would be sufficient to guarantee the
financing of the recurrent costs. Again, the pros and cons of this approach
would have to be weighed against the alternatives in the course of
implementation.
A third component is immunization. This would be financed as a national
program and the Government's development policy letter agreed to finance the
recurrent costs of the immunization program with National Treasury funds.
8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The project design reflects lessons learned from international interventions
in countries with high mortality rates and from IDA's experience with the
Bolivian health sector.
International lessons on expanding coverage
During the 1990s, Brazil, Mexico, and Peru successfully launched programs to
expand coverage of basic health care to their poor population in peri-urban
and in rural areas. The largest is Brazil's Family Health Program, which
expanded coverage to 36 million people in 4,500 municipalities using 10,000
Family Health Teams and plans to reach 70 million people by 2002. Mexico's
Program for the Expansion of Coverage reached 8 million people in 874
municipalities and employed 15,000 health workers in 2000. Peru's Basic
Health for All deployed 12,000 health workers in remote locations. World Bank
loans support these programs in Mexico and Peru, and a new loan will support
the Brazil Program. While each of these programs has features of its own,
they share three crucial features. First, the three programs were national
government initiatives. Each of these countries had piloted ways to deliver
primary care in underserved areas with support from NGOs. These pilots had
been useful to test delivery systems, but had only reached a national scale
after being developed as government programs.    Second, the three programs use
community agents of one kind or another. In Brazil, where this is most
developed, the agents are hired from the community where they will work and
reside and are paid a minimum salary. In these programs, agents do not
substitute for health professionals as they did in traditional Latin American
projects. Instead they work in teams with the professionals, bridging cultural
differences, emphasizing prevention, and organizing demand in such a way as
to optimize the use of carefully programmed visits by itinerant professionals.
Third, all three countries designed their programs using methods of
recruitment of new health workers that obviated rigid civil service
requirements. The three countries pay workers in these programs better than
many civil servants by adding a significant premium to assignments in
difficult locations and they use short-term contracts that can be extended in
return for meeting performance criteria. This combination was needed to avoid
the common problem of staff recently hired for difficult locations moving
into hospital locations soon after obtaining job stability. Mexico and Brazil
have now decentralized these workers. In Mexico, the states have signed
coordination agreements guaranteeing continuity of the program for at least 10
years. In Brazil, the Federal Government transfers special funds for this
- 5 -



program to participating municipalities.
The following lessons have been learned and insights gained from the
experience gathered during Phase I:
? Developing a results-oriented culture: This requires the use of a
limited number of clearly defined indicators with realistic targets.
Indicators need to be few to avoid a loss of focus. They need to be
monitored using a consistent methodology and they need to be available
in a periodic basis to allow monitoring and the implementation of
corrective actions.
? Use of Incentives. Reaching targets requires providing incentives for
local actors. APL1 made local authorities accountable by requiring them
to specific targets specified in the Performance Agreements. It used
the SBS to provide "market" incentives for providers and for users to
reach the targets.
? Taking into account the cultural barriers created by ethnic diversity.
Cultural diversity remains the greatest challenge for improved health of
the poor in Bolivia. APL1 began to bridge the cultural barrier with the
use of the activities described in annex 12. These activities need to
be developed in greater depth to succeed in overcoming the cultural
barrier.
? Developing Partnerships. The immunization program was successfully
revamped thanks to a strong partnership established between the Bank and
PAHO. PAHO provided technical support for the government and the Bank
emphasized the financial and institutional aspects. This partnership was
sustained during the whole period of project preparation and
implementation of APL1. Similar efforts are needed in other areas.
? Limited Capacity. APL1 focused on a few priority activities and
emphasized capacity development. This allowed to avoid overburdening
the limited capacity of participating institutions (MSPS,
municipalities, districts) and simultaneously created capacity for a
slightly more ambitious agenda to be developed under APL2.
9. Program of Targeted Interventions: Yes
10.  Environmental Aspects:   (Rating: B)
A review of medical waste management was prepared by PAHO as part of the
preparations for APL2. It found that there are serious problems in medical
waste management in hospitals but that important progress is being made at the
primary care level -- partly as a result of interventions of APL1.     At the
hospital level, waste management practices are deficient. The MSPS is
attempting to improve this situation with new legislation, and some of the
larger municipalities are undertaking projects for their main hospitals, but
much more will need to be done.
This APL focuses on    first and second level health establishments, and
substantial progress has been achieved at those levels. Specifically, the
activities financed by Phase I of the loan in support of the Expanded Program
of Immunization have improved medical waste management. The introduction of
combined vaccines (pentavalent) has reduced medical waste and the issuing of
biosecurity norms and training has benefited not just EPI practices, but also
other practices at the post/center level. Safe containers for waste
- 6 -



management are now widely available.
The review recommended that the efforts of APL1 be sustained, with continued
implementation of the waste management activities of Phase I, and that new
activities be introduced, including the development of medical waste guides
and manuals for the Basic Health Insurance program for use in posts/centers,
training, and supervision. These activities will be implemented as part of
component I of APL2. Additionally, component I will also contribute to the
preparation of a multi-donor action plan for medical waste at the primary
level and will contribute to financing part of the costs of that plan.
11. Program Objective Categories
The primary categories are physical investment and institutional building.
Contact Points
Dr. Fernando Lavadenz, Coordinator        Daniel Cotlear, Task Team Leader
Ministry of Health & Social Welfare       Human and Social Development Group
La Paz, Bolivia                           The World Bank
refsalud@mail.entelnet.bo                 1850 I Street NW, "I Building"
Phone:  591-2-442-666                     Mailstop I 7-700
Fax:    same as phone                     Washington, D.C. 20433
Phone: 202-473-5083
Fax:     202-522-3135
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:     (202) 522-1500
Do we have to have status?
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 31, 2001.
- 7 -



