Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22301-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.6 MILLION
(US$35.0 million equivalent)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
IN SUPPORT OF THE
SECOND PHASE OF THE HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
June 12, 2001
Human Development Department
Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 6, 2001)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
Bs 8.24 = US$I
US$1 = Bs 6.56
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADI          Acute Diarrheal Infection
APC          Adaptable Program Credit
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
ARI          Acute Respiratory Infection
Bank         Refers to both IBRD and IDA
CAI          Information Analysis Meeting
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDF          Comprehensive Development Framework
CEOC         Comprehensive Essential Obstetric Care
CG           Consultative Group
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DFID         British Assistance for Health Reform
DGSS         Direcci6n General de Servicios de Salud (General Office of Health Services)
DHS          Demographic and Health Survey (Encuesta Demogrdfica de Salud)
DPT          Diptheria, Pertusis, Tetanus vaccine
EA           Environmental Assessment
EPI          Expanded Program of Immunization
EXTENSA    Programa Nacionalpara la Extension de Cobertura del SBS (National Program for the
expansion of Basic Health Insurance)
FIS          Fondo de Inversi6n Social (Social Investment Fund)
FPS          Fondo Productivo y Social
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNP          Gross National Product
GTZ          Gesellschaft fur technische Zusammenarbeit (German technical cooperation agency)
HDI          Human Development Index
HIB          Haemophilus Influenzae type B vaccine
HIPC         Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IADB         Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
IMCI         Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (Atenci6n Integral de las Enfermedades
Prevalentes de la Infancia)
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader:  Daniel Cotlear



IMF          International Monetary Fund
IMR          Infant Mortality Rate
IRR          Internal rate of return
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
MAR          Mecanismo de Asignaci6n de Recursos (Resource Allocation Mechanism)
MBP          Mother-Baby Package (Paquete Materno-Neonatal)
MMR          Maternal Mortality Rate
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MSPS         Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Saludy Previsi6n Social)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NPV          Net present value
ORT          Oral Rehydration Therapy
PA           Performance Agreements
PAHO         Pan American Health Organization
PES          Plan Estrategico de Salud (Strategic Health Plan)
PMR          Project Management Report
POA          Plan Operativo Anual (Annual Operating Plan)
PROISS       Proyecto Integrado de Servicios de Salud (Integrated Health Development Project)
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS         Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SBS          Seguro Basico de Salud (Basic Health Insurance)
SEDES        Servicios Departamentales de Salud (Departmental Health Services)
SNIS         Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n de Salud (National System of Health Information)
TOR          Terms of Reference
UDAPE        Unidad de Analisis de Politica Economica (Unit for the Analisis of Economic Policy)
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
URS          Unidad de Reforma de Salud (Health Reform Unit)
WHO          World Health Organization






Bolivia
Second Phase of the Health Sector Reform Program
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective ...................................................................2
1. Program   purpose and program   phasing ...................................................................                      2
2. Project development objective ......................                            ............................................3
3. Key performance indicators ...................................................................3
B Strategic Context ...................................................................4
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices .................................7
4. Program   description  and perforn ance triggers for subsequent loans ........................... 10
C  Project Description Summary ..................................................................                                              14
1. Project components .................................................................. 14
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................1  5
3. Benefits and target population ..................................................................                               15
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ........................................................... 16
D   Project Rationale .................................................................. 18
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ....................                            ......................... 1 8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 19
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design .............................                        ........................ 20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................                               ......................... 2 1
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................ 21
E  Summary Project Analysis ..................................................................                                                 22
1. Economic ................................................................... 22
2. Financial ..................................................................                                                   22
3. Technical .................................................................. 23
4. Institutional ..................................................................                                                23
5. Social ..................................................................                                                      23
6. Environmental assessment ..................................................................                                     23
7. Participatory  approach ..................................................................                                      24
8. Financial Management ..................................................................                                          24
F   Sustainability  and  Risks .................................................................. 25
1. Sustainability ..................................................................                                              25
2. Critical Risks ..................................................................                                               26



G Main Loan Conditions ........................ 27
1. Effectiveness Conditions ........................                     27
2. Other ........................                                        27
H Readiness for Implementation ........................                         27
I Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                        28
Annexes
Annex I      Project Design Summary
Annex 2      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4      Economic and Equity Analysis
Annex 5      Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex I1.    Letter of Development Policy
Annex 12.    Participation and Social Communication
Annex 13.    Basic Health Insurance (SBS)
Annex 14.    Support to the Medium-term immunization plan
Annex 15.    Medical Waste Management
Map



Bolivia
Second Phase APL for Health Sector Reform
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Social and Human Development
Date: June 12, 2001                   Team Leader: Daniel Cotlear
Country Manager/Director: Isabel      Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Guerrero
Project ID: P074212                   Sector: HY - Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Lending Instrument: APL               Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention:       [X] Yes [ ] No
Program Xinancing Data
APL            Indicative Financing Plan    Estimated Implementation         Borrower
Period (Bank FY)
IDA        Others   Total  Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %    US$m   US$m           Date        Date
APL 1           25.0   57%       19.0    44.0   FY1999        FY2002        Republic of Bolivia
Loan/                                                     (expected)
C redit   _ _ _ _ _                                       _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2           35.0   50%       35.0    70.0   FY 2001         2005        Republic of Bolivia
Loan/
Credit
AP 3            15.0   42%       20.0    35.0   FY 2005       FY 2008       Republic of Bolivia
Loan/
Credit_____________________________________
Project Financing Data
[I Loan   [X] Credit        [  Grant    [] Guarantee    [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Project Cost (US$m)   70.0
Total Bank Financing (US$m)  35.0
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10    Years to         Commitment Fee: N/A             Service Charge: 0.75
maturity: 40
Estimated Disbursements
FY                               2002                 2003                 2004             2005
Annual                            7.61                9.53                 10.70            7.16
Cumulative                       7.61                 17.41               27.84             35.0
Borrower: Republic of Bolivia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
Project implementation period: 4 years   Expected Effectiveness Date: December 31, 2001
Expected Closing date: June 30, 2006
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Productive and Social Investment Fund
Contact person: Fernando Lavadenz, General Manager
Tel: 591-2-442-666                                        E-mail: refsalud@mail.entelnet.bo



A: PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Proaram vurvose and proeram phasing (see Annex 1)
This second phase of the Health Sector Reform adaptable program loan (APL2) continues a successful,
results-driven approach to investing in the reduction of infant mortality in Bolivia, particularly among the
most disadvantaged communities. The Health Sector Reform Program follows an approach that
emphasizes the monitoring of results. Operationally, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for APL
I introduces an innovation to emphasize results: it sets out targets for eight performance indicators
designed to measure the outcomes of key, project-supported health interventions aimed at reducing the
infant mortality rate. Project success is defined as reaching the targets for at least five of the eight
performance indicators each year'. The project has been highly successful - in 2000 all targets for 2000
were exceeded and seven of the targets for 2001 were reached (a year in advance).
The purpose of the program is to help reduce the infant mortality rate by complementing other
interventions in education, rural productivity, and water and sanitation described in the equity pillar of the
Bolivia CAS. The Bolivia CAS of 1998 proposed targets for the infant mortality rate; these targets were
revised in the Bolivia CDF Document of May 21, 1999 (Report No. 19326 - BO). The following table
shows the baseline from the Bolivia CAS, the target proposed by the Bolivia CDF Document, and the
end-of-program target proposed by the PAD for APL I for Health Sector Reform (Report No. 18980 -
BO). At the end of phase III, the mortality rates of infants and children under five years of age in Bolivia
would be substantially closer to the average rate for Latin America than they were in 1998 when the
program was designed.
Baseline     Target for 2001   Target for 2008
(1998)
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 births)  67            60               48
The Health Sector Reform Program consists of three phases. During APL 1 (1999-2001), an ambitious
set of interventions were successfully introduced to improve the performance of the public health
services: (i) the Seguro Basico de Salud (Basic Health Insurance-SBS) - a financing scheme for priority
health interventions regulated by the Ministry of Health and implemented by all municipalities -- was
established; (ii) the immunization program was revamped, and new vaccines were introduced; and (iii)
three new management and implementation instruments were put into use: performance agreements
(PA), treatment protocols for mothers and babies and for children under five years old, and an investment
mechanism promoting maternal and child interventions. During Phase I, these instruments were utilized
in a simplified form, closely supervised, and adjusted. While the SBS and PAs reached a national scale
during 2000, the other interventions are still being phased-in and have not yet reached a national
coverage.
The interventions initiated by APL I improved the performance of public services where these services are
well established. During APL2 (2002-2006), these interventions would be expanded geographically, and
a special effort would be launched to reach underserved areas. During this phase, the interventions
introduced during APL I would be mainstreamed by enabling local agencies to manage and monitor them
and by ensuring that they are increasingly financed out of domestic budgets. Policies promoting further
progress toward decentralization of the social sectors are expected during implementation of APL2, the
Lack of "success" allows the Bank to cease disbursements and request a restructuring of the project.
2



interventions supported by the APL are designed to promote this process by continuing to strengthen the
role of the Ministry of Health (MSPS) in policy-guidance and regulation, and the role of municipalities in
implementation. Specifically, during Phase II: (i) the Basic Health Insurance Program would expand its
benefit package to provide greater coverage of the health needs of the poor; new forms of delivery of care
using indigenous community agents and itinerant health professionals would be incorporated in the SBS;
and other reforms to expand health insurance coverage in ways consistent with decentralization would be
supported; (ii) the performance agreements already used by the MSPS and all nine political departments
would be expanded to include some of the larger municipalities as well; (iii) the new vaccines would be
available nationwide and be fully financed by domestic sources; and (iv) a modified version of the
investment mechanism promoting maternal and child interventions piloted in five departments during
APLI would be expanded to the national level and would place greater emphasis on interventions
designed to reduce perinatal mortality.
Phase III (2006 to 2008) would focus on: (i) developing processes to complete the sustainability of the
interventions of this APL. Specifically, the SBS became self-financed during APLI by securing
earmarked municipal funds, and immunizations would become government-financed during APL2, the
challenge for APL3 would be to make the proposed expansion of health teams in underserved areas
domestically financed as part of the process of decentralization. (ii) extending maternal and child
investments beyond the primary and secondary care levels by also investing in third level hospital
maternities; and (iii) integrating into the SBS framework the use of private providers and social security
providers, and by developing more complete insurance instruments possibly including the introduction of
premiums or co-payments for higher-income beneficiaries.
2. Proiect development objective
The activities of APL2 will aim at the same development objectives as APLI:
* To increase coverage and quality of health services and related programs that would improve the
health of the population, and to empower communities to improve their health status; and
*  To strengthen local capacity to respond to health needs.
3. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
Progress during APL 1 was monitored using eight indicators measuring coverage, quality, equity and
sustainability (see evaluation of these performance indicators in section B4). During APL 2, the same
indicators will be used, with one small change. On the recommendation of specialists who consider that at
the stage reached in Bolivia diarrheal infections should increasingly be prevented, rather than medically
treated, the indicator for medical coverage of diarrheal infection will be replaced by an indicator
measuring the coverage of nutrition programs. As explained below, during 1999 and 2000, partially as a
result of APL 1, the evolution of these indicators was better than the historic trend. The new targets have
been chosen based on the improved trend. The following indicators will be used (for quantitative targets
and definitions, see annex IA):
Coverage Indicators
*  Births attended by trained health personnel
*  Pneumonia cases of children attended in health services
*  Immunization coverage with pentavalent vaccine
*  Percent of children under 2 with third dose of iron
3



Quality Indicators
*  Complete prenatal care attendance
*  Early neonatal hospital mortality.
Equity Indicator
* Number of municipalities with pentavalent coverage of less than 80%.
Sustainability Indicator
*  Annual targets for the domestic financing of vaccines
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strate2v (CAS) goal supported by the proiect (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22162-BO                Date of latest CAS discussion: June 5, 2001
The Bolivia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report was discussed by the Board on June 5,
2001. Prior to this, the last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bolivia covering FY98-02 was
discussed by the Board in May 1998. A CAS update was discussed by the Board in connection with the
presentation of Bolivia's Poverty Reduction Strategy in June 2001.
The Health Reform APL was included in the 1998 CAS because Bolivia had high absolute levels of infant
mortality and, relative to its per capita income level, was one of the countries with the worst overall infant
and child mortality levels. The APL was designed to contribute to meeting one of the four CAS core
benchmarks - the infant mortality rate. An APL was proposed in the 1998 CAS because it was
recognized that improving infant mortality would take time and that the health sector would have to adapt
to changes occurring throughout the rest of the government. The second phase of the APL was proposed
for FY01 and is being presented on schedule. In addition to helping meet the infant mortality goal, the
second phase of the APL will place increased emphasis on nutrition and will thereby contribute to
meeting another CAS core benchmark - with respect to child nutrition. The preparation of this second
phase has benefited from a nutrition study carried out by the Bank in FY01.
The first phase of the Health Reform APL placed considerable emphasis on results-oriented management.
This was a resounding success and will be carried forward through the second phase of the APL. In this
respect, the health sector is providing an important demonstration effect for other sectors. Increasing the
emphasis on development results and performance-based management was an important feature of the
1998 CAS, the 2001 CAS Update, and Bolivia's Poverty Reduction Strategy, as well as the recently
discussed CAS Progress Report.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strate2
Even considering that Bolivia is one of the poorest countries in the region, it has significantly
underperformed in health. The 1998 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) estimated an infant mortality
rate (IMR) of 67 per 1,000 and an under-5 mortality of 92 per 1,000 for 1994-1998. The most recent
official estimate of Maternal Mortality dates back to the 1994 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS),
which registered 390 deaths per 100,000 births for the 1984-94 period. If we decompose the mortality
rates, we see a huge differential between the poorest and the wealthiest populations - infant mortality was
five times higher among the poorest 20% of the population than among the richest 20% (see the equity
analysis in annex 4a). This gap is evidence of a major failure of the health system, as well as the
underlying social, economic and cultural conditions. The major system failures can be found in
historically low coverage of essential, high-impact interventions, and serious quality deficiencies, in terms
4



of both technical quality and client perceptions / respectful care. Low coverage was the result of a
combination of demand and supply factors. Demand factors included an economic barrier, created by
high user fees and high costs of medicines and a cultural barrier created by ethnic and cultural differences.
Supply factors, including the persistence of underserved areas have begun to be addressed in terms of
investments for civil works and equipment for poor areas, but little progress has been achieved in
improving the distribution of human resources to poor areas.
By the end of the 1990s, the government introduced two new programs aimed at expanding coverage and
improving quality of basic services and fighting communicable diseases: the Basic Health Insurance
scheme (Seguro Basico de Salud - SBS), aimed at reforming the financing and delivery of a basic
package of services for mothers, children, and other vulnerable groups and the Escudo Epidemiologico
(epidemiological shield --EE), aimed at curbing the transmission of chagas, malaria and tuberculosis.
APLI supported the SBS and health projects supported by other donors supported the EE. There have
also been major investments in other sectors with significant implications for health outcomes such as
provision of water and sanitation (US$227 million committed during 1999 to 2002), education (US$254
million committed during 1999 to 2002), and nutrition (US$92 million during 1999 and 2000).
While data on infant and maternal mortality rate trends will not be available until 2002, when the results
of the 2001 national population census and the 2002 DHS become available, indirect evidence suggests
that significant progress is being achieved in reducing mortality as a result of the new programs.
Considering that the main causes of child death during the 1990s were acute diarrhea diseases-ADD
(36%), pneumonias (20%) and insufficient obstetric care leading to perinatal deaths, the substantial
improvements achieved in the coverage of ADD, pneumonias and institutional deliveries during 1998-
2000 (see section B.4.A) are expected to have contributed to a lowering in this indicator. The increase in
coverage of pre-natal care and of institutional deliveries (see section B.4.A) is also expected to have
contributed to a significant reduction in maternal mortality.
The SBS was developed to eliminate the economic access barrier by giving the population free access to a
basic package of 75 preventive and curative interventions targeting the country's main causes of maternal
and child mortality and morbidity from endemic diseases. Its implementation in 1999 represented the
second step of a phased process, which started in 1996 with the Mother and Child Insurance program (a
package of 26 services). The ensuing increase in coverage of key indicators (deliveries, vaccination,
pneumonias and diarrheas) can be partly attributed to the implementation of the SBS. (See Annex 13 for
more details on the SBS). Implementation of the SBS was supported by APL I and by projects supported
by other donors (see section D2).
Expansion of coverage in recent years has been accompanied by improved quality of services. A
significant effort was made to overcome the cultural challenges arising from the cultural and ethnic
diversity that characterizes Bolivian society by making health providers more respectful of the
preferences and needs of the client. These efforts included a number of efforts organized jointly by
MSPS and the two largest indigenous organizations to empower communities (see Annex 12 for details).
The technical aspects of quality also improved by reducing the fragmentation of mother and child
programs -- the SBS created an umbrella policy through which previously fragmented mother and child
programs found a common institutional arrangement and were provided with sustainable financing of
recurrent costs by municipalities. Under this umbrella, the government, with support from several donors
introduced internationally tested protocols for the treatment of children under five (Integrated
Management of Childhood Illness -- IMCI), and for mothers and babies (Mother Baby Package - MBP).
It also launched the second generation of the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI). The SBS has
also begun to overcome the traditional fragmentation of donor support to the health sector. Having started
life as a project coordination unit for APLI, the administration of the SBS was absorbed by the Health
5



Ministry (the MSPS) and a planning effort is under way to channel donor support for MSPS in a coherent
fashion (using the Matriz Ordenadora de la cooperaci6n tecnica - see section D.2)
In 1999 and 2000 the government also had success with communicable diseases through the Escudo
Epidemiol6gico Project (EE) financed by the IADB and DFID. The EE aims to guarantee a healthy
national environment, reducing mortality and morbidity from the country's principal endemic diseases,
namely chagas, malaria and tuberculosis, and promoting individual, family and community health. In the
fight against chagas, over 150,000 houses were sprayed in 2000, benefiting over 1 million people, and
transfusion control activities were initiated targeting blood banks and transfusion centers. The annual
parasitic incidence of malaria was cut by one third from its 1998 peak (from 290.7 to 58.3 per 1000 in
2000) through a strategy combining vector control with the active and passive search for and free
treatment of cases.
A consortium of donors carried out a nutrition assessment in 1999 and 2000 to determine how well the
government was addressing malnutrition. The World Bank had a particularly strong interest in this
because malnutrition was a core CAS indicator. The study included beneficiary assessments and
constraints assessments in 24 of the poorest municipalities in Bolivia. It also included a public
expenditure review of nutrition, quantitative analyses using three surveys, an institutional analysis, and
several syntheses of lessons learned in Bolivia. The results of the study showed that the governmentt is
devoting about $63 million per year to nutrition related programs of which only 7% are targeted to the
high priority groups and cost-effective programs. It also showed that the poor are highly conscious of
malnutrition and its multiple causes -- from environmental degradation to unemployment to lack of
knowledge about what foods are nutritious -- but that nutrition program managers do not understand how
their programs actually impact on nutrition and programs are often inappropriate. The study makes it
clear that household behaviors are the primary cause of malnutrition in the vast majority of households.
Such behaviors include inadequate breastfeeding, feeding watery low nutrient soups to weaning age
children, poor hygiene and unsanitary food handling practices, and failure to understand how much and
how often an infant really needs to eat. While infectious disease, particularly diarrhea, is a significant
cause of malnutrition, it is also the product of malnutrition. One way to break the vicious cycle is to
improve household feeding and sanitation behaviors. The study is being reviewed by the Government
and donors seeking to identify key interventions to undertake in the short term and whether to finance
these interventions from new projects, by redirecting existing funds from inefficient projects, or by a
combination of these options.
APL2 will adapt community based growth promotion as a key means of changing household behaviors
and organizing the health and nutrition promotion work of community health workers. The model has
been used successfully elsewhere in Latin America and the materials and methods will be rapidly adapted
to the Bolivian context.
Government Strategy
The government, now working within a new framework set by the "National Dialogue 2000," has made
the reduction of child and maternal mortality a core component of its health sector strategy, as is
reflected in the Strategic Health Plan (PES) published in June 1998. The national dialogue consolidated
demands from local and national governments, civil society, and other actors, and culminated in the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the National Dialogue Law Project currently being
discussed by the Senate.
The PRSP's main health sector objectives are to reduce maternal and child mortality and to bring the
principal endemic diseases under control. To achieve those objectives, the Strategy envisages the
following priority actions: (a) efficient management of human resources; (b) expansion of the SBS; (c)
control of communicable diseases and strengthening of the epidemiological surveillance system; (d)
6



improved quality and nutritional status of the population; and (e) development of interculturality in
health. The first phase of this APL supported interventions related to points (b), (c) and (e) above. In the
second phase, activities are also planned to attract health workers to areas that remain underserved by the
health services, responding to the first priority action identified by the PRSP.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Despite the significant progress referred to above, many of the poor continue to suffer from low coverage
of basic services and the low quality and responsiveness of those to which they do have access.
Expanding coverage of SBS interventions requires expanding both demand and supply of services. To
expand demand, the economic and cultural obstacles need to be confronted, requiring further
strengthening of the SBS and empowering communities. Expanding supply requires boosting the
effectiveness of the technical programs for mother and child health, assigning more health workers to
underserved areas, and enhancing local capacities to implement the SBS. These issues are discussed
below:
Strengthening Management of the SBS
To be successful the SBS requires better information on the production of services and the health status of
the population; and active management and monitoring of incentives for health providers and of the
quality of the services provided
Support for Information Systems. The main source of information on the production of health services in
Bolivia is SNIS (Sistema Nacional de Informacion de Salud). After receiving support from several
projects, today, in terms of the presentation and timeliness of its data, SNIS compares favorably with
information systems in other Latin American countries. Despite this achievement, for the purposes of this
project it has two important shortcomings. First, it reports information about the production of services
by health providers, but it does not directly deal with coverage or with outcomes for the population.
Second, the information is not subject to external controls and local administrators have incentives to
exaggerate the effectiveness of the services they are responsible for.
Support to the Administration of the SBS. The SBS is implemented by the municipalities, which finance
and manage the accounts used to pay for the services covered by the SBS. The MSPS has a policy-setting
and regulatory role vis-a-vis  the SBS. The policy-setting role is applied by establishing the
microeconomic incentives for providers, for instance by defining the interventions covered in the SBS
benefit package, the reimbursement rate, and the payment mechanisms used to reimburse the services.
The MSPS is currently considering ways to: induce greater use of high priority interventions (e.g. by
rewarding mothers who complete a pre-natal cycle or attend nutrition-related workshops), develop new
service delivery methods (e.g. itinerant health professionals for rural areas), help small municipalities to
pool resources, create mechanisms for inter-municipal payments (when a hospital in one municipality
serves beneficiaries from another municipality), incorporate providers outside the public sector (such as
NGOs or hospitals in the social security system), and link the SBS with other health insurance schemes.
MSPS's regulatory role over the SBS is exercised by assisting municipalities in the control of the
appropriate and effective use of SBS municipal funds. In recent months there have been a number of
accusations of misuse of SBS funds, mostly because funds have been used to pay interventions not
included in the SBS package, but also because of alleged over-invoicing. At present controls are
conducted manually. A control software is being designed (financed by Phase I of this APL). Once
implemented, the software will not only identify irregularities but also accelerate payment to health
providers by municipalities. [The SBS is described in more detail in Annex 13].
7



Support for community empowerment activities
Bolivia has significant ethnic and cultural diversity, with 57 percent of the population belonging to
Quechua, Aymara and other smaller native groups in 1999. While there is no specific information about
the coverage of health services to indigenous groups, they are known to be a large part of the population
without basic health services. Because most of the non-native population (43 percent) already had access
to services prior to the recent expansion of coverage achieved by the SBS, it is likely that most of this
expansion has been among the native population. Despite this, a key challenge of the health service
remains to increase coverage to the indigenous populations. APL 1 made significant efforts to achieve this
aim, including: (i) incorporating the results of anthropological studies in the SBS health care protocols
(including traditional drugs at the primary level of care); (ii) formalizing agreements with two of the
largest indigenous organizations to implement the SBS in indigenous areas with monitoring by an
indigenous health committee, financing the establishment of pharmaceutical funds, purchasing
motorboats, training indigenous health workers as nursing auxiliaries, and granting civil service posts for
indigenous staff trained as auxiliary nurses; (iii) supporting the Willaqkuna project, which combines
occidental and traditional medicine and has assigned Willaqkuna representatives to supervise maternity
services in 10 hospitals; (iv) developing the Pregnant Women 's Bill of Rights based on focal groups that
included indigenous women; and (v) implementing user satisfaction surveys in 40 urban hospitals.
APL2 will continue these efforts and engage in new activities in four key areas: (i) formally incorporating
communal agents as members of health teams; (ii) implementing the practice of having health
professionals co-sign the Pregnant Women's Bill of Rights with pregnant women during their first pre-
natal consultation, (iii) training the newly created Health Advocates to be community representatives for
health issues in various government bodies; and (iv) expanding the use of user satisfaction surveys to
rural hospitals and to the first level of care and including ethnic background as part of the questionnaires.
Support to national programs for mothers and children
While the SBS provides financing for key interventions, their quality depends on the national programs
that regulate the technical content of these interventions. In recent years there have been significant
interventions in the areas of immunizations, the treatment protocols for mothers and children, nutrition,
and the management of medical waste at the primary level.
Support for the Second Generation Expanded Immunization Program (see a more detailed description in
annex 14). During 1996-99, immunization coverage fell due to (a) institutional weaknesses of the
country's health system in general and that of the Expanded Program on Immunization, in particular; (b)
insufficient and inconsistent allocation of funds by the government, relying mostly on funds from extemal
cooperation; and (c) lack of a sustained social communications strategy. Also, Bolivia lagged behind the
rest of the Americas in the incorporation of Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine (HIB), which in other
countries had proved to be a potentially powerful factor in reducing infant mortality. During 1999-2000,
with the support of PAHO, other donor agencies, and Phase I of this APL, the Government reversed the
downturn trends by implementing a medium-term immunization plan that introduced the Second
Generation Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI). Immunization coverage with three doses of DPT
reached 89 percent in 2000 and the measles outbreak of 1998-2000 is now under control. Key elements
during Phase I of the Project included: agreement with the Ministry of Finance on the need to increase
domestic financing of vaccines, strengthening the management of the EPI Unit, completing the
introduction of new vaccines (including HIB), consolidating the implementation of rapid response
brigades (Brigadas de Acci6n Rapida - BEAR), and improving the surveillance system. These
improvements need to be sustained and completed.
8



Supportfor quality improvements in priority nationalprograms related to the SBS. In recent years, partly
through the efforts of Phase I of this APL, Mother and Child programs have been revamped. Treatment
of children under 5 is now done using Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) protocols.
The original WHO protocols were adapted to Bolivian needs by PAHO and adopted by the MSPS. They
were also supported by numerous other donors (especially USAID) and NGOs (especially BASICS) that
now have developed effective systems of institutional coordination. Pregnancy and birth now benefit
from the Mother Baby Package (MBP), as adapted to Bolivian circumstances by MotherCare (a USAID-
financed organization) and other NGOs. Large-scale programs offering training in the appropriate use of
IMCI and MBP are currently under way, and the MSPS is launching an evaluation effort to assess the
impact of these initiatives so far. A World Bank team has produced a report on the status of nutrition in
Bolivia and has made recommendations for the improvement of nutritional interventions. This report is
currently under discussion with the Government and other donors. Multi-donor coordination efforts are
also under way in the area of nutrition, and there is a systematic effort to improve the nutritional impact of
food programs, strengthen their educational impact, improve their targeting, and reduce duplication.
There are several initiatives to improve medical waste management in hospitals, including drafting of new
legislation. The Expanded Program of Immunizations, partly with support from Phase 1 of this program,
has also introduced significant improvements in the management of waste at the primary level (See
annex 14 on the immunization program and annex 15 on medical waste management).
In collaboration with other government and donor initiatives, Phase 1 of this APL successfully placed
these programs on the national agenda, launched the initial activities for the design of technical protocols,
and organized large-scale training programs. At present there is a need to evaluate the progress achieved,
identify gaps for further work, agree with other donor agencies on a division of labor and a system of
coordination, and then to fill any financing gaps. There is also a special need to boost MSPS capacity to
monitor the effectiveness of the large training programs under way. At the moment it only measures the
inputs (number of workers or community members trained). In addition, accreditation and licensing
procedures for health providers serving the SBS have yet to be developed.
Support for the expansion of SBS coverage
During 1998-2000 coverage of the SBS has improved significantly in those areas where there exists a
supply of services. While this has included those poor municipalities where services are available, it has
benefited to a lesser extent underserved areas. During the 1990s there were many attempts to expand
coverage into underserved areas. These attempts mostly emphasized investments in infrastructure and
equipment. Many of these investments remain underutilized because health workers have not been
assigned to those areas, or if they were hired for these locations, soon after becoming public employees
they moved into hospitals and other attractive locations. Previously, the system required all physicians to
do a year of compulsory rural service, as a pre-requisite for receiving their degree or for obtaining a
public sector job. Several pilot projects, generally supported by NGOs, have emphasized different
techniques to reach underserved locations with human resources (locally known as "family health or
community health" models of delivery of service). Well documented successful experiences include, in
rural areas, San Lorenzo (CIDA, Canada), Yotala (Catholic church), and Challapata (DFID-UK) and in
urban areas El Alto (Dutch Cooperation) and Guayaramerin (CIDA, Canada). Despite their success in
their small area of operation, these pilots have not been expanded and in some cases even after several
decades of operation continue to function as local projects benefiting a small population. Mexico, Brazil
and Peru have struggled with the challenge of taking similar experiences to a national scale and have now
found ways to do so. Bolivia now plans to replicate this experience by adopting two key features of these
programs (see lessons learned). First, these programs make use of health teams, consisting on the use of
local community agents (indigenous where relevant) combined with itinerant health professionals and
auxiliary nurses. The community agents live in the community, provide a cultural bridge in ethnically
diverse contexts and focus on preventive and health promotional activities, and on organizing the demand
9



for professional services. Health professionals work on an itinerant fashion, visiting each location with
predetermined schedules that allow target groups (such as mothers, school children, infants, etc.) to
effectively access their services. Second, in all these countries, the expansion has been based on hiring
health workers outside the rigid norms and regulations of the civil service. Health workers are hired using
short-term private contracts that pay relatively high bonuses for difficult locations and stipulate
performance criteria for success in the job. Renewal of contracts is done periodically and is based on
success in reaching the performance criteria.
4. Proeram description and nerformance triggers for subsequent loans
Evaluation of Triggers for Phase 1
Triggers to move from Phase I to Phase 2 included: (i) the achievement of the targets for 2001 in eight
performance indicators, (ii) progress toward institutional change in five areas; and (iii) adequate progress
in disbursements. An evaluation of the progress achieved towards meeting these triggers was carried out
as part of the appraisal of APL2 and concluded that these triggers were met successfully. Performance in
relation to these triggers is described below.
Performance Indicators
During negotiations it was agreed that the project would be considered successful if in a given year fewer
five or more of the eight indicators reached their target for the year. The trigger for APL2 consisted of
meeting the targets for 2001. As shown in the table below, seven of the eight targets for 2001 were
reached in 2000 (a year ahead of schedule), hence this trigger was met.
Achievement of Trigger for the Performance Indicators
Variable                Baseline for  Targets for     Results 2000       Targets Met / Not
1996-98     Phase 11                            Met
Institutional births    36%          43%              50%               Met
Complete prenatal       28%          36%              32%               Not met
controls
Early neonatal hospital  1.44%       1.20%            0.90%             Met
mortality
Pneumonia               68,346       105,000          112,154           Met
ADI                     292,417      370,000          450,772           Met
DPT3                    75%          75%              86%               Met
Municipal coverage of   212          119              72                 Met
DPT3<80%
EPI domestic Financing    0.5        3.5              3.06              Met (US$3.5
(US$ million)                                                           million budgeted
for 2001)
Coverage Indicators
* Coverage of births attended by trained health personnel. Low coverage of births attended by trained
health personnel has been identified as a main cause of perinatal and maternal mortality and the
evolution of this indicator has received special attention from the Government and the donor
community as a leading benchmark for HIPC I and CDF (and is now being proposed for the PRSP).
With a baseline of 36 percent for 1996-98, the project set a target of 43 percent in 2001. This
indicator was one of the most successful: by end-2000 coverage had already reached 52 percent,
exceeding the target for 2001.
10



* Number of child pneumonia cases attended in health services. Pneumonia is one of the leading causes
of infant mortality in Bolivia. This indicator was set in absolute numbers (instead of a percentage) to
avoid controversies about the actual number of children with pneumonia, which is difficult to
estimate. This indicator had the most ambitious target for improvement (54 percent). Following a
slow start in 1999, the MSPS boosted efforts to improve this indicator by raising the rate of
reimbursements paid by the SBS for attending to pneumonia, improving the availability of antibiotics,
and training personnel. This resulted in a significant improvement of this indicator in 2000. By end
2000, the benchmarks for 2001 had been reached.
* Number of children's diarrhea cases attended in health services. Deaths from diarrhea ceased to be
the main cause of infant mortality in Bolivia during the 1990s, thanks to an expansion of water and
sanitation services, extensive use of oral rehydration therapy, and high coverage of diarrhea cases by
the health system. Because of the relatively high initial coverage, the targeted increase in this
indicator was modest (27 percent). The end-2000 coverage exceeded the target for 2001.
* Immunization Coverage. After making significant gains in the early 1990s, immunization coverage
wavered during 1995-98. The project aimed to improve coverage and introduce new vaccines. The
tracer indicators for immunization were DPT3 for 1999 and pentavalent vaccine (which includes
vaccines against DPT, HIB and hepatitis B) for 2000-2002. Outbreaks of measles (due to the low
coverage of 1995-98) and yellow fever required much attention by the immunization program and led
to delays in the introduction of the pentavalent vaccine. Despite those delays, the immunization
coverage program may be deemed a success as coverage of DPT3 rose to 86 percent in 2000,
exceeding the pentavalent vaccine coverage target. In fact introduction of the pentavalent vaccine
was only delayed by a matter of months, and it is now being widely utilized.
Quality Indicators
- Complete Prenatal Care attendance. This indicator measures the number of women who, after
having a first prenatal contact, go on to complete the recommended pre-natal scheme2. The baseline
for this indicator was low (28 percent). It is regarded as an important measure of quality because it
enables risk identification and a lowering of complications associated with deliveries, as well as
guaranteeing that mothers have access to family planning information and nutrition education. As it
is known to be a demanding indicator, a low target was set for Phase 1 of the APL. While there has
been some progress in this indicator, it has been less marked than in all the other variables, possibly
because in the past there was no special effort to give it an impluse. By end-2000, the target for 2000
was met (32 percent), but the trigger (the target for 2001) was not met. The Government is
examining the possibility of providing special incentives for mothers who comply with the full
scheme during the second phase of the APL. These incentives would be financed by the SBS and
could be linked with a stronger emphasis on nutrition interventions.
* Early neonatal hospital mortality. This variable measures the number of deaths during the first seven
days of life per 1,000 live births reported in the ten largest tertiary hospitals. The reporting system did
not exist prior to the project and was created to monitor progress in this variable. The mortality
baseline was high, and -because no major interventions were planned in hospitals during Phase 1 -- a
modest target was established. This indicator was included to pave the way for Phase 2 by providing
incentives for the government to monitor this variable. The added attention paid off, as hospitals
rapidly reacted by establishing simple but important improvements in the management of newborns.
By end-2000, the target for 2001 was exceeded.
2A recent WHO multi-country study concluded that four ante-natal care visits are needed to provide an efficient
program - not more as other protocols recommended.
11



Equitv Indicator
* Number of municipalities with three-dose DPT coverage of less than 80%. Coverage targets are
easier to reach by emphasizing the larger municipalities, where most of the population lives. In
Bolivia, many of the poor live in small municipalities. This indicator was chosen to emphasize
attention to the small, harder-to-reach municipalities. The baseline was very high, with 67 percent of
municipalities showing low coverage of immunization. During 1999 and 2000, a huge effort was
made to expand immunization to remote locations and by end-2000, the target for 2001 had been
greatly exceeded, with only 21 percent of municipalities showing low coverage.
Sustainability Indicator
* Financing of vaccines by the borrower. Part of the crisis of the immunization program during the
mid-1990s arose because the Bolivian government ceased to finance the purchase of vaccines. The
Ministry of Finance now recognizes that it needs to finance vaccines to make the program
sustainable. It has added a line item to the national budget to give transparency to this process and it
has created a tax to the social security agency (the Caja Nacional de Salud) earmarked for vaccines.
With a baseline of only US$50,000 and after missing the target for 1999, the government reached its
target for 2000. The budget for 2001 includes the full amount targeted for 2001:US$ 3.5 million for
vaccines.
Institutional Innovations
The second trigger to move from APLI to APL2 was to introduce institutional innovations in the five
areas described below. The conclusion of the assessment is that this trigger was met successfully.
Implementation of Performance Agreements. Annual Performance Agreements (PA), setting targets for
each of the nine Departments of Bolivia have been implemented since 1999. The PAs are signed by the
Minister of Health, the Regional Health Director and, since 2000, by the representatives of the main
donor agencies with projects in the signatory region. In 1999, eight agreements were signed; in 2000 nine
agreements were signed. These PAs set targets for the region, including 10 performance indicators (those
discussed above and two related to the EE) and three process variables related to decentralization and
institutional strengthening. The PAs are evaluated semi-annually by the Ministry of Health.
Basic Health Insurance (Seguro Bdsico de Salud - SBS). The SBS was created by Decree 25265 of Dec
31, 1998, and regulations were issued by Ministerial Resolution No. 0187 of May 7, 1999. The SBS
builds on the National Maternal and Child Insurance program created in 1996. It is a system by which
municipalities set aside 6.4 percent of the tax revenues transferred to them by the central government to
finance 75 priority interventions (to be expanded to 92 in 2001) for the population with no access to
Social Security or private insurance in order to make them free of charge to the user. Participating health
facilities keep records of services provided and present invoices to their corresponding municipality for
reimbursement. Municipalities audit the records of services. The system is regulated by the Ministry of
Health, which establishes the priority interventions to be financed, sets the rate of reimbursement, and
manages the information system. While all 314 municipalities participate in the SBS, there is a concern
about the sustainability of the SBS because participation is voluntary. The government plans to make the
SBS compulsory as part of future legislation concerning decentralization. As continuation of SBS is
crucial for APL2, a legal covenant will be introduced to the Development Credit Agreement allowing the
suspension of disbursements in the event that a significant number of municipalities abandon the system
[Annex 13 describes key features of the SBS].
The Second Generation Expanded Program of Immunization. After the program had successfully reached
coverage levels of over 80 percent for DPT3, solved key bottlenecks in the cold chain in 1999, and
12



controlled a persistent measles outbreak in 2000, vaccines against Haemophilus influenza type b,
Hepatitis-B, mumps and rubella were added to the basic immunization package. The new scheme can
probably be sustained thanks to the aforementioned arrangements by the Finance Ministry to ensure
financing for vaccines .
Investment Mechanisms for the Health Sector. The MAR (Mecanismo de Asignacion de Recursos) was
launched as a new investment scheme focusing on actions to reduce maternal and infant mortality. Its
novel features compared to previous schemes were i) resource allocation was based on a weighted
formula taking into account local human development indices (70 percent) and population (30 percent),
thus prioritizing poorer municipalities; ii) all stakeholders (the community, the health sector and the
municipality) participated in diagnostic assessments and in the definition of local priorities; and iii)
resource allocation was directed not only to strengthening the supply side, but also to subprojects
designed to increase the demand for services.
Treatment Protocols. IMCI is a protocol for the integrated management of illness in children under 5,
developed by WHO and adapted to the Bolivian context by PAHO. The Mother-Baby Package, originally
developed by international institutions for countries with high maternal mortality, improves key aspects
of maternal and newborn care in less developed settings. Both protocols were implemented in the course
of 1999 and 2000 and integrated into the SBS.
Progress in disbursements
While only 30 percent of the credit had been disbursed by May 2001, approximately half of the remaining
funds had been committed, with contracts signed. By July 2001, it is expected that an additional 30
percent of the remaining funds will have been committed. This high level of commitments leaves little
financing available for the new activities planned for APL2. With higher disbursements expected to begin
in July 2001, it is timely to approve APL2, aiming to have it become effective in January 2002. Having
the second phase in place soon may also obviate the delays usually associated with transitions between
government administmtions (2002 will be an election year and the new government will be inaugurated in
August 2003).
Triggers for APL3
In keeping with this APL's emphasis on results, achievement of the performance targets for 2005, listed
in Annex IA, would trigger initiation of the third phase. These triggers were chosen to measure progress
in coverage, quality and equity of health services. Progress in mainstreaming the institutional innovations
promoted by the project would also translate into a set of triggers for the next phase. Thus:
*  Performance Agreements will continue to be signed and monitored for all regions and at least three
large municipalities;
*  The SBS will continue to be utilized as an instrument to finance basic health care for the poor.
Within the framework of decentralization, it will continue to be implemented by municipalities and
regulated by MSPS. Financial controls and audits will have been strengthened.
*  EXTENSA (the National Program for the Expansion of Coverage of the SBS) will have deployed no
less than 150 health teams combining indigenous community agents and health professionals in
underserved locations and financing of the new teams will become absorbed into national budgets in a
fashion consistent with the process of decentralization;
*  The new vaccines would be incorporated into the national schedule of vaccines with nationwide
coverage and would be fully financed by the government; and
*  An equitable system to finance municipal investments in basic health will be put in place, along
with clearly defined financing mechanisms.
13



C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
Indicative           Bank-       % of
Component                Sector        Costs      % of  financing    Bank-
(US$MN)    Total  (US$MN)   financing
1. Coverage and Quality        Institutional     39.3       55.9      7.5       21.4%
improvements of the SBS and     Development
empowerment of Communities
2. Local Capacity to respond to  Institutional    27.9      39.6      24.5      70.0%
health needs of the population  Development
3. Monitoring of Performance    Institutional     3.1        4.4      3.0       8.6%
Indicators and Project Coordination  Development
Total     70.3      100%      35.0      100.0%
Total Project Costs  70.3        --      35.0
Interest during construction
Total Financing Required   70.3      100%      35.0      100%
1. Proiect components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Component I. Coverage and Quality improvements of the SBS and empowerment of Communities
A. Strengthening policy development, regulation and monitoring of the SBS, by supporting:
improvement of the quality of information on the production of services and on the health status
of the population; the development of new policies and the management and supervision of the
SBS; and the implementation of activities that empower indigenous users of the SBS.
B. Strengthening National Health Programs for Mothers and Children, by supporting: the continued
implementation of the Second Generation of the Expanded Program of Immunizations and the
preparation and implementation of multi-donor support programs for IMCI, MBP, Nutrition and
medical waste management at the primary level.
Component HI. Local Capacity to respond to health needs of the population
A. Assignment of health teams to expand the coverage of the SBS, by supporting: the management of
EXTENSA (the National Program for the expansion of coverage of the SBS) including targeting
techniques to assign the new health teams; the financing, training, and light-equipping of health
teams consisting of community workers and itinerant professionals in underserved areas; and
technical assistance to municipalities to implement the new teams;
B. Investment sub-projects to expand the coverage of the SBS; these sub-projects would finance civil
works and equipment required to make an effective use of the new health teams assigned to
currently underserved areas.
Component m. Monitoring of Performance Indicators and Project Coordination
Performance Agreements assigning resources and setting targets for the expansion of coverage will be
signed with regions and selected municipalities and periodically monitored.
14



The main items to be financed under the different components are: IA - technical assistance; IB -
vaccines, technical assistance and inputs for the multi-donor support programs; IIA - health teams'
salaries and bonuses, light equipment for health teams, technical assistance for municipalities; IIB -
subprojects consisting of civil works, equipment and technical assistance.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project will help consolidate decentralization of the health system in Bolivia within a framework of
policy guidance and regulation provided by the Ministry of Health. To this end, the project will assist the
MSPS and selected municipalities with:
> Prioritization of health interventions relevant to the poor, (i) by ensuring financing for the
interventions of the SBS (through the earmarking of municipal expenditures and assuring central
government funds for vaccines and other public health interventions and; (ii) by developing schemes
based on the use of community agents and itinerant health professionals to reach remote and
culturally diverse populations;
> Decentralization in a framework that allows local governments greater flexibility in implementing
national priorities. At the same time, the project will strengthen the Ministry of Health's capacity to
design policies and provide incentives for the implementation of these priorities.
3. Benefits and tareet population
Like Phase I, Phase II of the APL will benefit all Bolivian children under 5 and all mothers using public
health services thanks to the strengthening of the Basic Health Insurance program (SBS). The national
programs sub-component will continue to a) strengthen the Expanded Immunization Program, by
incorporating new vaccines, and b) re-direct current efforts in nutrition to focus on children under 2
throughout the country. Municipal governments will benefit from the strengthening of municipal
networks that will improve their administrative and management capacity in the framework of
decentralization and help them design health projects. The local capacity-boosting component will
increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the health services by reinforcing the decentralization process,
enhancing problem-solving skills at the departmental and district level, and improving information and
financing systems. The main long-term benefits will be improved welfare arising directly and indirectly
from the reduction of mortality and the burden of disease. Benefits would also include more effective use
of public and donor funds.
The focus of the National Program on Coverage Extension on under-served segments of the population
living primarily in poor rural areas with dispersed, indigenous populations and marginal-urban areas will
also help make public spending in the health sector in Bolivia more equitable and, eventually, reduce the
large and growing disparities in health status observed between the rich and the poor in the country. In
Bolivia, close to one hundred municipalities (1/3 of the total) have a population of under 5,000
inhabitants, 50 municipalities have a Human Development Index below 0.350, and 81 percent of the
population in rural areas speak an indigenous language. The target population for the program is 25
percent of the total population (about 2 million people), with a special focus on mothers and children
under 5. This 25 percent of the population would be covered gradually over the four years of the project.
Target communities would benefit from the delivery of the prevention, promotion, treatment and
rehabilitation services included in the Basic Health Insurance program. They will also benefit from the
training of community health promoters and volunteers: a component that will be institutionalized and
given the necessary tools and inputs to enable those trained to perform community health activities.
15



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation period: Four years (APL 2)
Executing agencies: The proposed implementation arrangements are similar to those successfully utilized
in phase I of this APL. The Ministry of Health through the Health Reform Unit (Unidad de Reforma de
Salud - URS) of the General Office of Health Services (Direccidn General de Servicios de Salud -DGSS)
would carry out the project in accordance with an operational manual approved by the Bank. Key
instruments for execution of the project would be: (i) annual operating plans to be used by all
departmental and district level implementing agencies; and (ii) performance agreements committing all
prefectures and selected municipalities to the achievement of agreed upon health results. The Bolivian
Productive and Social Investment Fund (Fondo Productivo y Social-FPS) would execute health
subprojects under a Subsidiary Agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and
FPS on terms and conditions to be approved by the Bank. The immunization and health system
development activities will receive technical assistance from PAHO.
Operational Manual. The project will use an operational manual covering all aspects of project
implementation, including but not limited to: organizational and management structures, supervision and
evaluation mechanisms; targeting and other criteria for resource allocation; eligibility criteria for health
subprojects, and measures to be taken to ensure that the environment will not be negatively affected;
procedures for the formulation of annual implementation plans; financial, accounting and auditing
procedures; disbursement and procurement procedures and standard bidding documents; and a menu of
eligible investments. The subsidiary agreement to be signed with the FPS will require it to utilize the
operations manual.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. This project is using a performance-driven DCA similar to
the one piloted during phase I of this project. The agreement is strict in the achievement of targets in the
eight performance criteria of Annex l(a). In order to convey the message about the need to obtain results,
the MSPS will sign and monitor performance agreements focusing on the performance criteria with
prefectures and selected municipalities. The MSPS will be responsible for project monitoring. Progress
reports, including monitoring indicators, will be sent by the MSPS to the Bank every six months.
Impact Evaluation. Project outputs (including the performance indicators of Annex I a) will be monitored
using SNIS data. Project outcomes, including the evolution of IMR and MMR will be evaluated by
comparing the results of the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) of 1998 with the results from the
census of 2001 and the DHS of 2002. These data will largely provide an evaluation of the results of
Phase I of the APL. Phase 2 outcomes will be evaluated on the basis of a DHS survey to be carried out
in 2005.
Procurement
The procurement of works, goods and consultant services will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (dated January 1995, revised January and August, 1996, September
1997 and January, 1999), and the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997,
revised September 1997), as well as by the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement. These
procedures are detailed in Table A of Annex 6. The supervision of procurement and hiring processes will
be the responsibility of the MSPS and the FPS (in the case of the health subprojects), for all resources
transferred under its administration. The specific procedures will be detailed in the Operational Manual
and include the use of Standard Bidding Documents.
16



Financial Management
A Financial Management Assessment performed in the URS determined that the unit has in place
accounting and internal control systems, that accord with accounting standards that reliably record and
report all assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the project; and that provide sufficient information
for managing and monitoring project activities. Although a 4-A certificate (Eligible for PMR-
Disbursements) has been issued for URS, the Project is still disbursing under traditional disbursement
procedures (SOEs) until transition is agreed on with the Bank. During APLI, the URS complied with the
financial covenants of the Credit 3244-BO and presented annual financial and external audit reports
acceptable to the Bank, no serious internal control observations have been reported.
The FIS was the implementing agency for the sub-project component. It was also assessed favorably in
the first phase of the APL but, given the poor audit results of the FIS and its conversion into the new
social investment fund known as the FPS, a financial management assessment was performed to update
the Bank's knowledge of its predecessor (FIS) and an action plan agreed (the action plan is included in
Annex 6). A 4-B certificate has been issued for FPS.
Financial Reporting.: Both implementing agencies will present annual financial statements with an
external audit report acceptable to the Bank, and in the case of the FPS entity financial statements and
audit are required . The financial statements will be prepared in accordance with the Guidelines and TORs
for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in LAC
The URS and the FPS will develop the capacity and present to the Bank on a quarterly basis Project
Monitoring Reports ( PMRs) comprising project financial reports, project progress reports and project
procurement reports. The models for the PMRs are presented in the Project Financial Management
Manual ( Exposure Draft February 1999) and were agreed to by the implementing agencies. The reports
comprise the following:
Financial Report
1-A Project Sources and Uses of Funds
1-B Uses of Funds by Project Activity
1-C Project Balance Sheet ( where accrual accounting is used)
I -D Project Cash Withdrawals
1 -E Special Account Statement
1-F Project Cash Forecast
Project Progress Report
2-A Output Monitoring Report ( Contract Management)
Procurement Management Report
3-A Procurement Process Monitoring ( Goods and Works)
3-B Procurement Process Monitoring ( Consultant' Services)
3-C Contract Expenditure Report ( Goods and Works)
3-D Contract Expenditure Report ( Consultants' Services)
Audit Arrangements. Independent external auditing firms, satisfactory to the Bank, will be hired to carry
out annual audits of the. project (both the URS and FPS). Bank Guidelines, will be used by external
auditors. Audit reports will be presented to the Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the
17



previous fiscal year.  Both implementing agencies will have auditors appointed before project
effectiveness. Auditing fees for the Ministry of Health Component are incremental expenses and are
included in Category of Consulting Services in the DCA. No provision is made for financing project or
entity audits of the FPS.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for reiection
> Postponing the second phase in order to prepare it with the future administration. This option was
rejected (i) because the high priority attached by the PRSP to the activities supported by this project
suggest that they enjoy widespread support across the political spectrum; and (ii) to reduce the risk of
delays during the change of government, which could interrupt activities, such as immunizations
which require continuity.
> Piloting the new model of health delivery before launching it as a National Program. There have
been many NGO-supported projects implementing "family and community health" models at a small
scale -- many of these have had local success and provided useful lessons. However, international
experience shows that a second generation challenge for governments is taking those local
experiences to scale. Taking successful pilot projects to scale requires confronting problems of large-
scale management, monitoring, contracting, political patronage and availability of health personnel.
EXTENSA would be implemented through a process of measured growth, allowing it to learn as it
expands, but it would not begin as a "pilot project".
>  Focusing APL2 in hospital-level maternal interventions.  Obstetric services in hospitals need
substantial improvements to become able to provide comprehensive essential obstetric care (cEOC).
The government struggled with three options: (i) Expand the SBS on an "extensive margin" by
focusing APL2 on assigning resources to underserved locations; (ii) expand SBS on an "intensive
margin" by focusing on hospital obstetric services; and (iii) attempt to do both things simultaneously.
The first option was chosen as the route to have the greatest impact on child mortality and poverty in
the short-run, despite the need to deal with peri-natal mortality issues (which would require
investments in hospitals). The third option was not chosen to avoid overburdening the local capacity
for project implementation. Investments in cEOC would become a central activity of APL3.
18



2. Maior related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
oniyoin2r and planned)
I Latest Supervision (Form
Largest Projects                     Project                                590)
Ratings
(Bank-fina ced projects only)
Bank-financed      *  Integrated Health Development (PROISS) - Cr.    S              S
2092 (Closed Dec. 1998)
.  Integrated Child Development Project (PIDI) Cr.  S            s
2531 US$ 30mn (Closes Dec. 2001)
.  Rural Water and Sanitation Project              s             s
(PROSABAR) - Cr. 2806 US$20 (closes June
2001)
* Equity and Quality Education Strengthening
Project US$75 (closes Dec. 2002)               S             S
. Decentralized Energy, Information and
Communications Technology for Rural
Transformation (in preparation)
Other Agencies
IADB               .  PSF (Basic services and institutional
strengthening program) US$44mn (closed June
2001)
. PROAGUAS - (Basic Sanitation Small
Municipalities) US$55mn - in execution
*  Escudo Epidemiol6gico y Apoyo a la Reforma de
Salud - Endemic Disease Project). Total of
US$45mn Execution has been very slow since it
began in 1999.
USAID              .  PROSIN - Integrated Health Project. US$39mn.
Provides mother and child services mainly
through NGOs
Holland            *  Essential Medicines Program - US$Omn - 70%
executed.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Of the 86 existing health-related projects with external financing, only those larger than US$10 million
are included in the above table. Other important activities in the sector are being financed by DFID,
JICA, Canada, GTZ, Belgium, and various UN agencies. In the context of the CDF, there has been an
increased effort to coordinate these numerous projects. In preparation for the 2000 CG and also within
the CDF framework, several sector ministries, with the support of international cooperation agencies,
have attempted to prepare public investment "organizational matrices," or tables showing bilateral and
multilateral investments for each strategic objective and key activity in their sector. The idea is to
construct a map of existing funding, relate it to the Government's sectoral strategies, and then proceed to
rationalize investments by shifting financing from where there has been too much to where there is too
little. The Ministry of Health has been using this organizational matrix as a guide to where new
resources should be assigned. The investments planned in the second phase of the Health Reform
Program address the financing gaps shown in the matrix. Only 2.2 percent of external resources are
19



currently assigned to local capacity-building despite the current effort to decentralize health management,
and only eight percent of total investment goes to health promotion. The second phase of the APL
focuses specifically on strengthening local capacity, by supporting the SBS at the local level and by
increasing community based health promotion activities. This is not only consistent with the needs
identified in the planning matrix, but also with the results of "National Dialogue 2000."
In addition to financing insufficiently supported priority areas, APL2 aims to continue APLI's efforts to
improve donor coordination. APLI 's support to the SBS had a catalytic role in the sector by providing a
common policy framework within which most mother and child care projects now operate. Coordination
has also significantly improved in the area of immunizations as donors now support a medium-term
program (developed in preparation for APLI), instead of providing isolated emergency support for the
purchase of vaccines. IMCI and MBP protocols received support from APLI and today constitute the
chief focus of inter-donor coordination committees. APL2 will continue along these lines and aims to
help the Government redirect donor funds into priority areas by: (i) supporting EXTENSA, which the
Government wants to promote as a multi-donor effort, and participating in the development of multi-
donor plans of action for four priority areas that now suffer from some duplication of effort: IMCI, MBP,
Nutrition and medical waste management.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
The project design reflects lessons learned from international interventions in countries with high
mortality rates and from the Bank's experience with the Bolivian health sector.
International lessons on expanding coverage
During the 1990s, Brazil, Mexico, and Peru successfully launched programs to expand coverage of basic
health care to their poor population in peri-urban and in rural areas. The largest is Brazil's Family Health
Program, which expanded coverage to 36 million people in 4,500 municipalities using 10,000 Family
Health Teams and plans to reach 70 million people by 2002. Mexico's Program for the Expansion of
Coverage reached 8 million people in 874 municipalities and employed 15,000 health workers in 2000.
Peru's Basic Health for All deployed 12,000 health workers in remote locations. World Bank loans
support these programs in Mexico and Peru, and a new loan will support the Brazil Program. While each
of these programs has features of its own, they share three crucial features. First, the three programs were
national government initiatives. Each of these countries had piloted ways to deliver primary care in
underserved areas with support from NGOs. These pilots had been useful to test delivery systems, but
had only reached a national scale after being developed as government programs.  Second, the three
programs use community agents of one kind or another. In Brazil, where this is most developed, the
agents are hired from the community where they will work and reside and are paid a minimum salary. In
these programs, agents do not substitute for health professionals as they did in traditional Latin American
projects. Instead they work in teams with the professionals, bridging cultural differences, emphasizing
prevention, and organizing demand in such a way as to optimize the use of carefully programmed visits
by itinerant professionals. Third, all three countries designed their programs using methods of recruitment
of new health workers that obviated rigid civil service requirements. The three countries pay workers in
these programs better than many civil servants by adding a significant premium to assignments in difficult
locations and they use short-term contracts that can be extended  in return for meeting performance
criteria. This combination was needed to avoid the common problem of staff recently hired for difficult
locations moving into hospital locations soon after obtaining job stability. Mexico and Brazil have now
decentralized these workers. In Mexico, the states have signed coordination agreements guaranteeing
continuity of the program for at least 10 years. In Brazil, the Federal Government transfers special funds
for this program to participating municipalities.
20



Lessons Learned in APLI
The project design builds upon the experience of APLI. Key lessons incorporated into the project design
are:
*  Developing a results-oriented culture: This requires the use of a limited number of clearly
defined indicators with realistic targets. Indicators need to be few to avoid a loss of focus. They
need to be monitored using a consistent methodology and they need to be available in a periodic
basis to allow monitoring and the implementation of corrective actions.
*  Use of Incentives. Reaching targets requires providing incentives for local actors. APLI made
local authorities accountable by requiring them to specific targets specified in the Performance
Agreements. It used the SBS to provide "market" incentives for providers and for users to reach
the targets.
*  Taking into account the cultural barriers created by ethnic diversity. Cultural diversity remains
the greatest challenge for improved health of the poor in Bolivia. APLI began to bridge the
cultural barrier with the use of the activities described in annex 12. These activities need to be
developed in greater depth to succeed in overcoming the cultural barrier.
*  Developing Partnerships. The immunization program was successfully revamped thanks to a
strong partnership established between the Bank and PAHO. PAHO provided technical support
for the government and the Bank emphasized the financial and institutional aspects. This
partnership was sustained during the whole period of project preparation and implementation of
APLI. Similar efforts are needed in other areas.
*  Limited Capacity. APLI focused on a few priority activities and emphasized capacity
development. This allowed to avoid overburdening the limited capacity of participating
institutions (MSPS, municipalities, districts) and simultaneously created capacity for a slightly
more ambitious agenda to be developed under APL2.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
*  The Government has successfully met the triggers for APL2 (see section B4)
*  The MoF presented a Sector Policy Letter restating its interest in this project as part and parcel of the
PRSP (see Annex I 1). The letter also states the MoFs commitment to financing of vaccines and of
EXTENSA.
*  The Government has attached high priority to this project in the context of the CAS discussions;
*  All municipalities are participating in the SBS and all regions are signing performance agreements
reflecting the objectives of the program;
*  The MSPS has put together a strong team of counterparts for implementation of this project.
5. Value-added of Bank support in this pro ject
*  Strengthening coordination of interventions across sectors and ensuring a holistic view of health
status development based on results;
*  Ability to leverage project results in the overall development objectives;
*  Networking and knowledge management capabilities to learn from other countries undergoing similar
processes and other sectors of the Bolivian economy;
*  Mobilization of high-quality technical assistance for institutional improvements;
*  Ability to mobilize resources and encourage donor coordination.
21



E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
1. Economic (see Annex 4a)
Net present value (NPV): US$85,000       Internal Rate of Return: IRR 10%
Phase 11 of the Health Reform Program in Bolivia is expected to contribute to improve the health status of
about 300,00 children below age 5 in Bolivia's poorest areas. The project is expected to save
approximately 12,500 deaths between 2002 and 2005. While there is expected to be some reduction in
maternal mortality, the absolute number of deaths averted is small (maternal mortality being a rare event).
The NPV of the investment is about US$85,000 and its IRR 10%, figures which indicate that the project
would pay back the investments over the four years period of the loan. Results of Monte Carlo
simulations indicate that the expected positive results of the project are robust to different of assumptions
of project impact.
In addition, the focus of the project on basic health care services for under-served populations and among
them the special emphasis on indigenous populations living in rural areas and selected marginal-urban
areas will improve the equity of government spending in the health sector and ultimately contribute to
reduce the large differences in health status between the poor and non-poor in Bolivia.
2. Financial (see Annex 4b)
Public health expenditure in Bolivia totals less than I percent of GDP, compared with a Latin American
average of 3-4 percent. Over the medium run, the project and the policies supported by it will increase
public expenditure in this area by 0.1 to 0.2 percent of GDP. Increased public expenditure will be
incurred under four main headings: (i) Vaccines. The project will continue to rebuild the immunizations
program and the Treasury will continue to increase its participation in financing up to US$5.5 million by
2005. That amount is expected to be maintained over time, and to suffice for the purchase of all needed
vaccines; (ii) Human resources for remote locations. The project will annually allocate up to US$4.2
million by 2004 to finance the hiring of new health teams and the Government will increasingly absorb
these costs and raise them to US$5 million in 2006; (iii) SBS. Municipalities finance these outlays. They
spent an estimated US$8.1 million in 2001 and are expected to increase expenditure on SBS to around
US$12 million by 2005 and US$14 million by 2008; (iv) Operations and Maintenance of subprojects.
These outlays depend on funds from municipalities, departments, and communities. Funding from
municipalities is included in the SBS, and is enforceable through the requirement that all municipalities
receiving subprojects sign an agreement with the Treasury requesting that a larger fraction of transfers be
earmarked for health (and deposited in a health-only account). Funds from regional governments are less
likely to be available and have not been included in the estimation.
The estimates are presented in Annex 4b and are based on the projections for the growth of GDP and of
fiscal expenditure used in the PRSP. Project activities are found to have a small and manageable
fiscal impact, while total public health ratios remain low in comparison with other Latin American
countries.
* Central Government expenditure on health remains fairly constant as a fraction of GDP and increases
only slightly (by about one percentage point) as a fraction of central government expenditure;
* Total government expenditure (including municipal expenditure) on health remains fairly constant as
a fraction of GDP;
* Municipal spending on health grows as a fraction of total government spending on health.
22



3. Technical
The appropriateness of (i) the protocols for mother and child care; (ii) the coverage and payment
mechanisms of the SBS; and (iii) the proposed logistics of the immunization program were analyzed and
found to be satisfactory. Details can be found in the project files.
4. Institutional
Significant project management capacity has been developed during the first phase of the APL. Project
management capacity is strong at the central level and variable at the departmental and municipal levels.
Local planning and management capacity will be strengthened as needed. Technical assistance will be
provided to strengthen the capacity of departments, municipalities, and communities to absorb new health
teams and to prepare, appraise, and supervise subprojects. Institutional capacity is better than in 1998 in
relation to the proposed work program in the EPI, but continues to require special support. PAHO will
provide technical assistance in the form of five long-term consultants.
5. Social (see Annex 12)
Bolivia has significant ethnic and cultural diversity, with 57 percent of the population belonging to
Quechua, Aymara and other smaller native groups in 1999. While there is no specific information about
the coverage of health services to indigenous groups, they are known to be a large part of the population
without basic health services. Because most of the non-native population (43 percent) already had access
to services prior to the recent expansion of coverage achieved by the SBS, it is likely that most of this
expansion has been among the native population.  Despite this, a key challenge of the health service
remains to increase coverage to the indigenous populations. APLI made significant efforts to achieve this
aim, including: (i) incorporating the results of anthropological studies in the SBS health care protocols
(including traditional drugs at the primary level of care); (ii) formalizing agreements with two of the
largest indigenous organizations to implement the SBS in indigenous areas with monitoring by an
indigenous health committee, financing the establishment of pharmaceutical funds, purchasing
motorboats, training indigenous health workers as nursing auxiliaries, and granting civil service posts for
indigenous staff trained as auxiliary nurses; (iii) supporting the Willaqkuna project, which combines
occidental and traditional medicine and has assigned Willaqkuna representatives to supervise matemity
services in 10 hospitals; (iv) developing the Pregnant Women 's Bill of Rights based on focal groups that
included indigenous women; and (v) implementing user satisfaction surveys in 40 urban hospitals.
APL2 will continue these efforts and engage in new activities in four key areas: (i) formally incorporating
communal agents as members of health teams; (ii) implementing the practice of having health
professionals co-sign the Pregnant Women's Bill of Rights with pregnant women during their first pre-
natal consultation, (iii) training the newly created Health Advocates to be community representatives for
health issues in various government bodies; and (iv) expanding the use of user satisfaction surveys to
rural hospitals and to the first level of care and introducing questions to link satisfaction to ethnic
background.
6. Environmental (see Annex 15)
Environmental category:            A      [X]   B              C
A review of medical waste management was prepared by PAHO as part of the preparations for APL2. It
found that there are serious problems in medical waste management in hospitals but that important
progress is being made at the primary care level -- partly as a result of interventions of APL I. At the
hospital level, waste management practices are deficient. The MSPS is attempting to improve this
situation with new legislation, and some of the larger municipalities are undertaking projects for their
main hospitals, but much more will need to be done.
This APL focuses on  first and second level health establishments, and substantial progress has been
23



achieved at those levels. Specifically, the activities financed by Phase I of the loan in support of the
Expanded Program of Immunization have improved medical waste management. The introduction of
combined vaccines (pentavalent) has reduced medical waste and the issuing of biosecurity norms and
training has benefited not just EPI practices, but also other practices at the postlcenter level. Safe
containers for waste management are now widely available.
The review recommended that the efforts of APLI be sustained, with continued implementation of the
waste management activities of Phase I, and that new activities be introduced, including the development
of medical waste guides and manuals for the Basic Health Insurance program for use in posts/centers,
training, and supervision. These activities will be implemented as part of component I of APL2.
Additionally, component I will also contribute to the preparation of a multi-donor action plan for medical
waste at the primary level and will contribute to financing part of the costs of that plan.
7. Participatory Approach (see Annex 12)
Primary beneficiaries have been consulted through focus groups and through satisfaction surveys of
indigenous women in areas of high child mortality. These instruments will be used annually to monitor
satisfaction with the services supported by the project. Communities, municipalities, departments,
donors, and NGOs have also been consulted in numerous meetings (around 20 in La Paz and participating
departments) at which the objectives and proposed procedures of the project were discussed. A municipal
constraints assessment carried out in fifteen municipalities analyzed the problems with nutrition programs
with beneficiaries, service providers and local leaders. It is on the basis of this local analysis that the
community based promotion of healthy growth and development has been designed. For more details,
see Annex 12.
8. Financial Management (see Annex 6)
A Financial Management Assessment performed in the URS within the Ministry of Health for the first
phase of the Project determined that the unit has in place accounting and internal control systems that
accord with accounting standards that reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial
transactions of the project; and provide sufficient information for managing and monitoring project
activities. The project unit (URS) has complied with the financial covenants of the Credit 3244-BO and
presented annual financial and external audit reports acceptable to the Bank, no serious internal control
observations were reported.
The FIS was the implementing agency for the other components and it was also assessed favorably in the
first phase of the APL but the 1999 project and entity audits which were presented to the Bank in
December 2000 contained serious qualifications arising from weaknesses in the internal control. FIS
undertook a special review by Arthur Anderson to identify all weaknesses and hired PriceWaterhouse
Coopers to prepare all reconciliations and adjusting entries which led to the successful resolution of the
major audit qualifications and the timely and reliable closing of the 2000 project accounts. The FIS was
absorbed by a new social investment fund known as the FPS, the procedures and systems of the FIS
remain in place so a financial management assessment was performned to update the Bank's knowledge of
these and the action agreed which is presented in Annex 6 to the PAD.
The flow of funds will, in the case of the URS, be direct to a Special Account and from there to dedicated
fiscal or operating account in local currency for immediate disbursement to suppliers. Where the suppliers
are contracted by the regional offices these will operate from advances made by the URS under
arrangements for full documentation of the advances to be made to the central unit within the same month
of the advance, it is on the basis of this documentation that charges will be made to the project expense
24



accounts and reported to the Bank. In the case of the FPS, the flow of funds will also be made direct to a
Special Account and transferred from this to a dedicated fiscal account for disbursement in local currency
to suppliers. These accounts will operate from the central offices and disbursements will be effected on
behalf of the regional offices on the basis of prior presentation of full documentation and request for
payment to a specified supplier. Any funds advanced to municipalities, as proposed under the
deconcentration, will be booked as advances until full documentation is presented.
While the implementing units require full documentation prior to booking of sub-project expenditures or
sub-components expenditures to the project expenses there is no significant financial management risks,
changes to these arrangements which may be implied with the decentralization will be reviewed closely
by the Bank.
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability
The health program contains several components with significant recurrent cost implications. One is the
Basic Health Insurance program (Seguro Basico de Salud -SBS), which is financed by the municipalities.
Continued financing of SBS by municipalities is a necessary condition for success of the Health Sector
Reform Program. The SBS recently celebrated its second anniversary and is widely considered one of
the most successful programs of this government. Considering the high regard with which this program is
held and the fact that with enhanced HIPC resources municipalities are likely to receive approximately
50 percent more funds over the next 15 years than they are receiving today , continued financing for the
SBS is likely. However, participation in this program by municipalities is voluntary. Hence, a legal
covenant is included in APL2 allowing the Bank to suspend disbursements in the event that this practice
is discontinued by municipalities covering over 20% of the population. The government plans to make
participation in SBS compulsory in future legislation concerning decentralization.
A second component with recurrent cost implications is the program designed to expand coverage of the
SBS. This program requires financing for the salaries of community health agents and doctors. The
estimated annual cost is in the range of US$5 million to US$10 million, depending on the targets set for
the program. Exactly who will assume the recurrent costs of this program is currently a pending issue, as
the question of the timing of the transfer of responsibility of management of human resources from the
national level to the municipalities is under discussion. There are several options here that will be
discussed over the course of the second phase. One option would be to continue considering the program
a national program and finance it from the national treasury. As public health expenditure in Bolivia is
very low (around one percent of GDP), compared to a Latin American Average of 3-4 percent, there
would appear to be scope to absorb the additional costs. A second option would be to pass the
responsibility on to the municipalities. This may be risky as the experience with decentralization in other
countries has shown that local governments sometimes underinvest in health and education and
overinvest in highly visible physical infrastructure. However, the decentralized system of fiscal transfers
in Bolivia includes a set of conditional transfers from the national governments to municipal governments
to finance projects selected by local governments from a menu of options presented to them. These
transfers, managed by the Directorio Unico de Fondos, are attractive to the municipalities since they do
not have to pay the full cost of the investment. It would be possible to restrict access to these additional
resources to those municipalities that have maintained minimal coverage levels of health and education,
financed out of their own funds. This possibility would have to be discussed during implementation. A
third option might be to create a trust fund from international donor funds that would invest in Bolivia in
much the same way as the pension funds operate. The interest from the trust funds could be used to pay
the recurrent costs of this program to extend services to the poor. At present, there are approximately
25



$265 million of donor commitments undisbursed across some 65 different projects. The Ministry does
not have the capacity to make use of all these resources immediately. If half of the undisbursed
commitments could be reassigned to the trust fund, this would be sufficient to guarantee the financing of
the recurrent costs. Again, the pros and cons of this approach would have to be weighed against the
alternatives in the course of implementation. Ensuring sustainability of this program is a trigger for the
Bank to approve APL3.
A  third component is  immunization.  This would be financed as a national program  and the
Government's development policy letter agreed to finance the recurrent costs of the immunization
program with National Treasury funds.
Apart from the information system, the other components of the project dealing with the strengthening of
SBS management involve more investment costs than recurrent costs. They would be fully financed by
combining resources from the World Bank, the Government and other donors.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risks                         Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Steps
Deterioration of the macroeconomic and political      M           The PRSP initiative and agreements with the
situation that could compromise resources for the                 IMF and the CAS provide a strong incentive to
sector or decrease the government's presence in the               maintain macroeconomic policies and dedicate
sector,                                                          resources to the sector.
Insufficient coordination among Bolivian              H           Development of a strong partnership between
institutions to achieve a holistic approach to health             reformers in the Bolivian Government, Bank,
status development.                                               and other donors.
National Government abandons its policy to finance    M           Include sustainability of these interventions in
EPI and/or EXTENSA. Municipalities abandon                       the Bank's dialogue concerning PRSP and in
the policy of automatically earmarking funds to                  related credits.
SBS
Weak capacity of EPI.                                 M           Emphasize the need to maintain the newly
formed team.
Maintain efforts of donor coordination.
Technical assistance from PAHO is formally
committed for the next 4 years.
Health Sector donors do not join in support of the    H           The Bank's dialogue on human resource issues
policies of EXTENSA                                               promotes these policies, partly by disseminating
similar international experiences
Lack of active participation by municipalities in     H           Be proactive with technical assistance for
project management.                                               municipalities and emphasize the use of PAs
The new government does not attach priority to the    M           Dialogue under the PRSP likely to maintain the
objectives and policies supported by the credit.                  high profile currently attained by the objectives
and policies supported by the credit.
High rotation of key personnel in the Ministry and    S           Maintain dialogue to minimize the rotation of
the PCU.                                                          Ministry personnel and to maintain high
technical standards for staffing of URS.
TOTAL RISK                                           M/S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
26



G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness conditions
(i) Adoption of an operational manual acceptable to the International Development Association; and (ii)
publication of a Supreme Decree establishing EXTENSA.
2. Condition of disbursements for components executed by the FPS
(i) Adoption by the FPS of an operational manual, acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) signing of a Subsidiary
Agreement acceptable to the Bank between the Ministry of Finance, MSPS and FPS.
3. Event of Suspension
* The Bank may suspend disbursements if the borrower suspends the automatic earmarking of SBS
to municipalities covering 25% of the population or more.
* The Development Credit Agreement specifies that this project will be monitored using the
performance indicators of Annex IA, and that if three or more of the eight indicators miss their
annual targets, the Bank and the Government shall determine remedial measures, and that the
Bank would have the right to stop further disbursements.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
1. (a) The engineering documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation
X (b) Not Applicable
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The project implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality
X 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (section G):
(a)    Adoption of operational manuals by FPS and MSPS; and
(b)    Publication of a Supreme Decree establishing EXTENSA.
27



I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
The project complies with all r,elevant Bank policies.
C  L.
Task Team Leader,  niel Cotlear, LCSHD
h~~~~~
Sector De    r, Xavier Coll, LCSHD
Country Director, Isabel Guerrero,   6C
28



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Narrative Summary        Proposed Targets and Key         Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
I. Sector-related targets:    *  Accelerated reduction in the  DHS               *  Macroeconomic
*  Poverty alleviation, as   infant mortality rate                                   stability.
measured by                                                                   *  Continuity and
improvements in health                                                           consistency in the
outcomes                                                                         development of health
policy-
II. Program Development  *  Infant mortality rate reduced  DHS                   *  Allocation of sufficient
Objectives. (1998- 2008):    from 67 per 1,000 live births                           resources from national
*  Accelerated reduction     in 1997 to 48 per 1,000 live   National Census 2001     and municipal
of infant mortality rates  births by the end of the                               governnents;
program (2008)                                     *   Establishment of
National Program for
Coverage Extension
(EXTENSA)
*  Investment rate in
water, sanitation and
education does not
decrease
Project Development       *  Coverage of institutional  SNIS                     *  Government interest in
Objectives (FY2001-           births attended by trained                             the health sector reform
FY2005)                       health personnel increased                             is maintained after the
(see targets, definitions and   *  Retention of pregnant  SNIS                       change of government
baseline in Annex 1(a))       women in prenatal control                          *  Effective coordination
increased                                             in technical assistance
*  Early neonatal hospital    SNIS                        and cofinancing,
mortality reduced                                      especially of the EPI
*  Number of cases of         SNIS                     *  Health personnel adopts
pneumonia attended in                                  model requirements
service increased                                  *  Other stakeholders
*  % < 7 years with 3 iron    SNIS                        accept the new strategy
doses increased                                       to expand SBS
*  Coverage of pentavalent
vaccine
*  Number of municipalities
with pentavalent vaccine  SNIS
coverage of less than 80%
reduced                   SNIS
*  Domestic financing of
vaccines increased
*  Continued use of automatic
earmarking of funds for SBS  MoF --Review of budget
by municipalities         execution
MoF - Treasury report
29



Narrative Summary        Proposed Targets and Key         Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
IV. Results of Phase II   *  Improved estimates of       SNIS                    * Correct incentives are in
of the project (2002-         health indicators available                        place
2005)                         regularly                 DGSS records
1. Coverage and quality   *  Financial audits of SBS                             . Human resources are
improvements of the health   available regularly        DGSS records             available in a timely manner
services and empowerment  *  SBS funds fully executed in
of communities               70% of municipalities      DGSS records             * Medium to high
*  Priority innovations for SBS                        commitment of
1. A. Strengthening of the   designed                   DGSS records             municipalities
Basic Health Insurance    *  Publication of protocols for
program                       SBS interventions         DGSS records             * The project successfully
- Information systems     *  Percentage of districts and                         reaches out to indigenous
- Administration of the SBS   municipalities that carry out                      communities
- Supervision of the quality  a CAI each semester       DGSS records
of SBS activities         a  Accreditation and licensing
- Community Empowerment       of primary providers
implemented               DGSS records
*  Number of Pregnant
Women's Bill of Rights
signed                    DGSS records
*  Number of Defense
Advocates trained
1. B. National Programs   *  Share of suspect measles   Surveillance             *  National funding
cases with adequate blood                              continues to increase
.  EPI 11                    sample >80%                                         *  Multi-donor
*  AFP rate for < 5 year      Surveillance                 cooperation continues
1/100,000                                              to improve
*  EPI's logistical software  EPI's records
implemented in 80% of
localities
*  Multi-donor programs       DGSS records
produced and monitored for
*  IMCI, MBP, Nutrition,      nutrition activities, IMCI
medical waste              and medical waste
management                 management                DGSS records
*  60 % of community agents
trained and supervision
activities carried out at mid
term, including pathological
residues and nutritional
practices
11. Local capacity to    *  Targeting completed        DGSS records             Adequate support and
respond to health needs of   *  At least 80% of TA requests  DGSS records       capacity building at local
the population               for identified municipalities                      level
completed                                          EXTENSA is endorsed by
11. A. National Program of  *  Investment needs for    DGSS records             municipalities
Coverage Extension           identified municipalities
completed
*   100% of programmed        DGSS records
I    municipalities provided with I
30



Narrative Summary        Proposed Targets and Key          Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
resources, training, support.
and monitored
*  Percentage of SEDES and    DGSS records
districts included in
EXTENSA that carry out a
CAI each semester >80%
11. B. Investment        *  Percentage of municipalities  DGSS records            Increased speed of
subprojects to expand the    included in EXTENSA                                  investment approval and
coverage of the SBS          presenting FPS projects                              execution mechanisms
>40%
*  Percentage of FPS           FPS records
subprojects completed
within projected time > 50%
III. Project Coordination  *  Percentage of SEDES that    DGSS records            Interest by sub national
and Performance              sign performance                                     parties
Agreements                    agreements with MSPS
=100%
*  Percentage of Districts
included in EXTENSA that
sign performance
agreements with SEDES
=100%
*  At least 80% of SEDES
with a PA show compliance
rate higher than 80%
*  At least 80% of districts
with a PA compliance show
rate higher than 80%
V. Project Components
and Subcomponents:
I. Increase the coverage and      US$ 7.5 million         Progress Report
quality of health service                                 Disbursement Report
networks, and empowerment
of communities.
*  Strengthening the Basic
Health Insurance
*  National Programs
II. Strengthen local capacity
to respond to health              US$ 24.5 million        Progress Report
necessities                                               Disbursement Report
*  National Program of
Coverage Expansion)
*  Municipal Investments
for infrastructure
related to NPCE
improvement
111. Project Coordination          US$ 3 million          Progress Report
and Performance                                       Disbursement Report
Agreements
31



Annex l(a): Project Design Summary
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Performance Benchmarks
As in Phase I, the project's success in meeting its objectives will be based on achievement of the
performance benchmarks described below. It is expected that some of these benchmarks will not be
reached in any given year. During negotiations it was agreed that the project would be considered
successful if for the year under review at least five of the eight indicators reach their target. If they do
not, the Bank and the Government would need to decide on the corrective actions required and the Bank
would have the right to suspend disbursements.
Performance Indicators                 Baseline               Performance Benchmarks
2000        2001      2002      2003     2004      2005
Observed   Projected*
I . Coverage of births attended by trained  52 %    54%        54%       58%      61%      65%
health personnel
2. Complete prenatal care attendance    33 %         38%        54%      58%      61%       65%
3. Early neonatal hospital mortality (per  8          8          8        8         8        8
1,000 live births)
4. Number of pneumonia cases attended  112,000     116,000    122,000  127,000  131,000  135,000
in health services
5. % of children < 7 years with 30 iron  0-2 %      2-5%        10%      15%      25%       35%
doses
6. DPT/HIB/Hepatitis B vaccine          65 %         75%        85 %     87 %     90 %      90 %
coverage with 30 doses
7. Number of municipalities with         72**        119         83       70       50        25
DPT/HIB/Hepatitis B vaccine
coverage less than 80%
8. National financing of vaccines (million  3.9      3.5         4       4.5        5       5.5
of $)                                                    I                           I
* Notice that the projected value of most performance indicators for 2001 exceed target values fixed in Phase I
**Number of municipalities with DPT3 vaccine coverage of less than 80%
Complementary Provisions
1.     Scope: The coverage for all indicators is nationwide, except for Indicator 3 which refers to the 10
hospitals with the greatest number of births..
2.     Source and methodolog. The source for all indicators is the SNIS except for Indicator 8, for
which the source is the Ministry of Finance's executed budget. In Indicator 6 the HIB vaccine was
introduced in July 2000. For the next years of the project, only the Pentavalent vaccine rate will be used
. In indicator 7, the number of municipalities for the year 2000 (72) is for DPT vaccine. For subsequent
years it will be replaced by the number of municipalities with pentavalent vaccine coverage of less than
80 percent.
3.     Adiustment to Baseline Data: The performance benchmarks are calculated on the basis of
32



Annex 1(a): Project Design Summary
baseline data for 2000. If at a future date the Borrower shows to the satisfaction of the Association that it
is necessary to adjust the baseline data, the corresponding performance benchmarks may be adjusted in
such manner as shall be acceptable to the Association.
4. Definitions:
1.   Coverage of births attended by trained health personnel:
Numerator:   Births attended by trained health personnel.
Denominator: Total number of expected births.
2.   Complete Prenatal Care Attendance:
Numerator:   Number of pregnant women with four prenatal care controls.
Denominator: Number of pregnant women with first prenatal care control.
3.   Early neonatal hospital mortality (per 1,000 live births) in the ten largest public maternities:
Numerator:   Number of deaths during the first seven days of life in the ten largest matemities.
Denominator: Total number of live births reported in the ten largest maternities.
5.   % of children < 2 years with 30 iron doses
Numerator:   Number of children < 2 years with 30 iron doses
Denominator: Total number of children < 2 years
6.   Coverage of third dose of DPT/HIB/Hepatitis B vaccine:
Numerator:   Number of children of less than one year of age who received three doses of
DPT/HIB/Hepatitis B vaccine.
Denominator: Total number of children of less than one year of age.
S.  National financing of vaccines: expenditure on vaccines and syringes financed by the
Borrower from sources other than external grants or loans.
33



Annex 2(a): Project Description
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
To help achieve the targets described in Annex IA, the project will support activities grouped under the
same three components that received support from phase I of this APL:
1. Coverage and quality improvements of the health services and empowerment of communities
II. Strengthening local capacity to respond to health needs; and
III. Monitoring of Performance Indicators and Project Coordination
Component I: Coverage and quality improvements of the health services and empowerment of
communities. (US$ 39.3 million)
Component I would support activities for two areas:
A. Strengthening of the Basic Health Insurance (SBS) program; and
B. Support for national health programs related to mother and child care.
A. Strengthening of the Basic Health Insurance
The performance indicators for this project measure coverage and quality in the implementation of key
SBS interventions. To be successful the SBS requires: (i) better information on the production of services
and the health status of the population; (ii) active management and monitoring of incentives for health
providers; (iii) monitoring of the quality of the services provided, and (iv)more effective empowerment of
the indigenous users of the SBS to overcome the challenges of interculturality. This sub-component
would finance support for information systems, the Administration of the SBS, the implementation of
quality monitoring and activities to empower SBS beneficiaries.
Support for Information Systems. The main source of information on the production of health services in
Bolivia is SNIS (Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n de Salud). After receiving support from several
projects, today, in terms of the presentation and timeliness of its data, SNIS compares favorably with
information systems in other Latin American countries. Despite this achievement, for the purposes of this
project it has two important shortcomings. First, it reports information about the production of services
by health providers, but it does not directly deal with coverage or with outcomes for the population.
Second, the information is not subject to external controls and local administrators have incentives to
exaggerate the effectiveness of the services they are responsible for. This activity would address these
shortcomings by: (i) financing surveys and operational research to measure outcomes, including co-
financing with other donors the Demographic and Health Survey planned for 2002, the implementation of
local surveillance committees for maternal and infant mortality, and the follow-up of mortality cases
identified by the population census planned for 2001; and (ii) financing mechanisms to strengthen the
reliability of SNIS by introducing external controls including cluster surveys, interviews with community
leaders, and certification of in-hospital mortality statistics by user committees.  Outputs of this sub-
component would include: Availability of infant and maternal mortality estimates, produced with a
methodology that allows the determination of trends in mortality and the estimation of mortality rates for
different income groups; and more reliable estimates for the performance indicators of annex lA of this
project.
Support to the Administration of the SBS. The SBS is implemented by the municipalities, which finance
and manage the municipal accounts used to pay for the services covered by the SBS. The MSPS has a
policy-setting and regulatory role vis-a-vis the SBS. The policy-setting role is applied by establishing the
34



Annex 2(a): Project Description
microeconomic incentives for providers, for instance by defining the interventions covered in the SBS
benefit package, the reimbursement rate, and the payment mechanisms used to reimburse the services.
The MSPS is currently considering ways to: induce greater use of high priority interventions (e.g. by
rewarding mothers who complete a pre-natal cycle or attend nutrition-related workshops and by
rewarding providers who successfully retain mothers who complete the pre-natal cycle), develop new
service delivery methods (e.g. itinerant health professionals for rural areas), help small municipalities to
pool resources, create mechanisms for inter-municipal payments (when a hospital in one municipality
serves beneficiaries from another municipality), incorporate providers outside the public sector (such as
NGOs or hospitals in the social security system), and link the SBS with other health insurance schemes.
MSPS's regulatory role over the SBS is exercised by assisting municipalities in the control of the
appropriate and effective use of SBS municipal funds. In recent months there have been a number of
accusations of misuse of SBS funds, mostly because funds have been used to pay interventions not
included in the SBS package, but also because of alleged over-invoicing. At present controls are
conducted manually. A control software is being designed (financed by Phase I of this APL). Once
implemented, the software will not only identify irregularities but also accelerate payment to health
providers by municipalities. [The SBS is described in more detail in Annex 13]. This sub-component
would support these initiatives by: (i) providing technical assistance, studies and small grants for pilots to:
design and monitor new SBS payment mechanisms to induce greater use of priority interventions and the
establishment of new ways to deliver services; the pooling of municipal resources; the development of
mechanisms for intermunicipal; payments, and the expansion of health insurance coverage among the
poor; and (ii) implementing the SBS software and carrying out financial audits of the SBS in selected
municipalities.
The project would finance computers (where needed), training, supervision, and extemal audits. Outputs
of this sub-component would include:
i  Improved payment mechanisms for use by the SBS with incentives for improved applications of
the IMCI, MBP and nutrition protocols; for itinerant professionals; and for referrals;
*  Periodic monitoring reports on SBS disbursements and SBS-financed production of services;
* SBS software implemented in selected municipalities; and
* Financial audits of the SBS in selected municipalities.
Support for supervision of the quality of SBS activities. SBS covers 92 interventions comprising those
recommended by the second generation EPI, IMCI, MBP and the national TB and malaria programs. .
The SBS technical protocols are based on recommended practices of those programs. Additional
protocols are planned in areas related to nutrition, appropriate disposal of medical waste, and other key
areas of the SBS. There are also plans to develop accreditation and licensing procedures for health
providers operating under the SBS. This subcomponent would finance: (i) the development of norms and
procedures related to the appropriate management of nutrition, waste disposal, and other SBS practices;
their publication, and training of key staff in their use; and (ii) the implementation of supervision
activities to ensure compliance with these rules and other safety and ethical practices. Outputs of this
sub-component would include:
* Issuance of protocols for SBS interventions; and
* Implementation of a system for supervising the quality of SBS activities.
Support for community empowerment activities. Ethnic diversity is a significant obstacle for health
care in Bolivia. Annex 12 describes the context, the activities financed by Phase I of this APL and the
activities proposed for Phase 2. This subcomponent would: (i) finance the dissemination of the rights of
indigenous people as users of the health care system. This would include Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) activities and the publication of the Pregnant Women's Bill of Rights (Carta de
Derechos de la Mujer Embarazada) in Aymara, Quechua and Guarani; focus groups of women and health
35



Annex 2(a): Project Description
workers would discuss the local implementation of the Carta and complaint mechanisms would be
established; (ii) train and equip Health Advocates (Defensorias de Salud, i.e.community representatives
who oversee compliance by health providers with the rules of the SBS); (iii) implement and publish user
satisfaction surveys that identify the ethnic background of respondents; and (iv) finance national and
regional meetings of the National Indigenous Health Council. Outputs of this sub-component would
include:
*  Publication, distribution and publicity for the Carta de Derechos de la Mujer Embarazada and
other forms of IEC;
*  Health Advocates trained and established in selected municipalities; and
*  Strengthened dialogue on health policy between government agencies and indigenous
organizations.
B. Support for National Programs for mothers and children
I.Supportfor the Second Generation Expanded Immunization Program (see more details in Annex 14).
During 1996-99, immunization coverage fell due to (a) institutional weaknesses of the country's health
system in general and that of the Expanded Program on Immunization, in particular; (b) insufficient and
inconsistent allocation of funds by the govemment, relying mostly on funds from external cooperation;
and (c) lack of a sustained social communications strategy. Also, Bolivia lagged behind the rest of the
Americas in the incorporation of Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine (HIB), which in other countries
had proved to be a potentially powerful factor in reducing infant mortality. During 1999-2000, with the
support of PAHO, other donor agencies, and Phase I of this APL, the Govemment reversed the downturn
trends by implementing a medium-term immunization plan that introduced the Second Generation
Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI). Immunization coverage with three doses of DPT reached 89
percent in 2000 and the measles outbreak of 1998-2000 is now under control. Key elements during
Phase I of the Project included: agreement with the Ministry of Finance on the need to increase domestic
financing of vaccines f, strengthening the management of the EPI Unit, completing the introduction of
new vaccines (including HIB), consolidating the implementation of rapid response brigades (Brigadas de
Acci6n Rapida - BEAR), and improving the surveillance system. Phase II of this APL will continue
supporting the implementation of the medium-term plan by strengthening: (i) the management capacity of
the EPI Unit in the MSPS, including technical assistance for: activities related to monitoring the
execution of the national budget for vaccines and the use of appropriate procedures for purchases, the
implementation of a logistical management software to track deliveries of inputs and the state of the cold
chain, a study on the effectiveness of EPI's communications strategy in indigenous areas, and the
supervision of practices related to medical waste management; (ii) the introduction of the new vaccines,
including the purchase of vaccines (on a declining basis - see section on sustainability), and purchases of
simple equipment for regional training offices; and (iii) the improvement of information and surveillance
systems, including active institutional and community searches of vaccine preventable diseases and the
implementation of vaccination coverage surveys to verify the quality of administrative reports on
coverage.
2. Support for quality improvements in priority national programs related to the SBS. In recent years,
partly through the efforts of Phase I of this APL, Mother and Child programs have been revamped.
Treatment of children under 5 is now done using Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI)
protocols. The original WHO protocols were adapted to Bolivian needs by PAHO and adopted by the
MSPS. They were also supported by numerous other donors and NGOs that have now have developed
effective systems of institutional coordination. Pregnancy and birth now benefit from the Mother Baby
Package (MBP), as adapted to Bolivian circumstances by MotherCare (a USAID-financed organization)
and other NGOs. Large-scale programs offering training in the appropriate use of IMCI and MBP are
currently under way, and the MSPS is launching an evaluation effort to assess the impact of these
initiatives so far. A World Bank team has produced a report on the status of nutrition in Bolivia and has
36



Annex 2(a): Project Description
made recommendations for the improvement of nutritional interventions. This report is currently under
discussion with the Government and other donors. Multi-donor coordination efforts are also under way in
the area of nutrition, and there is a systematic effort to improve the nutritional impact of food programs,
strengthen their educational impact, improve their targeting, and reduce duplication. There are several
initiatives to improve medical waste management in hospitals, including drafting of new legislation. The
Expanded Program of Immunizations, partly with support from Phase I of this program, has also
introduced significant improvements in the management of waste at the primary level (See Annex 15).
In collaboration with other government and donor initiatives, Phase I of this APL successfully placed
these programs on the national agenda, launched the initial activities for the design of technical protocols,
and organized large-scale training programs. At present there is a need to evaluate the progress achieved,
identify gaps for further work, agree with other donor agencies on a division of labor and a system of
coordination, and then to fill any financing gaps. There is also a special need to boost MSPS capacity to
monitor the effectiveness of the large training programs under way. At the moment it only measures the
inputs (number of workers or community members trained). Implementation of this component would
involve: (i) supporting the evaluation of existing IMCI, MBP, nutrition and medical waste management
programs at the primary level; (ii) developing multi-donor plans of action to strengthen these programs;
(iii) financing activities for which there is a financing gap; and (iv)establishing in the MSPS a system for
monitoring and evaluating the effect of training activities. Outputs of this sub-component would include:
- Contributions to multi-donor plans in IMCI, MBP, nutrition and management of medical waste at
primary-level facilities;
v  Identification of financing gaps in these areas; and
*  Establishment of a system to evaluate the impact of training activities.
Component II. Stren-thening local capacity to respond to health needs (US$27.9 million)
Component II would support activities for two areas, which are discussed further below.
A. Support for the expansion of coverage of the SBS; and
B. Investment sub-projects to expand the coverage of SBS.
A. Support for the expansion of coverage of the SBS.
During 1998-2000 coverage of the SBS improved significantly in those areas where services already
existed. While this included those poor municipalities where services are available, underserved areas
have benefited less. During the 1990s there were many attempts to expand coverage into underserved
areas, mainly through investments in infrastructure and equipment. Many of those investments remain
underutilized today because health workers have not been assigned to those areas, or if they were hired
for these locations, soon after becoming public employees they moved into hospitals and other attractive
locations. A few pilot projects, generally supported by NGOs, have emphasized different techniques to
reach underserved locations with human resources. Successful experiences include San Lorenzo, Yotala,
and Challapota. However, these pilot schemes have not been expanded and in some cases even after
several decades continue to function as local projects benefiting a small population. Mexico, Brazil, and
Peru have struggled with the challenge of taking similar experiences to a national scale and have found
ways to do so. Bolivia now plans to replicate this experience by adopting two key features of those
programs (see lessons learned). First, these programs make use of health teams, consisting of the use of
local community agents (indigenous where relevant) combined with itinerant health professionals and
auxiliary nurses. The community agents live in the community, provide a cultural bridge in ethnically
diverse contexts, and focus on preventive and health promotional activities and on organizing the demand
for professional services. Health professionals work in an itinerant fashion, visiting each location with
predetermined schedules that allow target groups (such as mothers, school children, infants, etc.) to
37



Annex 2(a): Project Description
access their services effectively. Second, in all these countries, the expansion has been based on hiring
health workers outside the rigid norms and regulations of the civil service. Health workers are hired using
short-term private contracts that pay relatively high bonuses for difficult locations and stipulate
performance criteria for success in the job. Renewal of contracts is based on success in meeting the
performance criteria.
This component would support the establishment of a National Program for the Extension of Coverage of
the SBS (Programa Nacional de Extensi6n de la Cobertura del SBS - EXTENSA). The details of the
program would be defined during implementation. The Government expects this component to become
part of a multi-donor effort in support for the Program. There would be project activities at the national
and at the regional levels. As explained in the main text of the PAD, the institutional arrangements in the
health sector are in a state of flux. Currently, responsibilities for health provision are split between
municipalities and SEDES (Servicios Departamentales de Salud). The Government is seeking to transfer
all responsibility to the municipalities in a voluntary process that is expected to take three years. The
project will have to support EXTENSA in varied and changing local institutional arrangements. The
component would:
*  Support the management of EXTENSA, including: (i) identification of the priority areas for the
expansion of coverage, using criteria that combine poverty and cost-effectiveness; (ii) design of
work protocols for community agents and itinerant health professionals and promotion of cross-
fertilization activities across regions; (iii) management of the contracts and monitoring of team
performance.
e  Finance and train human resources. The expansion of human resources would be financed by a
combination of: (i) funds from the HIPC - these are expected to average US$90 million over the
next 15 years, and according to a draft law currently under debate, a certain proportion of those
resources could be earmarked for the decentralization of human resources in health; (ii) grants
and concessional credits from external donors - these would be phased out as the Government
phases in to finance the program from its own resources; and (iii) government revenues. Training
would be required for community agents, auxiliary nurses and health professionals in the new
arrangements for health delivery.
*  Finance basic equipment and inputs. Basic equipment for the health teams would include
communications equipment, bicycles and other light transportation, basic medical instruments
and inputs, and educational material. The establishment of teams would also require small
investments in works such as the rehabilitation of health posts or the installation of latrines.
*  Support local implementation of the new health teams. Local plans would be prepared and
discussed with the relevant parties (SEDES, municipalities, mancomunidades ) in all locations to
which the new teams are assigned in order to ensure that the additional resources respond to local
needs and are integrated into the existing supply of services. Where relevant, local plans would
include the preparation of feasibility studies for investment sub-projects that municipalities could
present for financing to the FPS (see next sub-component).
Outputs of this component would include:
*  The establishment of a small management unit for EXTENSA charged with planning and
monitoring the expansion of coverage;
*  The establishment of health teams in underserved areas selected on the basis of criteria that
combine poverty and epidemiological need;
*  Training, basic equipment and inputs issued to the new health teams;
38



Annex 2(a): Project Description
*  Local health plans developed in selected locations incorporating the new health teams into the
existing health networks; and
*  Feasibility studies for sub-projects developed in selected municipalities and mancomunidades.
These subprojects would be submitted to the FPS for financing (see next sub-component);
B. Investment sub-projects to expand the coverage of SBS
This subcomponent will be a key operational instrument to support municipalities and mancomunidades
in the expansion of coverage. It will finance investment projects as well as activities designed to
strengthen social communication, training or management.. This sub-component will be executed by the
FPS. The law regulating the assignment of funds to municipalities is currently being debated in
Congress. The draft law proposes pre-assigning annual budgetary ceilings to each municipality according
to a formula based on population and poverty. Municipalities would then allocate these resources for use
in social and productive sectors. The FPS would finance the municipal entitlements from several sources.
Municipalities who choose to use their budgetary allocation for health sector investments would draw
from the proceeds of the Health Sector Reform II credit. The following menu of subprojects would be
eligible for financing under the credit:
*  Equipment for community agents and itinerant professional: Transport equipment, including
mobile first-level medical, dental, and laboratory equipment; communication equipment;
ambulances;
* Strengthening of primary level services: Rehabilitation and equipment of health posts and centers,
training of health personnel to raise their capacity, IEC, social communication campaigns, and
other types of promotional activities to ensure beneficiary participation in the program and its
cultural adequacy;
*  Nutrition: Community outreach programs and integrated nutritional education packages for early
childhood and mothers to complement clinical services provided under the SBS;
*  Prevention and treatment of prevalent communicable diseases in the area: Equipment, inputs
training and social communication to increase the ability of local facilities to detect and control of
top priority communicable diseases identified in the health plans at an early stage;
*  Environmental health:  Small-scale treatment and rehabilitation of water supply, supply of
latrines, and management of medical waste.
Component III. Monitorine of Performance Indicators and Proiect Coordination (US$3.1 million)
The project will be executed at local levels of the health system, particularly in SEDES, districts,
municipalities, and health establishments. Project coordination is described in Annex 2(b). Monitoring
and evaluation will be key activities in this project. The URS will maintain a system (based on the SNIS)
to monitor project progress. Specialized studies will also be carried out as needed. Performance
Agreements (PA), which have been designated as the primary instrument of supervision and strategic
control, as represented by contracts signed between authorities seeking to achieve shared objectives.
These PAs will allow authorities from distinct levels of the health system to coordinate their actions for
sectoral and project objectives and will strengthen supervision mechanisms by: (i) operationalizing
ministerial policy directives to the SEDES and health establishments, particularly with regard to the SBS
and the fortification of local health networks; and (ii) explicitly assigning resources to expected results.
The activities to support PA implementation include: (i) training of staff involved in the system of
contracts-Ministry, SEDES, districts, health establishments, municipalities, NGOs, and other actors and
relevant organizations; and (ii) support for the supervision and monitoring of these instruments.
39



Annex 2(b): Project Description
Bolivia Health Reform Program Phase II
Project Management
Introduction:
The Health Sector Reform Program approved by the Bank in 1999 and in effect since December of that
year (APL 3244-BO) is currently executing Phase I. What follows is a project description for Phase II of
the APL. It adopts essentially the same approach as that used for the successful implementation of the
project in Phase I.
It is important to point out that the project began with an Executing Unit that came under the Ministry of
Health and Social Welfare (MSPS) but was not part of its organizational structure. To achieve closer
coordination it was later merged, through Ministerial Resolution No. 381 of July 25, 2000, into the
General Office of Health Services (DGSS).
The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) supported the design of the project and will also support
its implementation through technical assistance in supervising the EPI and EXTENSA components
(components IB and IIA). It will, additionally, finance the hiring of five epidemiologists to support
implementation at the departmental level.
Period of Execution: Four years
Executinf AFencies:
The project continues with the same two executing units it had in the first phase, namely:
 The General Office of Health Services (DGSS) of the MSPS
X The Productive and Social Investment Fund (FPS, formerly FIS).
Replicating the first phase model, the Productive and Social Investment Fund (FPS, formerly FIS) will
execute the Health Subprojects component (component IIB) under a subsidiary agreement acceptable to
the Bank to be signed by the Ministry of Finance, the MSPS, and the FPS. The subsidiary agreement will
be valid for one year and will include performance indicators measuring the effectiveness of FPS
operations.
Overall Coordination of the Project
As in the first phase, the MSPS will be responsible, through the DGSS, for carrying out the project in
accordance with an Operational Manual approved by the BANK. Maintaining continuity with the first
phase, the DGSS will coordinate implementation of the project with the other agencies, based mainly on
construction of a single Annual Operating Plan (POA), which includes the budget. With respect to overall
coordination, the DGSS will be responsible for the following:
*  Promoting the project locally;
*  Administering the project (developing systems for monitoring its impact and physical progress,
financial management, and preparation of semi-annual implementation reports);
  Supervising execution of the investments carried out by the municipalities through the FPS;
  Supervising project execution;
  Ensuring compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines
40



Annex 2(b): Project Description - Management
* Seeing that financial, procurement, and other audits required by the Bank are conducted (as well
as those required by the FPS);
a Coordinating supervision missions with the Bank;
* Organizing project impact assessment.
As in Phase I, the DGSS will maintain an organizational structure in keeping with its functions and
responsibilities in implementing the project. Whereas in the first phase, the DGSS had five small,
decentralized units to coordinate with the prefects, municipalities, and other local agents, in the second
phase there will be nine such units (Phase I covered only five departments, while Phase II covers nine
departments).
Execution of Subcomponents
DGSS:
The DGSS of MSPS will be responsible for executing the following components and subcomponents:
* L.A Strengthening the administration of the Basic Health Insurance;
*  I.B Support for National Health Programs related to mother and child care;
II.A Support for the expansion of coverage of the SBS; and
* HI Monitoring of Performance Indicators and Project Coordination
The DGSS will be responsible for managing all financial resources for the above-mentioned components,
with the exception of the purchasing of vaccines, which will be done through PAHO's Rotating Fund, as
stipulated in Annex 6.
Given that vaccination activities and others relating to the EPI and the National System of Health
Information are the purview of Directorates other than the DGSS, the DGSS will coordinate them through
Management Agreements that include target fulfillment commitments. These agreements are intemal
arrangements among MSPS directorates.
MSPS will establish the National Extension of Coverage Program (EXTENSA), which will come under
the DGSS.
FPS:
Following the first phase model, the FPS will execute Subcomponent II B (Investment sub-projects to
expand the coverage of SBS). The FPS is part of the Consolidated Directory of Funds [Directorio Unico
de Fondos - DUF ], the body that will be responsible for administering the mechanisms through which
funds are allocated and transferred to the municipalities.
Execution of this subcomponent will follow the rules contemplated in the New National Compensation
Policy, according to which municipalities are responsible for inviting project proposals, evaluating them,
and awarding contracts. The DUF will pre-allocate funds to each municipality based on a mathematical
formula (which takes into account poverty and demographic indicators) and present a menu of projects
eligible for financing according to criteria set by the ministry in that sector. In the health sector, that
means the MSPS. After considering its allocation, the menu of projects, and the eligibility criteria, each
municipality is responsible for submitting the projects it would like the FPS to finance.
Disbursements to the municipalities will be made through a Special Account of the FPS, with the FPS
41



Annex 2(b): Project Description - Management
monitoring the municipalities' procedures.
The rate of counterpart financing for the extension of coverage subprojects will be determined by the FPS
in accordance with the National Compensation Policy. The FPS will be responsible for registering these
investments in the Vice Ministry of Public Investmnent and for managing the municipality counterparts.
For Health Sector Reform Program funding provided by the Bank and transferred to the FPS, the
proposed project cycle is as follows:
* Invitation to submit project proposals. The FPS will from time to time issue invitations to the
municipalities or municipality networks (mancomunidades) to submit project outlines.
* Registration. Municipal governments would present their project outlines on pre-printed FPS forms,
and following the guidelines and the menu of eligible projects.
* Pre-evaluation. Pre-evaluation of the outlines consists of verifying that they meet the eligibility
criteria and the objective pursued by the project.
* Pre-agreement on allocation of funds. Once the project outline is approved, the FPS will notify the
applicant of the result of its pre-evaluation and, through a "pre-agreement," will guarantee funding for
project execution.
* Final design. Armed with that pre-agreement, the applicant may access pre-investment funding by the
FPS or by the Project to finance the final draft of the project.
* Evaluation and approval. The projects will be evaluated by the FPS departmental teams and approved
by the technical Boards of Directors for Departmental Projects based on approval criteria to be agreed
upon by the FPS and the MSPS.
* Execution. Approved projects will be put out to tender by the beneficiaries, who shall be responsible
for the entire process, which will be audited by the FPS and monitored by the DGSS.
Operational Manual
The project will use an Operational Manual, based on the current one, that will cover all aspects of project
implementation, including, inter alia: organizational structure; supervision and evaluation; targeting and
other criteria for the distribution of resources; eligibility criteria for extension of coverage subprojects;
environmental conservation measures; procedures for drafting the annual operating plans; financial,
accounting and audit procedures; disbursement and procurement procedures and Standard Bidding
Documents; and a menu of short term investment options. Presentation of a revised operational manual
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of effectiveness of phase II of the credit.
The Subsidiary Agreement with the FPS will require the use of another Operational Manual, drafted by
the FPS, which clearly describes the relations between the FPS and the municipalities, and the
responsibilities of each. The Manual should include in its stipulations quarterly financial and physical
progress reports. Presentation of an FPS operational manual satisfactory to the Bank will constitute a
condition of disbursement for activities executed by FPS.
Annual implementation review and proiect supervision.
The Bank's supervision schedule shall include at least three missions in the first year of implementation,
one of which will be the Annual Project Implementation Review, conducted jointly with the MSPS, and
the FPS. The project will require close supervision by the Bank and by PAHO for the four years of
project execution, involving at least two missions, one of which will correspond to the Annual Review
Mission. The Bank has received a letter from PAHO stating its commitment to provide support for project
supervision during the implementation period. The Review Mission in the fourth year will include an
examination of the trigger indicators for phase III of the APL and a complete evaluation of the project as
42



Annex 2(b): Project Description - Management
part of the APL program. It will also put forward recommendations for execution of the third phase of the
Reform Program.
Monitorine and Evaluation.
As in the first phase, the Credit Agreement specifies that this project is to be evaluated using the
performance indicators of Annex la and that if three or more of the eight indicators miss their annual
targets, the Bank may demand that the project be restructured. To ensure that the project meets its targets,
the MPSP will sign management agreements with prefects and selected municipalities, taking into
account the eight established indicators. The DGSS will be responsible for monitoring the project and
progress reports containing the performance indicators will be sent to the Bank every six months.
43



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Project Cost by Component                 Total
(US$ million)
1. Coverage and Quality improvements of the SBS and    39.3
Empowerment of Communities
2. Local Capacity to respond to health needs of the    27.9
population
3. Monitoring of Performance Indicators and Project     3.1
Coordination
Total Baseline Cost                                    70.3
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                70.3
Interest during construction  --
Front-end fee    NA
Total Financing Required           70.3
Project Cost by Category                 Total
(US$ million)
Works                                                   3.0
Goods                                                  43.4
Consultant Services                                     7.6
Health Workers                                         13.5
Operational costs                                       2.8
Total Project Costs                70.3
Interest during construction  --
Front-end fee    NA
Total Financing Required           70.3
44



Annex 4(a): Economic and Equity Analysis
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
INTRODUCTION
The present analysis attempts to quantify the monetary benefits that will be generated by the second phase
of the Health Sector Reform Program in Bolivia during its implementation and compares them to the
projected costs in order to estimate the number of deaths averted by the project, the Net Present Value of
the investment and its Internal Rate of Return.
As explained in detail in Annex 2a the project will help improve equity and quality of health services in
Bolivia. Health and monetary benefits are assumed to derive entirely from Component IIA (Extension of
Coverage - PRONEC). We assume that the target (uncovered) population of the project is 25% of the total
population in the country. The process of extension of coverage will happen gradually: 15% of the
uncovered population will be reached in 2002, 35% in 2003, 65% in 2004 and 100% in 2005. For children
0-5, we focus on deaths due to pneumonia and diarrhea. For mothers, we focus on deaths due to
complications in the delivery process. Since the activities carried out by the other components are also
necessary for an efficient implementation of Component IIA, the cost of all components are included in
the analysis.
In this analysis, all the economic benefits are related to deaths averted. No attempt to calculate the
benefits from a reduction in morbidity is made for three reasons First, given the high level of mortality in
Bolivia, scarce resources should first go to averting deaths before they are directed to reducing morbidity.
Second, the calculation of economic benefits only from deaths averted can be interpreted as representing a
lower bound on the true benefits. If the estimated internal rate of return appears sufficiently high to justify
the project even at this lower bound, it is not necessary to undertake the more complicated analysis of
determining the benefits from the reduction in morbidity. Third, the economic analysis of Phase I only
included benefits associated to reduction in mortality.
The section is structured as follows. We start with outlining the methodology used to estimate the
economic benefits of the extension of coverage component. We then present the result of cash-flow
analysis, including the Net Present Value (NPV), the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and the total number
of deaths averted. Then, through Monte Carlo simulations we test the robustness of our estimates to the
uncertainty of the project success in reaching the uncovered population. Finally, we present an analysis of
equity for selected health indicators using both individual and aggregate data.
ESTIMATION OF BENEFITS
For both children and mothers, the estimation of benefits involves 3 steps:
a)    Definition of a mortality model in function of parameters that are affected by the project
(coverage, incidence of disease, treatment patterns and mortality rates);
b)    Estimation of the number deaths with and without the project;
c)    Attribution of an economic value to deaths averted.
45



Annex 4(a)
Definition of Mortality Models
For diarrhea, the annual number of deaths depends on the number of children 0-4, the number of episodes
per child per year, the proportion of cases with dehydration, the proportion of cases that are taken to
health center and the mortality rates for cases that are taken to the health center and for cases that are not.
The flow-chart below illustrates the model. The value of the parameters for such model with and without
the project can be found in the following sub-section. The parameters assumed to be affected by the
project are highlighted. The same process is repeated for pneumonia and maternal mortality.
|ChildrenO0-4                           Episodes that      ORT at health   L
Epiodes of  i    |                                 gD the the         center
diarrhe per child                                  health ceter
Total nunrber              Proportin of A%lratt  t
of episodes               :episodes lako                +  nrvnus
to tliebtalth i                treatrnen:
Proportion of                         cenbr
episodes with
dehydration
Total e ppoion                                         Mortality rate            f   caes  
dehydration rrn 0Ptioo4f
taknto6 ft                                        Deah
Episodes that       Mortaliy rate
do riot gD the
the health
cetter
For pneumoni4, the annual number of deaths is a function of the number of children 0-4; the incidence of
pneumonia, the proportion of children who receive treatment and the mortality rates for cases with and
without treatment.
I Children 0-4   l
Inieve                                   netdchlr-         -    -    Mortality rate
Incidencc                    Infected childre~~~~~n receivirng
i rated       ~~% with                 treatrrent.
stratment                                                 ,      n
Children 0-4 with
pneumtonia
treatment ~ ~~~~~~~ treathsn
Mortality ratc 
46



Annex 4(a)
For maternal mortality, the annual number of deaths depends on the annual number of deliveries, the
coverage of institutional deliveries and the mortality rates for attended and unattended deliveries.
% Attended by                                        Mortality rate
medimlly trained  01 NonInstitutional deliveries
% Attended by                                       Mortality rate
medically trained
personnel
In order to validate the model, epidemiological and behavioral data from the 1998 Demographic and
Health Survey, the SNIS and other countries with similar level of socioeconomic development were used
to predict the number of deaths due to diarrhea, pneumonia and pregnancy complications for year 2000
and compare it with the observed number of deaths due to these causes in the same year.
Estimation of the number deaths with and without the project
The tables below present the scenarios with and without the project for each of the three sub-components
(diarrhea, pneumonia and maternal mortality). The highlighted rows show the values for the parameters
that are expected to be affected by the project. For each of the three sub-components the project is
assumed to have an incremental effect on most of the parameters that define the mortality patterns under
examination so that only in 2005 the beneficiary population will have similar epidemiological and
behavioral patterns as those observed in the whole Bolivia in year 2000.
47



Annex 4(a)
CHILDREN 0-4
Beneficiary Population
2002             2003               2004              2005
Total                                                1,239,403         1,268,405         1,298,085         1,328,461
Non-covered (25%)                                       25%               25%               25%               25%
Cumulative proportion reached by the project            15%               35%               65%               100%
Beneficiaries                                          46,478            110,985           210,939           332,115
Diarrhea
2002             2003              2004               2005
No Project
Episodes per child                                      3.5               3.5               3.5                3.5
/o with dehydration                                     15%               15%               15%               15%
Total episodes with dehydration                        24,401            58,267           110,743            174,360
Proportion that visit health center                15.0%             15.0%             15.0%/o           15.0%
ORT at home                                           83%               83%               83%               83%
Mortality rate                                        0%                0%                 0%                0%
Deaths                                                   0                 0                  0                 0
ORT at health center                                  14%               14%               14%               14%
Mortality rate                                        0%                0%                 0%                0%
Deaths                                                   0                 0                  0                 0
Intravenous treatment                                 3%                3%                 3%                3%
Mortality rate                                        3.6%              3.6%              3.6%              3.6%
Deaths                                                   4                 10                18                29
Proportion that do not go to health center        85.0%             85.00/a           85.00/%           85.0%
liity rate                                              3.6%              3.6%              3.6%              3.6%
gDeaths                                                 747               1,783             3,389             5,335
[FOTAL DEATHS                                           751               1,793            3,407              5,364
tWith Project
/ with dehydration                                      15%               15%               15%               15%
Total e isodes with dehydratiot                        20,915            49.943            94.922            149.452
I $00000000 1 x,,,,t6  S0i'w .   $ . ,'0 ;'   t}0   ,,0g',   3   ..   >   .\.^   ..                                                             i.  W_  0; lt t 00S
ORT at home                                           83%               83%               83%               83%
Mortality rate                                        0%                0%                0%                0%
Deaths                                                   0                 0                  0                 0
ORT at health center                                  14%               14%               14%               14%
Mortality rate                                        0%                0%                0%                0%
0                 0                 0                 0
Intravenous treatmeit                                 3%                 3%                3%                3%
Mortality rate                                       3.6%              3.6%              3.6%              3.6%
Deaths                                                   6                 19                47                83
.SG0%0,, _ _l lkSE}'''M id''ts
Deaths                                                  565               1,136             1,775             2,466
TOTAL DEATHS                                            571               1,156             1,823             2,549
Deaths averted by the project                            180              637               1,585             2,816
48



Annex 4(a)
Pneumonia
__2002_ 2003                        2004              2005
No Project
Incidence                                               4.5%             4.5%               4.5%             4.5%
Children with pneumonia                                2,091             4,994             9,492             14,945
With treatrnent                                     55.0/             55.0%             55.0/o            55.0/
Mortality rate                                          3.0%             3.0%               3.0%f/.          3.0%
Deaths                                                   35                82               157               247
No Treatment                                        45. 0             45.0%             45.0/             45.0%
Mortality rate                                         75.0%/5 75.0%                       75.0%             75.0h
Deaths                                                  706               1,686            3,204             5,044
TOTAL DEATHS                                            740               1,768            3,360             5,291
With Project
Children with    monia                                 1,859             4,439             S.438             13.285
Mortality rate                                         3.0%              3.0%              3.00/             3.0X.
Deaths                                                36                100               215               359
Mortality rate                                          75%               75%               75%               75%
Deaths                                                  488               832               949               996
TOTAL DEATHS                                            524               932               1,164             1,355
Death saved by the project                              216               836              2,196             3,936
MATERNAL MORTALITY
Beneficiary Population
2002             2003              2004              2005
Tohl Expected Deliveries                               289,103          295,868           302,791           309,876
Non-covered (25%)                                       25%               25%/o             25%               25%
Cumulative pmportion reached by the project             15%               35%               65%               100%/
Beneficiaries                                          10,841            25,S88            49,204            77,469
2002             2003               2004       }      2005
49



Annex 4(a)
Institutional deliveries                         20%             20%             20%             20%
Mortality rate                                0.00082         0.00082         0.00082         0.00082
Deaths                                             2               4               8              13
Non-institutional deliveries                80%             80%             80%             80%
Mortal ity rate                               0.00724         0.00724         0.00724         0.00724
Deaths                                            63              150            285             448
TOTAL DEATHS                                      65              154            293             461
With Project
Mortality rate                                0.00082         0.00082         0.00082         0.00082
Deaths                                             2              7               18              33
Mortality rate                                0.00724         0.00724         0.00724         0.00724
Deaths                                            59              122             196            269
FOTAL DEATHS                                      61             129             214             302
Death saved by the project                         3              25              79              159
Attributing an Economic Value to Deaths Averted
In accordance to the Human Capital Approach, the economic benefits of averting a death of a mother or a
child are assumed to be the present discounted value of the income that person would earn during their
added lifetime. In both cases, the discount rate was set at 10 percent. Per capita GDP is currently
estimated to be around US$1,050.
The particular assumptions used to calculate the economic benefit to averting the death of a mother are as
follows. Women are assumed to be working and to have an additional 29 years of earning income
(reflecting the assumptions that the woman would otherwise have died at age 31 and would be expected
to work until age 60). The children are assumed to begin work at age 18 and work until age 60. The base
income is assumed to grow 1.5 percent per year.
Summary of Health Benefits
Overall, the project is expected to save about 12,500 deaths among children below age 5 and little less
than 300 maternal deaths.
ESTIMATION OF COSTS
We use the information contained in Annex 3 (Estimated Project Costs).
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
The table below presents the details of cash-flow analysis.
2002                2003                2004                 2005
Total Benefits           $1,348,332           $5,144,148          $13,371,795         $24,080,669
Total Costs              $8,809,690          $10,939,360          $12,254,021          $8,243,895
Net Benefits            ($7,461,358)         ($5,795,212)         $1 ,117,774         $15,836,774
NPV (10%)                  $84,046
IRR (10%)                   10% /
50



Annex 4(a)
Under the assumptions outlined above, the NPV of the Extension of Coverage component of Phase II is
approximately US$85,000 and its IRR 10%, figures which indicate that the project would pay back the
investments over the four years period of the loan.
MONTE CARLO SIMULATIONS
The following table presents results obtained from Monte Carlo simulations in which the population
reached by the project has a uniform distribution ranging between 10% and 15% in 2002, 25% and 35%
in 2003, 50% and 65% in 2004, and 80% and 100% in 2005. We present the results for the IRR and the
number of deaths averted among children less than 5. The rate of growth of GDP per capita is also
assumed to have a uniform distribution with values ranging between 1.5% and 3.0% every year.3
IRR                             Deaths Averted to Children less than 5
Mean                 20%                   Mean                  11,024
SD                   14%                   SD                    489
Percentiles                                Percentiles
0%                   -10%                  0%                    9,734
10%                   1%                  10%                   10,376
20%                  5%                    20%0                  10,591
30%                  10%                   30%                   10,740
40%                  14%                   40%                   10,875
50%                  190/0                 50%                   11,008
60%                  24%                   60%                   11,163
70%                  29%                   70%                   11,316
80%                  33%                   80%                   11,481
90%                  40%/o                 90%                   11,680
100%                 56%                   100%                  12,165
The percentiles provide information on the distribution on the results. The table suggests that there are
sizable retums to the project. In 70% of the trials the IRR is larger than 10%. In 100% of the trials the
number of deaths averted to children less than 5 is above 9,500.
EQUITY ANALYSIS IN SELECTED HEALTH INDICATORS 1994-2000
Individual Data
We use individual data from the 1994 and 1998 Demographic and Health Surveys to show how the value
of five selected maternal and child health indicators varies across income quintiles. The selected
indicators are (1) Infant Mortality Rate; (2) Total Fertility Rate; (3) Percentage of children stunted; (4)
Percentage of women receiving antenatal care by a medically trained person; (5) Percentage of women
delivering birth to a medically trained person.
The table below shows that inequality in health between the rich and the poor has increased between 1994
and 1998 in Bolivia for two of the three outcome indicators - IMR and TFR. In particular two processes
are observed. First, although IMR has improved for both the rich and poor, the change has been larger
among the rich. Second, the Total Fertility Rate has declined among women in the richest income
quintiles but has increased among women in the poorest income quintile. Consequently, the difference
observed between the health indicators among the poorest and the richest has increased during the 1994-
98 period. The gap has declined very slightly for the third health status indicator - proportion of children
3 The Bolivian Strategy for the Reduction of poverty estimates an average GDP growth of 5.2% between
2001 and 2015.
51



Annex 4(a)
stunted - and has decreased for the two process indicators. It is worth noticing that the 1994 value among
the richest for both the percentage of women receiving antenatal care by a medically trained person and
the percentage of women delivering birth to a medically trained person was already very high (92.8% and
96.5% respectively). If sustained over time, such changes are likely to result into a narrowing of the gap
in health outcome indicators between the rich and poor in the next DHS.
Selected Maternal and Child Health Indicators 1994-1998
Quintile
1           2               3               4               5
Infant Mortality Rate                                                  3
1994                                 115.3           96.0             92.8            63.6            38.4
1998                                 106.5            85              75.5            38.6            25.5
Change                                -4.6            14.4            8.5             -27.4           -26.9
Difference between Quintile I and Quintile 5 in 1994 = 76.9
Difference between Ouintile I and Quintile 5 in 1998 = 81.0
Total Fertility Rate            _
1994                                  7.2             6.7             5.0             3.7              24
1998                                  7.4             5.8             4.4              3              2.1
Change                                0.6            -0. 1            -0.6            -0.9            -0.9
Difference between Quintile I and Quintile 5 in 1994 = 4.8
Difference between Quintile I and Qui tile 5 in 1998 = 5.3
% Children Stunted                             I _                             I
1994                                 40.9            33.2            23.5             18.9             7.1
1998                                 39.2             29             22.3             11.10
Change                                -1.8            -1.8            -3              -7.8
Difference between Quintile I and Quintile 5 in 1994 = 33.8
Difference between Quintile I and Quintile 5 in 1998 = 33.2
Antenatal Care Visits to
Medically Trained Person
1994                                 23.0            45.9             54.9            70.4            92.8
1998                                 38.8            57.8             70.4            88.6            95.3
Change                                12.6            14.6            15.4            19.3             15.4
Difference between Quintile I and Quintile 5 in 1994 = 69.8
Difference between Quintile I and Quintile 5 in 1998 = 56.5
Delivery to a Medically Trained
Person
1994                                 11.4            34.7            48.5             75.4            96.5
1998                                 19.8            44.8             67.7            87.9            97.9
Change                                6.5             10.1            17.3            18.5             16.3
Difference between Quintile I and Quintile 5 in 1994 = 85.1
Difference between Quintile I and Quintile 5 in 1998 = 78.1
Source: DHS 1994, 1998
Municipal Data
We use municipal data from the National Health Information System (SNIS) on coverage for the
following two indicators: i) institutional deliveries, and ii) complete cycle of antenatal care, for the years
1996 to 2000. Data is analyzed by quintiles according to municipal Human Development Index (HDI)
obtained from the 1992 Census.
The table below shows the following patterns:
*   The gap in health coverage between the rich and poor municipalities increased between  1996 and
1999 for both indicators.
*   The gap in health coverage between the rich and poor municipalities decreased between  1999 and
2000 for both indicators. However, the gap in 2000 was higher than in 1996 by 1% for institutional
deliveries and by 2% for antenatal care.
52



Annex 4(a)
Municipal level Health Indicators by HDI, 1996-2000
Quintiles by Municipal HDI
I         ~~       ~~2-    3              4               S
Average IDH                      0300            0.369           0.407          OA57            0.537
Coverage of Institutional Deliveries
1996                              17%            18%             16%            26%             35%
1999                              24%            26%             24%            37%             49%
2000                              29%            31%             28%             38%            48%
Difference between quintile I and quintile 5 in 1996 = 18%
Difference between quintile 1 and quintile 5 in 1999 = 25%
Difference between quintile I and quintile 5 in 2000 = 19%
Complete Cycle of Antenatal Care Visits
1996                              23%            21%             21%            30%             28%
1999                              26%            26%             29%            32%             37%
2000                              33%            37%             35%             38%            40%
Difference between quintile I and quintile 5 in 1996 = 5%
Difference between quintile I and quintile S in 1999  11%
Difference between quintile I and quintile 5 in 2000 = 7%
Source: Grupo Equidad - MSPS using data from SNIS
Conclusions
Both analyses show that there has been an increase in inequality in the second half of the 1990s.
Aggregate municipal data suggests that the trend of increasing inequality may be initiating a reversal at
the end of the decade. Considering that the observed reversal of the trend and decrease in inequality
occurred between 1999 and 2000, it may be partially attributed to the implementation of the Seguro
Basico de Salud, which enabled more people from poorer municipalities to gain access to health services.
However, both individual and aggregate data indicate that the rich still have much greater access to health
services and benefit from a better health status than the poor. Therefore, poverty targeted policies such as
extension of coverage to underserved areas are a necessary step to reduce health inequalities.
53



Annex 4(b) Public Expenditure in Health
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
(in millions of $US)
. _______________________________________  1998   1999    2000      2001       2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007   2008    2009      2010
Withtout Project Phase 2 (Phase 1)                                              -
A. Central Govemment Expenditure in Health (exclude  69.2  77.8   62.2       76.0  74.9 80.4  83.5  86.7  90.1  93.6   97.2    101.0    104.9
inmunizations)            _____-
- Domestic                                59.2      63.9                         56.1  60.2  62.6  65.0  67.5  70.1    72.9      75.7     78.6
57.9          53.1      _    _      _       _
- Other External Sources                   9.6      12.6                         18.8 20.1  20.9  21.7  22.6  23.5   24.4        25.3    26.3
_____ _____ _____ ____1.2   _17.8
- Health Reform Program (APL1) - World Bank  0.4     1.3    3.1            5.2
B. Inmunizations                              1.5       2.0    3.3            3.5   3.5  3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5    3.5  -3.5             3.5
C. Municipal Govemment Expenditure in Health  2.1       3.8    8.1 =          8.1   9.7  10.6  11.3  11.9  12.6  13.2   13.9        14.6     15.3
D. Total Public Expenditure in Health        72.8      83.6   73.6           87.6  88.1  94.5  98.3  102.2 106.2 110.3  114.6    119.1    123.7
With Project Phase 2
A. Central Government Expenditure in Health (exclude  69.2  77.8   62.2      76.0  80.8 92.1  95.3  98.5  95.0  98.5  102.1    105.9    109.8
inmunizations)
- Domestic                                59.2      63.9   57.9           53.1   57.0 62.0  64.3  66.8  72.4  75.0   77.8    80.6         83.5
Of which Government counterpart to                                                         1.0   2.5   4.9   4.9    4.9        4.9      4.9
EXTENSA
- Other External Sources                   9.6      12.6    1.2           17.8  18.8 20.1  20.9  21.7  22.6  23.5   24.4         25.3     26.3
- Health Reform Program (APL1 & APL2) - World   0.4  1.3    3.1            5.2   5.0 10.0  10.0  10.0   0.0   0.0    0.0          0.0      0.0
Bank
Of which WB financing for EXTENSA                                              1.8  3.6   4.2   2.4                         .      _
B. Inmunizations                              1.5       2.0    3.3            3.5   4.0  4.5   5.0   5.5   5.5   5.5    5.5          5.5      5.5
C. Municipal Govemment Expenditure in Health  2.1       3.8    8.1            8.1  11.1  14.3  13.4  12.3  13.0  13.6   14.3        15.0     15.8
D. Total Public Expenditure in Health        72.8      83.6   73.6           87.6  95.9 111.0  113.6  116.3 113.5 117.6  121.9    126.4    131.1
Increased Expenditures              _____
A. Central Government Expenditure in Health (exclude   0.0  0.0    0.0        0.0   5.9  11.8  11.8  11.8   4.9   4.9    4.9         4.9      4.9
inmunizations)                                                      _ .   .
B. Inmunizations                              0.0       0.0    0.0            0.0   0.5  1.0   1.5   2.0   2.0   2.0    2.0          2.0      2.0
C. Municipal Govemment Expenditure in Health  0.0       0.0    0.0            0.0   0.5  1.0   1.5   2.0   2.0   2.0    2.0          2.0      2.0
D. Total Public Expenditure in Health         0.0       0.0    0.0            0.0   6.9  13.8  14.8  15.8   8.9   8.9    8.9         8.9      8.9
Of which:
54



1998      1999        2000          2001        2002   2003  2004  2005  2006  2007   2008    2009    2010
C. Municipal Govemment Expenditure in       0.0           0.0       0.0              0.0      0.5  1.0   1.5   2.0   2.0   2.0          2.0     2.0       2.0
Health
D. Total Public Expenditure in Health       0.0           0.0       0.0              0.0      6.9  13.8  14.8  15.8   8.9   8.9         8.9     8.9       8.9
Of which:
Financed by the Credit and Cofinanciers    0.4            1.3      3.1   _          5.2      5.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   0.0   0.0         0.0     0.0       0.0
Financed by Central Government                                  _                            0.9  1.8   1.8   1.8   0.0   0.0          0.0     0.0      0.0
Financed by the Municipalities                                                               0.5  1.0   1.5   2.0   2.0   2.0          2.0     2.0       2.0
EXTENSA                                                                                     1.8  3.6   5.2   4.9   4.9   4.9          4.9      4.9
Memo Items in millon $us                                      _         _                         _ .            _   _
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)              8,555         8,339     8,547            8,889   9,289 9,754 10,242 10,754 11,313 11,924   12,580  13,271    14,001
Total Public Expenditures (TPE)           2,652         2,560     2,786            2,551    2,545 2,692  2,888  3,000  3,145  3,446    3,459   3,650    3,850
Without Project          _                                                                         ___
A + B / GDP                               0.8%           1.0%      0.8%             0.9%    0.8%  0.9%   0.8%   0.8%   0.8%   0.8%    0.8%    0.8%      0.8%
A + B / TPE                               2.7%           3.1%      2.4%             3.1%    3.1%  3.1%   3.0%   3.0%   3.0%   2.8%    2.9%    2.9%      2.8%
E/GDP                                     0.9%           1         0.9%             1.0%    0.9%  1.0%   1.0%                         0.9%    0.9%      0.9%
With Project
A + B I GDP                               0.8%           1.0%      0.8%             0.9%    0.9%  1.0%   1.0%   1.0%   0.9%   0.9%    0.9%    0.8%     0.8%
A + B /TPE                                2.7%           3.1%      2.4%             3.1%    3.3%  3.6%   3.5%   3.5%   3.2%   3.0%    3.1%    3.1%      3.0%
E/GDP                                     0.9%           1.0%      0.9%             1.0%    1.0% 1.1%   1.1%   1.1%   1.0%   1.0%     1.0%    1.0%      0.9%
Increased Central Government Expenditure    0.0%         0.0%      0.0%             0.0%    0.2% 0.4%   0.4%   0.4%   0.2%  0.1%      0.1%    0.1%      0.1%
TPE                                             _              _                                                                   _
Increased Public Expenditure / GDP        0.0%           0.0%      0.0%             0.0%    0.3%  0.5%   0.5%  0.5%  0.3%  0.3%       0.3%    0.2%      0.2%
Source: Unidad de Reforma de Salud, based on information provided by Contaduria General del Estado,
UDAPE, INE, MSPS, VIPFE.
NOTES:
Information forMSPS for2000 ispreliminary. Execution by the MSPS was low; investmentprojects executed41%and 95%ofrecurrentcosts.
The MSPS budget is for 2001
The rate of growth of GDP was taken from the PRSP, as well as the percentage of total public health expenditures over GDP
The rate of growth of public spending was used for estinates of spending at the central level.
SBS execution for 1999 was calculated based on bank reports from the treasury.
Central govemment spending excludes spending on pensions and includes salaries of health workers,
55



Annex 5: Financial Summary
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Years Ending: 2005
(in US$ million)
2002       2003        2004        2005      TOTAL
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            5.35        4.99        5.54       4.14        20.02
Recurrent Costs4            10.26      13.44       14.30       12.22       50.23
Total Project Costs       15.61       18.44       19.84       16.35      70.25
Interest during construction  --         --         --          --          --
Front-end Fee         NA          NA          NA          NA         NA
Financing Sources
IDA                         7.61        9.53       10.70        7.16       35.00
Government                  5.85        6.46        7.10        7.05       26.45
Other Donors                2.15        2.45        2.05       2.15        8.80
Totld Poject Financing         15.61       18.44       19.84      16.35       70.25
Notice: This table includes the costs of, and financing for, the whole immunizations program.
4 Includes vaccines, operative expenses and cost in health personnel.
56



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
A. Procurement Arran2ements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised
in September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
The Ministry of Health through the PCU and the Fondo Nacional de Inversion Productiva y
Social (FPS), will supervise all procurement action under the project, based on agreed
procurement procedures as defined in the Operations Manual. The Procurement Operations
Manual will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding
Documents to be used in each case, as well as contracts to be awarded on the basis of quotations.
Where no relevant standard contract exists, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be
used.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values
for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project could include the rehabilitation of existing hospitals, and small
works for minor expansion and rehabilitation of health facilities and sanitary posts; cold storage
rooms for vaccines; solid and liquid waste disposal systems for health service centers and septic
chambers and latrines at the national and municipal levels, totaling approximately US$2.0 million
equivalent. Major contracts for works with estimated prices of $3.0 million equivalent or more
are not foreseen. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$3.0 million equivalent but more than
$250,000 equivalent per contract may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures, and using standard national bidding documents (Ex-DONPA) agreed on with the
Bank for Bolivian public agencies in 1997. Small works, estimated to cost less than US$250,000
equivalent per contract, may be procured on the basis of at least three quotations received in
response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed description of the works, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project will include cold chambers, cold chain supplies; medical
instruments and equipment for new and existing medical facilities, vaccines and syringes for
immunization campaigns and endemic disease control programs; transportation equipment such
as vehicles, boats, motorcycles and bicycles for coverage extension of rural health services;
computer equipment for municipal health networks; micro drinking water systems and septic
chambers, general office furniture, and administrative and educational equipment and furniture
totaling US$13.6 million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be
grouped  into  bidding   packages  of  more  than   $200,000   equivalent  and
57



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated values below this threshold per contract may be
procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard national bidding
documents, namely Ex-DONPA, agreed on with the Bank for Bolivian public agencies in 1997.
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 per contract may be procured using shopping (national /intemational) procedures
based on a model request for quotations acceptable to the Bank.
Vaccines and syringes for immunization campaigns will be procured under contracts signed with
PAHO, and the use of a rotating fund mechanism and conditions set forth in agreements to be signed
with the MSPS. The total estimated funding for the purchase of vaccines and syringes amounts to
$32.0 million and the Bank is financing $2.29 million which provides for approximately 7.0% of the
total. PAHO will purchase goods in an open unrestricted competitive market and following Bank-
approved procedures, and will submit annual market surveys for BANK review as a means of
providing evidence of using competitive market prices. Although Cuba is a PAHO country member, it
is not an eligible country for provision of vaccines or any other goods financed out of BANK
proceeds.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project for the provision of technical assistance in the
following areas of expertise: design and implementation of health service networks and coverage
extension at rural areas; health diagnosis studies; diagnoses of managerial and financial capacity at
municipal health districts; health network operations and ex-post evaluations; quality improvement of
national health services; mother mortality surveillance; applied research on mother mortality based on
the National Census on Housing and Population's results; conducting of a national health survey
(ENSA); design and implementation of information education campaigns; and expert procurement
services on bidding and selection processes. Other consultant services of a specialized nature to be
contracted are: financial, procurement, performance, and medical practice audits; specialized studies
on project progress monitoring and performance agreement-based impact evaluation; technical
supervision of subprojects executed under the investment component; long-term consultants for
project implementation and coordination and specialized training tasks. These services are estimated
to cost $3.64 million equivalent and would be procured using Bank-issued Standard Request for
Proposals documents whenever advertisement of Expressions of Interest in Development Business is
required. For consultant service contracts with an estimated price below the threshold of US$200,000
equivalent, the standard national documents for Request for Proposals, namely Ex-DONPA, agreed on
for Bolivia will be used.
Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS except for small and simple contracts estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, as provided in the procurement plan agreed for implementation.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications obtained from at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Operational Costs
Operating costs incurred by the MSPS's PIU for project coordination, monitoring and evaluation
purposes will be financed under this category of costs.  Operating costs items will be procured using
58



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
the URS administrative procedures agreed on in the Operations Manual. The National Coverage
Extension Program component envisages extending the provision of health services to remote and
rural areas with current and/or additional staff. During implementation of the component, operational
expenses of the implementing unit related to project coordination and field supervision tasks will be
financed under this credit.
Health Workers
The implementation of the National Program for Coverage Extension component foresees the
provision of health services through increased participation of the MSPS's staff and incorporation of
additional workers at rural areas. Current Ministry staff will receive in addition to their salaries, a
bonus as an incentive for providing services in rural areas. When hiring additional staff, the project
will provide for payments of salaries and transportation and food-related expenses.
Health Subproiects
Activities under this category will be implemented by FPS and directly executed by participating
municipalities, on a demand-driven basis, and aim to improve physical and operational conditions of
health facilities and services at the municipal level involving procurement of goods and civil works
and consultant services. Civil works activities will include the expansion and rehabilitation of health
service facilities and sanitary posts to be procured under contracts awarded through the use of NCB
and PSW procedures as indicated in Table B of this annex. Procurement of goods foresees the
acquisition of vehicles, computers, medical instruments and equipment, general office furniture, and
administrative and educational equipment under contracts awarded with the use of NCB procedures
and price comparison (Shopping) of quotations obtained from at least three qualified national or
international suppliers, as provided in Table B of this annex. Consultant services will be required for
training related activities to community members (community agents) and health facility staff, and for
carrying out of information, education and communication campaigns. All consultant services will be
provided by firms and selected, to the extent possible through the use of the Quality Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) provided in Table B of this annex.
Prior review thresholds
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the
project implementing units and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this prior review of
individual procurement actions, the plan and budget for the PIU operating costs will be reviewed and
approved by the Bank annually.
(B) Assessment of the afency's caDacity to imDlement urocurement
At the central level of Government, the supervision of procurement and hiring of consultant services
will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Health (MSPS) through the Health Reform Unit of the
General Office of Health Services(DGSS in Spanish) and the FPS (in the case of physical investment),
for all resources transferred under its administration. The MH's PIU is satisfactorily staffed by a
Project General Manager, who at the same time is the Health General Service Director; a Technical
Manager; and an Administrative/Financial Manager. The Technical Unit is staffed with a total of eight
professionals assigned to different areas of expertise like health service quality (3 officers), monitoring
(I officer), equity (3 officers) and regional development (I officer). The Administrative/Financial
Unit is staffed with staff professionals in charge of the accounting/financial management/disbursement
(I officer), procurement (2 officers) and managerial development (1 officer) areas.
59



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
The Operations Manual agreed with the Bank will include, in addition to procurement procedures, the
Standard Bidding Documents to be used for each procurement method provided set forth in Table B
below, as well as model contracts for works and goods procured on the basis of three quotations and
shopping respectively, and for employment of individual consultants.
A capacity assessment of both PIUs to implement procurement actions for the project was conducted
during the appraisal mission in April 16-27, 2001 and the reports of findings and recommendations
cleared by the LAC RPA Office on April 24, 2001. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure of each PIU involved in project coordination and monitoring and the interaction between the
Procurement Officers and implementing units within the MSPS and the FPS. An analysis of project
beneficiary entities that will be directly involved in project execution at the department and municipal
levels was carried out also. The capacity assessment identified weaknesses and risk factors for
implementing and executing agencies that are spelled out in the reports of findings. Specific actions to
address weaknesses and risks are proposed in the action plan attached to each report.
Some issues related to weaknesses observed in procurement are being addressed and corrective
measures being implemented within the MSPS under the APC 1" stage that is also managed by this
agency. Likewise, under the Bolivian investment funds' current restructuring process , which led to
the merging of the FIS and other Funds in the new Directorio Unico de Fondos (DUF), the FPS (Ex-
FIS) is carrying out specific tasks to solve several issues highlighted in the agency capacity
assessment.  The risks identified in the assessment include, among others: (i) the possibility of
interference from inexperienced procurement staff in procurement management at the FPS, as a result
.of the aforementioned restructuring process, and at health regional offices and health districts; (ii)
unrealistic procurement planning at health regional offices and districts due to weak capacity to use
this planning tool; (iii) the need to improve procurement filing at both central and department levels of
the FPS as they do not currently have the organization or the capacity to undertake filing tasks
properly; and (iv) the lack of an integrated management information system in place at the FPS to
support project monitoring and supervision at different stages of the project cycle. The PIUs have had
discussions with the Bank project team on measures to be taken for addressing those risks. They are
presented in the action plan included in each agency capacity assessment report. They would involve:
(i) promoting a Bank procurement training program for the less experienced staff; (ii) providing
support and guidance to health regional offices in SEDES, health districts, and municipalities in the
preparation of regional POAs and procurement plans and discussing both plans with the BANK; (iii)
hiring a consultant at the FPS to design and help implement a professional filing system, including the
enhancement of project document management and routing; and (iv) expediting the completion and
implementation of an integrated management information system for adequate monitoring and control
of procurement and administrative tasks at the FPS.
The monitoring of procurement actions by project implementing agencies and the carrying out of
procurement audits are key activities envisaged in the action plan, with a specific allocation of human
and financial resources. Ex-post reviews of contracts awarded under this project are foreseen with
Bank procurement specialists. Document filing is to improve after the new system is implemented and
is expected to comply with the Bank's requirements. The new system will specify the procurement
documents to be filed, the PIU staff who would have access to the files, and the internal security
measures for record-keeping.
The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE.
Although the overall risk assessment assigned to the project for managing procurement is AVERAGE,
due to present risk factors observed at the FPS, a high-risk-equivalent-level threshold was assigned for
prior review of civil works contracts. A weak capacity to administer procurement functions at the
60



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
departmental and municipal levels is a major key factor in establishing such level of risk. The lack of
an integrated management information system for project monitoring, supervision, and reporting; and
a filing system for organization and management of project procurement documents, both acceptable
to the Bank, are also key criteria for this recommendation. In the context of the PSAC Project
preparation, DUF recently submitted an Operations Manual to the BANK to be implemented by both
the FPS and the FNDR The Manual indicates that a Project Administration System (SAP) together
with a Financial and Administration System, both under development, will make up the integrated
management information system. It is foreseen that this system will be implemented in the second
semester of 2001. As to the filing system, a consultant firm/individual should be hired by the end of
July 2001 and completion and implementation of such a system expected by end-2001. Currently,
processing of disbursements can be managed with SOEs or through the LACI system. In the latter
case, the MSPS's PIU is ELIGIBLE for PMR-based disbursements on procurement reporting grounds.
(C) Procurement Plan
At an early project preparation stage, the Borrower's agencies developed a preliminary procurement
plan for project implementation, which provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the
procurement methods (per Table A). This plan should be approved by the RPA and a copy should be
in the project files. At the beginning of each- calendar year, and every six months thereafter, the
Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan, including a detailed procurement schedule for the
forthcoming semester and a preliminary plan for the subsequent semester.
(D) Monitorinn and Progress Reporting
Beginning with the completion of each fiscal year of project implementation, the PIUs will prepare
annual implementation reports (achievements, component implementation status and possible issues
with remedial actions). These reports will include an updated Annual Operation Plan (POA) for the
implementation of project components during the corresponding fiscal year. The POA will be in turn
the basis for the preparation and submission of the procurement schedule.
(E) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment
of the PIU report recommended carrying out two full supervision missions, including one special
supervision mission for procurement ex-post review/audits) and field visits. Based on the overall risk
assessment (AVERAGE), the annual ex-post review analysis should cover a sample of not less than I
in 5 contracts signed.
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over the project's implementation period of about four
years (plus six months to disburse on outstanding commitments), to be completed by December 30,
2005. The project closing date would be June 30, 2006 (six months after completion date).
Disbursements would be made against the following categories (i) Civil works; (ii) Goods; (iii)
Technical Assistance; (iv) Operating costs; and (iv) Health Worker Salaries. See Table 6(c) for
allocation of Loan Proceeds.
61



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Retroactive Financing
The approximate amount to be financed retroactively is US$3.5 million. However, all retroactive
financing is expected to be within the maximum period of 12 months prior to the expected date of
Credit Agreement signing, as stated in the DCA.
Financial management Assessments and Action Plan
Financial management assessments for both implementing entities have been conducted and the
assessments are included in the project permanent files (see Annex 8). As described in Section 4, an
Action Plan was prepared for the FPS implementing entity, as follows below:
(i) Decentralization process. It was agreed that once the procedures for decentralization of
administrative and financial functions to regional offices are defined and preparation of manual is
completed FPS should submit them to the Bank for its no objection. The date for this will depend on
the date for changes in current delegation of authority, no action is required if while the current
arrangements apply.
(ii) Accounting system. In relation to the accounting system and the financial information prepared,
FPS has to consider the following issues:
Separate Accounts. We could verify that in general, separate accounts have been established for each
agreement. However, it is important that the accounting system provide balances by credit/trust fund
agreement for all the accounts that record the use of special account funds (e.g. advances to
contractors, counterpart funds) and permits the preparation of proper reconciliation using the balances
and information of the accounting records. It was agreed the modifications to the accounting system
will be made by the end of 2001 so that these operations will carry credit specific codes.
Counterpart funds. FPS should strengthen the internal controls over the use and collection of
counterpart funds as well as their recording in the accounting system and the reports that may need to
be produced to permit preparation of financial statements required by the Bank. It was agreed that
counterfunding will be booked separately by credit by the end of 2001.
Local currency bank account. Currently FPS uses one local currency bank account to which transfers
from the different special accounts are made. Separate sub-accounts for each agreement have been
established in the accounting chart to control funds by credit/trust agreement. It is important to
mention that the reconciliation process carried out as of December 31, 2000 determined the exact and
correct balances of each one of these separate accounts the entity, now, has to implement all the
mechanisms and procedures sub-account records regarding each one of the credit/trusts are kept up-to-
date and reconciled. It was agreed that separate fiscal accounts ( local currency accounts) will be used
for each bank credit/trust fund by the end of 2001.
Withdrawal Applications and Special Account
For project execution purposes, two Special Deposit Accounts (SA) would be opened and maintained
in US Dollars at the Banco Central de Bolivia (Central Bank of Bolivia) on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the BANK: one of them to be used by the URS within the Ministry of Health (Special
Account A), and the other to be used by the FPS (Special Account B). Financing of SA operating
charges will be charged to Operating Costs where they are related to specific payments out of the SA.
Deposits into the Special Accounts and replenishments up to the authorized allocations set out in the
DCA and the disbursement letters, would be made initially on the basis of Applications for
62



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other documentation as specified in
the Disbursement Handbook.
Once transition to PMR-based disbursements for PCU is agreed upon(as described hereafter),
replenishment applications should be submitted at quarterly (or other agreed period) intervals, and
must be accompanied by the PMRs.
PMR Reporting
The project implementing agencies have agreed to prepare Project Management Reports in accordance
with the guidelines presented in Project Management Manual ( Exposure Draft February, 1999) and
will present these quarterly to the Bank. The URS has already this capacity and FPS will incorporate
the reporting requirements in the changes to the systems to be developed in 2001. It is clear that the
Implementing Units have the option to move to PMR based disbursements once both agencies have
demonstrated a clear capacity and familiarity with the related reports and are both certified by the
Bank to use this option.
Financial Audit Arrangements
An independent external audit firm, acceptable to the Bank, would be hired to carry out annual audits
of the project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and consistent with
relevant Bank publications regarding auditing. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished
to the Association no later than six months after the closing date of the previous fiscal year.
Additionally, an entity audit is required for the FPS. Auditing fees for the Ministry of Health
Component are incremental expenses and are to be covered by Consulting Services, no provision is
made for financing FPS projects or entity audit fees.
63



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method                         Total Cost
ICB         NCB           Other    NBF
1. Works                                                          I
(a) For all components except               0.00         0.00          1.1 9a/                       1.19
subprojects of Component II(B)             (0.00)       (0.00)         (1.19)                       (1.0)
(b) For subprojects of Component                          .43           1.37                         1.80
11(B)                                                    (.36)         (1.14)                       (1.50)
2. Goods
(a) For all components except               3.51         1.85         32.73/b                       38.09
subprojects of Component II(B)             (2.70)       (1.50)         (2.29)                      (6.49)
(b) For subprojects of Component            0.00         2.70           2.50                        5.20
II(B)                                      (0.00)       (2.00)         (1.75)                      (3.75)
3. Consultant Services
(a) For all components except                                         6.81 c/                       6.81
subprojects of Component II(B)                    _                    (6.81)                      (6.81)
(b) For subprojects of Component                                       0.75                         0.75
|_II(B)                                                                (0.75)                       (0.75)
| 4. Health Workers                                                     13.5                         13.5
__________   (13.5)                       (13.5)
5. Operational Costs                                                   2.80                         2.80
_____l__         (1.20)                       (1.20)
Total                                       3.51         4.98          61.51                        70.0
l  (2.70)      (3.6)         (28.44)                       (35.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-financing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements for
the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or
in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Footnotes
a/ Three quotations (i.e.: Small works procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation . The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully).
b/ Shopping (National and International). Contracts awarded in accordance with the methods described in paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of Section III in the Procurement Guidelines
b/ PAHO: contracts awarded for supply of vaccines and syringes in an amount not less than $200,000 equivalent and conducted
by PAHO/WHO. PAHO will procure vaccines and syringes in an open unrestricted competitive manner consistent with Bank
procedures for goods and will charge a fee for the cost of the services. Bank financing provides for 7.0% of overall costs of an
immunization program over a four-year period estimated to cost $40.0 million with co-financing of the GOB and donors
countries.
c/ Consultants' Services. Contracts awarded to firms using Quality-and-Cost-Based selection (QCBS) and Least Cost selection
(up to an aggregate amount of $50,000) and to individual consultants in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultants
Guidelines (up to an aggregate amount of $11,220,000).
or:
c/ Consultants' Services. Details provided in Table A-1
64



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                               Selection Method                               Total Cost
Services                                                                               (including
Expenditure                                                                            contingencies)
Category                  _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _  _ _  __ _ _ _              _ _ _
QCBS   QBS   SFB    LCS    CQ    Other N.B.F
A. Firms             3.20                           0.05                 .72                  3.97
(3.20)   (      )    ()       (0.05)   (      ) ( )            )        (3'-97)
B. Individuals                                                          3.59                  3.59
_  (     )_ (       )  (    )  (       )  (       )  ~~~~~~~~(3.59)   ()    (1 1.2)
Total                3.20                           0.05                4.31                  7.56
(3.20)   (      )  (    )   (0.05)   (        )   (4.31)   ( )          (7.56)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices,
etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
65



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value          Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review
US $                                      US $ millions
1. Works           = > 3,000,000           ICB               All
< 3,000,000 but        NCB                All
>250,000
< = 250,000             Three Quotations   Prior Review: twice-yearly review
(PSW)             of procurement plan.
As provided in the      Other Methods of  As provided in the Procurement
Procurement Plan        Procurement       Plan
2. Goods           = >200,000              ICB               All
<200,000 but > 50,000    NCB              Each contract with estimated price
of $100,000 or more
< = 50,000              Local!            Prior Review: twice-yearly review
International     of Procurement Plan
Shopping (L/I S)
As provided in the      Other Methods of  As provided in the Procurement
Procurement Plan        Procurement       Plan
3. Consultants     As provided in the      QCBS               Prior Reviev for Consultants: All
(Firms)            Selection Plan                             TORs, short lists and full review
of technical and final evaluation
reports of each contract estimated
to cost $100,000 or more.
QCBS              Prior review for Consultants:
twice-yearly review of Selection
Plan under agreed TORs.
As provided in the      Other Methods of  As provided in the Selection Plan.
Selection Plan          Selection
(Individuals)                             IC (See Section V   Prior Review for Consultants: All
of Guidelines)    (TOR, contract, CV) of each
contract estimated to cost $35,000
equivalent or more.
Post Review for Consultants:
random sample of contracts
estimated to cost less than $35,000
equivalent.
IC (See Section V   Prior Review for Consultants:
of Guidelines)    twice-yearly review of Selection
Plan under agreed standard TORs.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:             $7.62 (19%)
I'ercentage estiinated over a toLal amount ol $40.225 million which( does not cotisikier S29.75 million from donor coonilries.
66



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High=
AverageX
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s) (includes one
special procurement supervision for post-review) reviewing a sample of I in 5 contracts signed.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                     Amount in US$      Financing Percentage
thousands
equivalent*
1. Civil Works
- For all components except subprojects under Component       1.0                   85%
ll(B)
- For subprojects under Component II(B)                       1.5
2. Goods
-For all components except subprojects under Component       6.49              100% of foreign
II(B)                                                                           expenditures
77% of local
expenditures
- For subprojects under Component l(B)                        3.75
3. Consulting Services
- For all components except subprojects under Component       6.81                 100%
II(B)
- For subprojects under Component II(B)                       0.75
4. Health Workers: staff bonuses and salaries, and            13.5          For expenditures
transportation and food expenses                                           made on or before
December 31, 2002:
100%; for
expenditures made
after December 31,
2002 but on or
before December 31,
2004: 80%; and
thereafter: 60%
5. Incremental Operating Costs: operational expenses for      1.20                  85%
project coordination, monitoring and supervision                      _
Total Project Costs                                           35.0
Unallocated          0.0
Total                                                         35.0
* The exchange rate for SDRs is: 1.27227 USD for 1 SDR
67



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Project Schedule                                  Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       2.5 months
First Bank mission (identification)              04/23/2001            04/23/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      05/23/2001            05/23/2001
Negotiations                                     05/29/2001            05/28/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/30/2001                --
Prepared by: Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance: none
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Daniel Cotlear                           Task Team Leader
Evangeline Javier                        Country Sector Leader
John Lincoln Newman                       Program Coordinator/Resident Representative
Cynthia Lopez                            Health Specialist
Judith McGuire                           Nutrition Specialist
Michele Gragnolati                       HNP Economist
Ruth Levine                               Senior Health Economist
Marian Kaminskis                          Project Assistant
Charles Griffin                          Health Sector Manager
Rudolf Van Puymbroeck                     Peer Reviewer
Amie Batson                               Peer Reviewer
Adam Wagstaff                            Peer Reviewer
Jerker Liljestrand                       Peer Reviewer
David Varela                             Legal Counsel
Xiomara Morel                            Financial Management Specialist
Paul Sisk                                Financial Management Specialist
Keisgner Alfaro                          Procurement Specialist
Luis Perez                               Health Consultant - Public Health
Manuel Vasquez Valdes                    Health Consultant (PAHO) - Human Resources
Hernan Rosenberg                         PAHO Staff- Health Systems
Gina Tambini                             PAHO Staff- Immunizations
Osvaldo Barrezueta                        PAHO Staff- Immunizations
Pablo Aguilar                             PAHO Staff - Environmental Health
68



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
ARMA PINANGIA AbNMMS1'A1*A
ANO DE       TIPO DE
CODIGO   |NOMBRE DEL DOCUMENTO                      IAUTOR                 ELABORACION  DOCUMENTO
FIN-01    COMPROMISOS DE GESTION (DOCUMENTO TEORICO) LIC. FRANCISCO ARDAYA    seo-98         el
FIN-02    COMPROMISOS DE GESTION SUSCRITO CON                    ARA
CHUQUISACA Y EN NEGOCIACION CON COCHABAMBA  LIC. FRANCISCO ARDAA     oc-98     _ B
FIN-03    PRESUPUESTO POR COMPONENTES DEL PROYECTO  LIC. FRANCISCO ARDAYA      nov-98        Bl
FIN-04    CONVENIO TIPO PARA FIRMA DE COMPROMISOS DE   LIC. FRANCISCO ARDAYA
GESTION                                      .nov-98                               Bl
FIN-05    COMPROMISOS DE GESTION - DOCUMENTO DE     LIC. FRANCISCO ARDAYA                    Bl
DIFUSION                                                             ,-8D
FIN-O6    ORGANIZACION ESTRUCTURAL Y PROCESOS       URS E ING. JORGE
TECNICOS DEL PROYECTO                      CAVERO                    nov-98         BI
FIN-07    ESTRUCTURA FINANCIERA Y ORGANIZACION TECNICA  URS Y LIC WiLFORD
DEL PROYECTO                               PACHECO                   nov-98        Sl
FIN-08    PROCESOS GENERALES. PROCESOS DE           URS Y LIC WILFORD
COMPROMISOS DE GESTION Y PROCESOS          PACHECO
ADMINISTRATIVOS DEL PROYECTO                                         nov-98         Bl
FIN-09    INFORME EVALUACION ANUAL DE 6 INDICADORES 1999 LIC.TATIANA RUILOBA   mar-00        Bl
FIN-10    MUNICIPIOS EN RIESGO 1999                 LIC TATIANA RUILOBA       mar-00         Bl
FIN-11    INFORME EVALUACION ANUAL DE 11 INDICADORES   LIC.TATIANA RUILOBA
12000                                                                mar-01         Bl
FIN-12    MUNICIPIOS EN RIESGO 2000                  LIC.TATIANA RUIL6BA       mar-01   Bl
FIN-13    DOCUMENTO INDICADORES 2001                 LICTATIANA RUILOBA        mar-01        Bl
FIN-14    COMPROMISOS DE GESTION - DOCUMENTO DE     LIC. TATIANA RUILOBA
. .DIUSO                                                                  nOY-00         Bl
FIN-15    COMPROMISOS DE GESTION 1999                _GSS                      mar-99        Bl
FIN-l6   COMPROMISOS DE GESTION 2000                 DGSS                      mar-00        Bl
FIN-17    INSTRUMENTOS DE EVALUACION DE COMP.DE      OPS
I_______ (3ESTION 20001 OPS                                                   mar-01         Bl
FIN-18    INFORME DE EJECUCION FINANCIERA DEL PROYECTO  LIC. FRANCISCO ARDAYA  mar-01        Bl
FJIN     MODULO ADMINISTRATIVO PARA LA GESTION       LIC. XIMENA SANCHEZ       mar-01        Bl
DESCONCENTRADA DE RECURSOS DE GENERCION
I________ LOCAL                                                               mar-01         Si
IJ-20   IS1SEMA DE LOGISTICA -PAI                    LIC. XIMENA SANCHEZ       mar-01        Bl
FJN-21    SISTEMA DE CONTROL - SBS                  ILIC. XIMENA SANCHEZ       mar-01        el
IN-22   IGESTION LOCAL DEL SBS                      ILIC. XIMENA SANCHEZ       mar-01        Bl
CODIGO,ANODE                                                                               TIPODE
NOMBRE DEL DOCUMENTO                       AUTOR                 ELABORACION  DOCUMENTO
PAI-1    PROYECTO DE APOYO A LA REFORMA DE SALUD -SUB- TERCERA MISION DEL
COMPONENTE PROGRAMA AMPLIADO DE            BANCO MUNDIAL
INMUNIZACION                                                         SeP-98         B
PAI42    INFORME EVALUACION DE PROGRAMA AMPLIADO DE  MINISTERIO DE SALUD DE
INMUNIZACIONES                             BOLIVIA Y OPS             Oct-98        ES
PAI-03    INFORME DE ASESORIA TECNICA EN EL AREA DE  ING. VICTOR GOMEZ -OPS
CADENA DE FRIO                                                       nov-98        ES
PAI-04    PLAN QUINQUENAL DEL PROGRAMA AMPLIADO DE    MINISTERIO DE SALUD DE
INMUNIZACIONES                             BOLIVIA Y OPS             nov-98        ES
PAI4-5                                               ROBERTHO BORTH, JUAN
EVALUACION PROGRAMA AMPLIADO DE INMUNIZACION CARLOS MALLO Y VIRGILIO
PRIETO                    nov-98        E
PAI4-6    DOCUMENTO DE PAI II (INFORME DE PROGRESO DEL
PLAN QUINOUENAL)                           PAI                       mar-01         8
69



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
AND DE      TIPO DE
CODIGO  NOMBRE DEL DOCUMENTO                         AUTOR                 ELABORACION  DOCUMENTO
INF401    DOCUMENTO EJECUTIVO SOBRE INFRAESTRUCTURA  SUSSY BAZAN, XIMENA
FISICA, EQUIPAMIENTO Y RECURSOS DE UNIDADES DE LOURDES MONCADA Y
SALUD__    __________________________________  MONICA  SARAVIA       dir97         ES
INF402    CRITERIOS DE LA POBLACION POR MUNICIPIOS  ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
INF-03    ANALISIS DE LA POBLACION BOIVIANA POR MUNICIPIOS ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.  mar-98   Bl
INF-04    PROYECTO DE FORTALECIMIENTO DE
INFRAESTRUCTURA Y EQUIPAMIENTO DE LOS     ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
SERVICIOS DE 1ER NIVEL Y HOSPITALES DE DISTRITO
_ PRESENTADO A LA UNION EUROPEA                                      mar-98       Bli
INF45    DOCUMENTO DEL FONDO CONCURSABLE DE          ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
INVERSION EN SALUD IFOCSIS)                Y FIS                     iun-98        13
INF-04   MODIFICACION DEL DOCUMENTO DEL FOCSIS A LA   ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
PROPUESTA DE MECANISMOS DE ASIGNACION DE    Y FIS
RECURSOS MAR                               YFIS                      ocd-98        Bl
INF4-7   GUIA DE FORMULACION DE PROYECTOS DEL FOCSIS  ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.L
INF48    ADECUACION DE LA GUIA DE FORMULACION DE     ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
PROYECTOS DEL FOCSIS                       Y FIS                     ot-98          Bl
INF4OS                                              ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
CRITERIOS DE ELEGIBILIDAD PARA EL FOCSIS  IN FIS    PER                             BlS
INF-10    PROPUESTA PRELIMINAR FOCC                 DR. FERNANDO CISNEROS
PROPUESTA PRELIMINAR FOCC  ~ ~ ~ ' FIS                     unm-98       ESi
INF-i 1  ANALISIS DE CRIrERIOS DE ELEGIBILIDAD      ING CRISTIAN PEREI RA S.
INF-12    DETALLE DEL CICLO DE PROYECTOS DEL MAR     ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
_______ ______ _______ ______ _______ ____   Y   FIS      se -9          SIL
INF413    RESUMEN DEL PROYECTO PILOTO EN HOJAS       ING. CRISTIAN PEREIRA S
EJECUTIVAS                                  _______98__B__
INF-14    DOCUMENTO DE DIFUSION Y PRESENTACION DEL MAR ING. CRISTIAN PEREIRA S
IMECANISMO DE ASIGNACION DE RECURSOSt                                od_-98        Bl
INF-15    PROPUESTA DE PILOTAJE                     ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S     nov-98        el
INF-1                                                ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
GUIA DE P RES ENTAC ION DE PROY ECTOS      Y FIS                     nov-98
INF-17    INFORME MAR (MECANISMOS DE ASIGNACION DE   ING CRISTIAN PEREIRA S.
_ RECURSOS EN SALUDO                       YFIS                      m-01           Bl
70



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
AREA SAW-
Aho DE      TIPO DE
CODIGO   NOMBRE DEL DOCUMENTO                       AUTOR                 ELABORACION  DOCUMENTO
SAL-01                                              CARLOS JUANES,
BASE DE DATOS Y ANALISIS DE ESTRUCTURA DE  FERNANDO RIVERO,
COSTOS EN EL AREA MATERNO tNFANTIL        MERCADO Y RAMIRO LA
FUENTE                   nw-97         ES
SAL-02    CALIDAD DE LA ATENCION DEL PARTO EN LOS   MIGUEL ANGEL
DISTINTOS NIVELES DE RESOLUCION EN BOLIVIA  FERNANDEZ               jul-98        ES
SAL-03    PROPUESTA DE ASPECTOS OPERATIVOS ESCENCIALES
PARA IMPLEMENTAR UN FONDO CONCURSABLE EN EL GUIDO MONASTERIOS
MARCO DEL PROYECTO DEL MINISTERIO CON EL
BANCO MUNDIAL                                                       jul-98        ES
SAL-04                                              RAMIRO MAMANI, ESTHER
TENDENCIAS Y CONDUCTAS EN LA UTILIZACION DE   MOLDES Y FANNY
SERVICIOS DE SALUD                        CORNEJO                   iuI-98        ES
SAL-0s   TENDENCIAS Y CONDUCTAS EN LA UTILIZACION DE    RAMIRO MAMANI, ESTHER
SERVICIOS DE SALUD-TRABAJO DE             MOLDES Y FANNY
COMPLEMENTACION SATISFACCION DEL USARIO   CORNEJO                   nov-98        ES
SAL-06                                              CHARLES BEDREGAL,
MILENKA ROSSEL, OLGA
EVALUACION DEL SISTEMA NACIONAL DE SALUD-  SOLIZ, MERY LOREDO,
NUEVO MODELO SANITARIO BOLIVIANO          HENRRY ZABALETA Y
._______  _______________________________________ "VICTOR  ZAPATA   nov-98        ES
SAL-07    DOCUMENTO DE CHALLAPATA                   LIC MARINA CARDENAS-
DOCUMENTO DE CHALLAPATA        ~~~~ABRIR SALUD           marQl.        SAL.
SAL-O8    SALUD FAMILIAR Y COMUNITARIA (ABRIR -SALUD)    LIC MARINA CARDENAS-  ma          SAL
SAL-09    DOCUMENTO DE SAN LORENZO                  DR. GERMAN CRESPO-
_______   ___ __________ ___________ __________ CANA A          mar-01        SA
SAL-10   SALUD FAMILIAR Y COMUNITARIA (CANADA)      CANADA                   rnar-01       SAL
SAL-t1    MAPA NACIONAL DE SALUD MATERNA Y NEONATAL    iNAP                   d00           ES
SAL-12   PLAN NACIONAL DE SALUD MATERNA Y NEONATAL    UNAP                    dic-00        Bl
OTRASAREAS
CODIGO   NOMBRE DEL DOCUMENTO                       AUTOR                    ABO  DE      TIPO DE
OTR-1    MARCO INSTITUCIONAL                        LIC. MARCELO BARRON       oct-98        Bl
OTR-02   PROYECTO DEL DS SEDES 25060                LIC. MARCELO BARRON       oct-98        Bl
OTR-03   PLAN DE COMUNICACION SOCIAL                LIC. FRANCO CLAVIJO       oct-98        ES
OTR-04   DOCUMENTO DE MATRIZ ORDENADORA             DR. GUIDO MONASTERIOS     nov-00  .     B
OTR45H06~ MATRIZ ORDENADORA LLENADA                 DR. GUIDO MONASTERIOS     dic-00        Bl
OTR4fs   MATRIZ DE SEGUIMIENTO AL PES               DR, GUIDO MONASTERIOS    en%01          Bl
OTR407                                              UCAP-UNIDAD DE
DOCUMENTO DE CARRERA SANITARIA            CAPACITACION RRHH
MSPS                     mar-01        Bl
OTR-B    EL PROCESO DE REFORMA DE SALUD             DR. FERNANDO LAVADENZ                   B
OTR-09   LEY DEL SEGURO UNIVERSAL DE SALUD          EQUIPO MSPS-SENADO        dic00         BI
OTR-10    D.S. DE CONTRATOS DE GESTION              MSPS                      jun-99        Bl
OTR-1I                                              DIRECCION GENERAL DE
PROPUESTA DE R.M. CONGRESO BOLIVIANO DE SALUD SERVICIOS DE SALUD-
MSPS                     mar-0L         Bl
OTR-12   PROPUESTA MSPS A DUF (POLITICA NAL. DE
COMPENSACION DE LA INVERSION MUNICIPAL)   MSPS                      mar-01        B
OTR-13   INFORME DEL SNIS                           SNIS                     abr-01        OTR
OTR-14    MODULO DE CAPACITACION PARA EL USO DE WNZIG  10PS                                OTR
71



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Af4O DE     TlPO DE
CODIGO   NOMORE DEL DOCUMENTO                       AUTOR                 ELABORACION  DOCUMENTO
SBS-01    COBEURAS  LARINA CARDENAS                                          mas98          Bl
S-042    PROYECTO DE DECRETO SUPREMO SBS            MARINA CARDENAS          mav-98         Bl
SBS3-0    ANALISIS TECNICO FINANCIERO DEL PAI       MARINA CARDENAS         ,m,a-09       Bi
SBS-04    ESTIMACION DE COSTOS DE LAS PRESTACIONES DEL  MARINA CARDENAS      ago-98         Bl
SBS
SBSS05    SEGURO BASICO DE SALUD -DOCUMENTO DE      MARINA CARDENAS           oct-98        Bl
DIFUSIONY DOCUMENTO DE DISCUSI6N
SBS46.o MUNICIPIOS                                  MARINA CARDENAS           oct-De        Bl
SBS-07    CONVENIO TIPO PARA PREFECTURAS Y GOBIERNOS   MARINA CARDENAS        oct-98        Bl
IMUNICIPALES CON SBS
SBS-08    CONVENIO TIPO PARA AUTONOMIZACION DE      MARINA CARDENAS           oct-98        Bl
HOSPITALES CON SBS Y RS
SBS-09    CALCULO FINANCIERO DEL IMPACTO DEL SBS    MARINA CARDENAS          nov-98         Bl
SBS-10    ESTUDIO DE CUENTAS NACIONALES DE GASTO EN    EQUIPO HARVARD        jun-98         ES
SALUD EN BOLIVIA -PROYECTO HARVARD
SBS-11    MEJORAMIENTO DE LA CALIDAD DE ATENCION.   EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS     may-98         Si
ESTANDARES E INDICADORES SBS
SBS-12   PROGRAMA DE COMUNICACION EDUCATIVA - SBS   EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS     mav-98
SBS-13   10 PRIMERAS CAUSAS DE NOTIFICACION         EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS     may-98         Bl
ENFERMEDADES TRANSMISIBLES Y DANOS DE SALUD-
SBS
SBS-14    MANUAL DE NORMAS TECNICAS DE ATENCION A LA   EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS  may-98         Bl
NINEZ-SBS_
SBS-15   INSTRUMENTAL Y EQUIPO DE LABORATORIO       EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS     may-98         B1
NECESARIO POR NIVEL DE ATENCION-SBS
SBS-16   ESTIMACION DEL COSTO DEL INSTRUMENTAL Y EQUIPO EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS  may-98        BI
==______ MEDICO-SBSS
SBS-17    MANUAL DE NORMAS TECNICAS DE PROMOCION Y    EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS   may-98         BI
I______ IREHABILITACION NUTRICIONAL-SBS
SBS18   TPAQUETE DE MEDICAMENTOS E INSUMOS SBS     1EOUIPO UNICEF YMSPS         mv-98       il
SBS-19    MANUAL DE NORMAS TECNICAS DE LABORATORIO,   EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS   may-98         Bl
MANUAL DE PROCEDIMIENTOS ADMINISTRATIVOS Y
MANUAL DEL COMITE NACIONAL DE COORDINACION
iDEL SBS
SBS-20    MANUAL DE NORMAS TECNICAS DE ATENCION A LA   EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS  may-98         Bl
MUJER
SBS-21    DETERMINACION DE COSTOS DE MEDICAMENTOS E   EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS   may-98         Bl
INSUMOS DEL SBS
ISBS22    GUIA PARA LOS USUARIOS SBS                EQUIPO UNICEF Y MSPS     m3v-98         Bl
|SBS-23  |DOCUMENTO DE LINEAS ESTRATEGICAS SBS      EQUIPO SBS                m r41i        Bl
ISBS.24 r  IACTUALIZACION DE COSTOS DEL SBS         GRUPO EQUIDAD            mr1l           Rl
SBS-25   ESTUDIO DE COSTOS DEL SBS (PHRI            PHR   _mr-01                            ES
SBS-26    DOCUMENTO DE RONDAS MEDICAS              IUIPO SBS                 mar-01         il
ISBS-27  IGUIA TECNICA DE MANCOMUNIDADES            NICOLE SCHWAB     _        wai m-iL.B
ISBS-2    ROPUESTA OSERVATORIO EQUIDAD               COLE SCHWAB              mar-0         B
SBS-29  fDOCUMENTO OPS DE CUENTAS NACIONALES       lOPS                       *br41. Bl
72



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
ARMA &ALWFStLCA
CODIGO   NOMBRE DEL DOCUMENTO                       AUTOR                    ANOR DE     TIPO DE
ELA130RACION DOCUMENTO
SP-41    INFORME SOBRE CONSTITUCION DE REDES DE     VICTOR ZAPATA, OLGA
SERVICIOS Y COBERTURAS ALCANZADAS EN LOS  SOLIZ, LISBETH ROSSEL Y
PRIORIZADOS DEL MODELO DE ATENCION        MERY LOREDO               nov-97        ES
SP42     GUIA DE IMPLEMENTACION PERFIL DE PROYECTO    LIC MARIA LUISA SALINAS  mar-98       Bl
SP-03    PLAN ESTRATEGICO DE SALUD WARNES, SANTA CRUZ, 
COLCAPIRHUA, COCHABAMBA, EL ALTO Y LA PAZ  MA.LUISA SALINASma-8                    I
SP-04    PLAN NACIONAL IMCI                         EQUIPO TECNICO
NACIONAL IMCI NACIONAL    jUn-9        B1
SP-05    PLAN REGIONAL IMCI, LA PAZ, CBBA Y SANTA CRUZ    LIC. MARIA LUISA SALINAS
SP-06    APERTURA PROGRAMATICA PAQUETE MATERNO     LIC MA.LUISA SALINAS
NIONATAL                                                             ul__ _98___B__
SP-07    PLAN NACIONAL PAQUETE MATERNO NEONATAL (MBP EQUIPO TECNICO
1999-2001)                                NACIONAL MUJER-NINO       seQ-98        Bl
SP-08    PLAN DEPARTAMENTAL PAQUETE MATERNO NEONATAL EQUIPO TECNICO DEPTAL
LPZ.CBBA.SCZ (MBP 99/01)           _      MUJER-NINO                se_-98        Bl
SP-O9    PLAN NAL. ATENCION INTEGRAL DE ENFERMEDADES
PREVALENTE DE LA INFANCIA (IMCI)SALINAS 0se-98                                    Bl
SP-10    PLAN DEPTAL LA PAZ, CBBA Y SCZ ATENCION
INTEGRAL DE ENFERMEDADES PREVALENTES DE LA  LIC MA.LUISA SALINAS
_NFANCIA (IMCI) 1992001                        _oct98                             BI
SP-11    INFORME PRELIMINAR "ESTUDIO RED OBSTETRICA Y  EQUIPO DE
NEONATAL LPZ. CBBA Y SCZ                  CONSULTORES               nov-98        Si
SP-12    REDES PUBLICAS DESCENTRALIZADAS Y          GRUPO EQUIDAD
COMUNITARIAS DE SALUD EN BOLIVIA                                    abr-01 Bl
SP 13    CONTRATO DE GESTION DEL H. 3OLIVIANO HOLANDES GRUPO EQUIDAD
..   :  =                                                 rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~av-00  Bl
SP-14    GESTION AUTONOMA DE HOSPITALES             ORA. MA ELENA ZABALA     mar-o1         BI
SP-ii.EVALUACION MUNICIPAL                          DRA. MA ELENA ZABALA     mar-01 Bl
SP.16                                               DR. ANTONIO SARAVIA V.,
MANUAL DE PROCEDIMIENTOS DEL PSF          DRA. MA.CECILIA PRIETO
_____  6B. PSF/BID                             Bl
SP-17    REDES DE SERVICIOS SOCIALES PARA EL
_     _  DESARROLLO DE LA SALUD MATERNA Y NEONATAL                           mav40         Sl
SP-18    OBSERVATORIO DE CALIDAD                    LIC. MA.LUISA SALINAS    mar-01         Sl
SP-19    EVALUACION DE HOSPITALES                   LIC. TATIANA RUILOBA     mar-01         Bl
SP-20    AUDITORIA DE RECETAS                       UNAMEL                   mar-00         Bl
SP-21    DOCUMENTO DE EXTENSION COMUNITARIA (ESPANA)                                        ES
73



Annex 9: Bolivia Statement of IFC and World Bank Loans and Credits
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Bolivia
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval       Companv         Loan Equity Ouasi Partic Loan Equitv Ouasi Partic
1976/88/90/91/95/98 BISA              0   0.46      0     0     0   0.46      0     0
1989/92/94/96/00   COMSUR             10     0      0     0    10      0      0     0
1999 Caja Los Andes    1.6      0     0     0   1.6       0     0      0
1991 Central Aguirre    0.13   0.35   0     0  0.13   0.35      0      0
1999 Electropaz         25      0     0     0    15       0     0      0
1993 GENEX            0.07      0  0.45     0  0.07       0  0.45      0
1999 Illimani           15      1     0     0  6.15       1     0      0
1992 Inti Raymi          0      0     5     0      0      0     5      0
1996 Mercantil-BOL    7.86      0     0     0  7.86       0     0      0
0/89              Minera               0    0.4     0     0     0    0.4      0     0
1996 Telecel Bolivia    4.44    0  3.89  8.89  4.44       0  3.89  8.89
Total Portfolio:          64.1   2.21  9.34  8.89 45.25   2.21  9.34  8.89
ApDrovals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Ouasi Partic
2001 TelecelIl       10000      0  5000 17000
2001 Banco Ganadero  5000       0      0     0
Total Pending Commitment:     15000      0  5000 17000
74



Annex 12:
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio) As of April 13, 2001
Closed Projects:         61
IBRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)           244.90
of which has been repaid      0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)            1,248.10
of which has been repaid      413.90
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)   1,493.05
of which has been repaid      413.90
Total Undisbursed (Active)         306.76
Total Undisbursed (Closed)         2.07
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)   308.83
Active Proiects
Last PSR
Supervision Ratin!                         Orieinal Amount in
US$ Millions
Project ID                      Project Name                     Dev. Obiectives  ImR. Progress    Fiscal Year    IBRD  IDA GRANT Cancel.
P055230       ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY                                      S                S              1999            0   88         0       0
P006204       BO- EDUCATION QUALITY                                     S                S              1998            0   75         0       0
P006181        BO- EDUCATION REFORM                                     S                S              1995            0   40         0       0
P060392       BO- HEALTH REFORM                                        HS               HS              1999            0   25         0       0
P006196       BO- INTEGRATED CHILD DEV                                  S                S              1993            0  50.7        0      20
P006186       ENV.IND.& MINING                                         U                U               1996            0    11        0       0
P040110       FIN DECEN & ACCT                                          S               HS              1998            0    15        0       0
P065902       HYDROCARBON SECTOR SOCIAL & ENV. (LIL)                    S                S              2000            0   4.8        0       0
P057416       INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT                                                            2001            0     5        0       0
P062790       INST REF (OLD CIV S)                                      S                S              1999            0   32         0       0
P006197       LAND ADMINISTRATION                                       S                S              1995            0  20.4        0       0
P040085       PARTICIP RURAL INV.                                       S               U               1998            0  62.8        0       0
P006180       RD MAINT                                                  S                S              1992            0   80         0       0
P057030       REG REFORM ADJ CREDI                                      S                S              1999            0  41.8        0       0
P057396       REGULATORY REFORM & PRIVATIZATION (TA)                    S                S              1998            0   20         0       0
P006206       RURAL WTR & SANIT                                         S                S              1996            0   20         0       0
P060474       Sustainability of Protected Areas                                                         2001            0    0         0       0
Overall result                                                                                         Result           0 591.5        0      20
75



Annex 10: Bolivia at a Glance
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Bolivia at a glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Bolivia   & Carib.  income      Daveaopmernt diamond
19991
Pooulabon. mid-year (millions)                          8.1       509      2.094                 Life expectancy
GNP Der capita (At/as method, US$)                    1.000      3.840     1.200
GNP (Atas method, US$ billions)                         8.1      1.955     2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                          2.3        1.6       1.1
Labor force%)                                           2.8        2.5       12      GNP                               Gross
per    -          -             pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993499)                                capita                        enmrlmenl
Povertv (% of oonulation below national oovertv linel    67          -
Urban pooulation (% of tota/ powulation)                 62        75        43
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                         62        70        69
Infant mortality (oer 1.000 live births)                 60        31        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                8         8         15               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of DoDulation)        60        75        86
Illiteracy (% ofooDulation aae 1S+)                      15        12         16
Gross ormarv enrollment (% ofschool-aqeoooulabon)       91        113       114               80livia
Male                                                  95                  114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                87                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratlos
GDP 1US$ billions)                             2.7      4.7        8.5       8.3
Gross domestc investmentlGOP                  17.9     11.6       23.1      18.9
Exports of goods and servIees/GDP             29.3     22.5       20.0      17.4    I                Trade
Gross domestc savings/GDP
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                               7.1       12.1      12.3                        T
Current account balance/GDP                  -14.9     -4.8       -7.9      -6.7
Interest payrments/GDP                         4.8      2.0        1.7       2.0    ,Domestc        _             Investment
Total debt/GDP                                95.8     87.6       71.5      74.1     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    33.4     31.8       30.1      31.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                         57.9
Present value of debt/exports                                    317.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -0.9      4.2      5.5        0.6       5.4              rBolivia
GNP per capita                      -2.3       1.8      4.1       -2.2       3.1               Lower-miMle-ioome group
Exports of goods and services        0.3       5.4      6.6       -9.7       7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999     Growlh of Invsment and GDP (%)
(%/ of GDP)                                                                          40
Agriculture                                                       18.9      18.4
Industry                                        ..        .        8.7      18.      2
Manufacturing                                                   62 14.8   14.6
Servces                                          .        ..      62.4      63.5        -         2        t
Private consumption                           74.8     77.1       75.1      76.2    -20
General aovemmentconsumrtron                  15.1     11.9       14.1      14.6                     GDJ    -OGW
Imports of goods and services                 37.1     23.2       32.4      27.1 
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of esperta and Imporb (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                                         20
Industry                                        ..0
Manufacturing                                          4.0       2.6       3        03
Services                                        .                                    .  0                          v 
Private consumpton                             2.9      3.6        5.5       1.9    109
General oovemment consumDtion                 -3.8      3.4        3.5       2.6
Gross domestic investment                     -2.0     10.0       24.4     -162    -26.2
Imports of goods and services                  1.8      6.6       18.5     -15.7                   Exports   -*Imports
Gross national product                        -0.3      4.3        6.6       0.1
Note; 1999 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Innation [%)
Domestic pnces                                                                          Vnlto(
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   ..    16.6         4.4        3.1    10
Implicit GDP deflator                           19.3     13.2        7.0        2.8
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes curent grants) o
Current revenue                                   ..    21.2         23.9      24.6             94    95    96    97    9B       9
Current budget balance                                      -         1.6       2.0             -     GDPdeflator        CPI
Overall surplus/defiat                            .,    -5.7        -4.0       -4.3
TRADE
(US$ milfions)  1979  1989  1998  1999  FEport and Import levels [USS mill.)
(UJSS millbons)
Total exports (fob)                                       723       1,105     1,051     2,000
Tin                                             ..      129          66        69
Zinc                                             ..     214         159       154     1 .505
Manufactures                                    ..  ..  195   220    1                           jjjjjj
Total imports (cio                                        662       1,983     1.755     1     .' 0
Food                                             ..        ....                 .
Fuel and energy                                  ..
Capital goods                                    .
Export Drice index (1995=100)                                         90        84            93   94   95   9B   97   98
Import price index (1995=100)                                         79         .                      Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..       ..       114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS mxillions)
Exports of goods and services                   B65       895      1,356      1,311     0
Imports of goods and services                  1,129    1,026      2,201      1,989
Resource balance                                -264     -131       -844       -678
Net income                                      -184     -249       -160      -205
Net current transfers                            51  156   330  323    1111111
Current account balance                        -397      -225       -675       -559      '
Financing items (net)                           356        85        803       602
Changes in net reserves                          41       140       -1 2B       -42     - -
Memo:
Reserves including oold (USS millions)            ..      361      1,185      1.115
Conversion rate (DEC. iocal/USS)             3.O0E-5       2.7        5.5       5.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999        .
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           2,556    4,132      6,090      6,170
IBRD                                          105       199         26        13                         13
IDA                                            62       325      1,045      1,098              261                 1098
Total debt service                              292       292        468       430
IBRD                                           10        37         16        12                                        244
IDA                                             1         3         13        17
Composition of net resource flows                                                            68
Official grants                                51       178        232
Official creditors                            114       242        102       178
Private creditors                             109       -18        -12       -24
Foreign direct investment                      35       -24        872         ..                         1         1807
Portfolio equity                                0         0                                     1079
World Bank program
Commitments                                    20       101        228       145      A - IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                  36        79         88        82      B - IDA    D - Olher multilateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                            2        20         19        26      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                      34        59         69        56
Interest payments                               9        20         10        10
Net transfers                                  25        39         60        46
Development Economics                                                                                                        916/00
77



Annex 11: Letter of Development Policy
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
La Paz, Bolivia, May 30, 2001
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, NW
F 1227
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
I am very pleased to present you with this health sector policy letter, containing the primary strategies that
our country seeks to implement through the second phase of the Health Reform Program, currently being
negotiated with the World Bank.
The central tenets of the health reforrn program are set our in the "equity pillar" of the Bolivian
Government's anti-poverty plan (1997-2000), which framed the strategies in the first phase of the APL.
The objectives of the equity pillar are to improve the living conditions of the population, particularly
those living in poverty. The second phase of the Health Reform Program continues in this line within the
framework set by the Bolivian Strategy for Poverty Reduction (EBRP), elaborated on the basis of inputs
from all actors of society voiced during the National Dialogue 2000.
Bolivia continues its close relationship with the Bank, through the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
whose main variable is the accelerated reduction of infant mortality. Targets established for the first phase
of the APL for infant and maternal mortality, and set out in the government's Strategic Health Plan are
still valid: infant mortality should fall from 67 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1997, to 48 per 1,000 live
births in 2008. Correspondingly, maternal mortality should be reduced from 390 deaths per 100,000 live
births in 1997, to 320 per 100,000 in 2008.
In order to reach the objectives set forth, as well as to measure both effort and impact, Bolivia will
continue to place great emphasis on systematically monitoring results. The first phase of the program was
successful in expanding the coverage and improving the quality of services included in the Basic Health
Insurance in those areas where there are enough human resources for the effective supply of services. The
second phase of the APL will use the same objectives, indicators and monitoring style, based on the
results of the first phase. The new element introduced by the second phase consists in the support for a
Program for the Extension of Health Coverage (EXTENSA). This program will focus on poor areas and
work through health teams including community agents, auxiliary nurses and itinerant professionals. This
component corresponds to the first priority set out by the Bolivian Strategy for Poverty Reduction
(EBRP).
The second phase will consist of the implementation of the following priority components:
i)    Coverage and quality improvements of the Basic Health Insurance (SBS) and empowerment of
communities
a. Strengthening policy development, regulation and monitoring of the SBS, by supporting the
improvement of the quality of information, and the implementation of activities that empower
78



Annex I1: Letter of Development Policy
b. indigenous users of the SBS.
c. Strengthening national health programs for mothers and children, by supporting the continued
implementation of the Second Generation of the Expanded Program of Immunizations and
IMCI, MBP, nutrition and waste management programs.
ii)    Strengthening local capacity to respond to health needs of the population
a. Support to the National Program for the Extension of Health Coverage (EXTENSA), through
assignment of health teams.
b. Investment subprojects to expand the coverage of the SBS.
iii)    Monitoring of Performance Indicators and Project Coordination.
The areas of intervention proposed for the second phase of the Health Reform Program are aligned with
Government-defined policies, as set forth in Supreme Decree 25233 (the Health Services Department
Regulations) dated November 27, 1998, and Supreme Decree 25265 (creation of the Basic health
Insurance) dated January 25, 1999. In addition, the government commits itself to the creation of
EXTENSA through a Supreme Decree, no later than October Ist 2001. EXTENSA will contract human
resources in health for areas with low coverage, using private short term contracts renewable according to
performance. To make financing sustainable in the long term, the government will assign US$ I million
in 2004, US$ 2.5 million in 2005 and US$ 4.9 million every year starting in 2006, for the EXTENSA
program. EXTENSA could be financed through HIPC funds destined to human resources in health that
are not transferred to municipalities (during the transition period until municipalities become responsible
for decentralized health workers). Alternatively, the Government could solicit financing for this purpose
from the World Bank and other donors.
In addition, to ensure the continued financing of the SBS, the government commits itself to continue
negotiations that will ensure the functioning of the automatic earmarking of 6.4% of municipal funds
received from central government disbursements for the SBS.
In order to facilitate a higher level of compliance with the Reform Program, the Government is committed
to continue increasing domestic financing for vaccinations through annual increases of 0.5 million dollars,
starting with 4 million dollars in 2002, until reaching the amount necessary to cover the full cost of the
second generation Expanded Program of Immunizations (5.5 million dollars).
With regard to Performance Agreements and decentralization, Bolivia will assume, with great political
commitment, the application of agreements and management contracts, reinforcing the effective
supervision and compliance with these agreements and thereby consolidating the generation of a results-
based institutional culture and commitment to health at all levels that was initiated in phase one of the
APL.
Within this framework, we ratify our regard for the World Bank, and our commitment to assume the
proposals and obligations presented above. We thank you for your consideration of the foregoing.
Respectfully yours,
Jose Luis Lupo
Minister of Finance
Republic of Bolivia
79



Annex 12: Participation and Social Communication Strategies
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Multiculturalism is one of the greatest challenges of the health sector in Bolivia. This Annex describes
how Phase I of the Project has addressed the issue of multiculturalism and what steps are proposed to
strengthen the focus on participation for Phase II, including information, education and communication
strategies. It concludes by listing monitoring and evaluation activities.
Participation in health is understood as the active and conscious involvement of the population in
activities to prevent and treat disease in the community. Considering the importance and value of
multiculturalism and multiethnicity in the country, the project intends to promote participation that takes
into account the communities' sociocultural context and practices and taps all the social mobilization
mechanisms to be found in the different political, social, economic and religious structures of the
country. Social Communication strategy is understood as the development and implementation of
instruments that promote social participation.
Health Inequality in Bolivia
Bolivia is characterized by a wide variety of ethnic groups, which account for 57.1 percent of the total
population. In rural areas, 80.7 percent of the population is native, whereas the corresponding figure is
44.9 percent in urban areas. While there is no specific information about the coverage of health services
to indigenous groups, they are known to be a large part of the population without basic health services.
Because most of the non-native population (43 percent) already had access to services prior to the recent
expansion of coverage achieved by the SBS, it is likely that most of this expansion has been among the
native population. Despite this, a key challenge of the health service remains increasing coverage to the
indigenous populations.
Participation Activities carried out in Phase I
Phase I of the project included several activities designed to provide services to indigenous and native
populations, based on the recommendations of anthropological studies of performance and trends in the
utilization of health services and interaction with suppliers, undertaken as preparatory research in Aymara
and Quechua population groups. The conclusions were summarized in the PAD for Phase 1.
The following steps, in particular, were taken during APL 1: (i) incorporating the results of
anthropological studies into the SBS attention protocols (including traditional drugs at the primary level
of care); (ii) formalizing agreements with two of the largest indigenous organizations to implement the
SBS in indigenous areas with monitoring by an indigenous health committee; (iii) supporting the
Willaqkuna project which combines occidental and traditional medicine and has assigned Willaqkuna
representatives to supervise maternity services in 10 hospitals; (iv) developing the Pregnant Women's
Bill of Rights by using focal groups which included indigenous women; and (v) implementing user
satisfaction surveys in 40 urban hospitals.
a) Anthropological research: The project financed an anthropological study in two rural indigenous
communities in order to investigate the reasons for the low demand for health services and the
community's attitude with regard to health. The study emphasized the fact that many of the most rural
areas with a high percentage of indigenous population are well organized by their own social and
cultural standards and have strong community ties that have to be taken into account in the project's
extension of coverage strategy. The study also points to State prejudices, in the supply of health
80



Annex 12: Participation and Social Communication Strategies
services, against traditional medicine and indigenous farming communities, which hamper any attempts to
incorporate elements of traditional medicine and to tap its social and other potential. These conclusions
were taken into account when it came to defining the SBS, IMCI, and MBP protocols, which now
incorporate culture-friendly practices, and in some municipalities the eligibility for SBS reimbursement of
traditional medications for the first level.
b) Contacts between the Ministry and organizations representing indigenous and native peoples. MSPS
has formalized agreements with the two main organizations representing indigenous people: the
Confederaci6n Indigena de Pueblos Originarios de Bolivia - CIPOB, which was created in 1995 and
represents the ethnic groups from the Bolivian lowlands, and with the Confederaci6n Sindical (nica
de Trabajadores Campesinos de Bolivia (Bolivian Farm Workers Trade Union Confederation -
CSUTCB) which represents the rural Aymara population. Following several meetings conducted by
the MSPS with around 100 leaders from these organizations, in 2000 the National Indigenous Health
Council was established to join the MSPS in overseeing the implementation of the Basic Health
Insurance and the Epidemiological Shield - to the indigenous peoples of Bolivia. An agreement was
signed between the Council and the MSPS. The main points of the agreement and extent of
compliance so far are as follows:
* Training of Indigenous Human Resources: In order to enhance the capacity of public health
services to respond to indigenous health needs, the project awarded 30 scholarships to train
members of indigenous groups from three regions in the country as Nursing and Basic Sanitation
Auxiliaries at schools in Cochabamba and Camiri. The MSPS also undertook to finance 10
scholarships for training indigenous doctors in Cuba.
* Granting of civil service posts for indigenous staff trained as Auxiliary Nurses. The project is
committed to financing six of the 16 guaranteed positions.
a Traditional Medicine: The project has agreed to find ways to incorporate traditional medical
practices in the SBS.
*  Equipment, medical inputs andfinancing. Motorboats, financing for pharmaceutical rotating funds, and
financing for gasoline have been provided by the project.
c) Support for the Willaqkuna project. This project seeks to combine occidental and traditional medicine.
APL1 financed 10 scholarships for the Postgraduate Degree in Intercultural Education in Potosi,
which aims to enhance the skills of health professionals in indigenous areas.
d) Studies and experiences of related projects operating under the SBS:
* The ABRIR (British Assistance for Health Reform - DFID): Based on an empirical survey of the
community's perception of its health needs, a training program for State health personnel has
been developed that incorporates the community's own perspectives with regard to its health
needs. The survey was conducted by two anthropologists who lived in the community of
Challapata for two years.
* The Lorenzo Project (Canadian Society): A participatory community assessment of health
problems was conducted on the basis of meetings with the communities, house calls, and the
preparation of PHC and domestic violence folders aimed at achieving accurate monitoring of
families and segments of the population at risk by means of comprehensive, personalized family
health care.
e) Pregnant Women's Bill of Rights (CDME): Focal groups and surveys of women from different parts
of the country were conducted to garner information on their expectations when giving birth and on
the way they are treated in health facilities. The surveys included questions related to the cultural
81



Annex 12: Participation and Social Communication Strategies
customs of women during delivery. The Pregnant Women's Bill of Rights was based on the findings
of the study.
f) User satisfaction surveys: User satisfaction surveys were conducted in 40 urban hospitals and the
surrounding community. The surveys included questions on the client's expectations, the facility's
physical resources, and the diligence and quality of the health care provided.
Proposals for Phase II
Phase 11 of the project proposes to strengthen the equity focus through institutionalization of social
participation, especially in indigenous communities, with concrete actions that lead to structural changes.
Phase II of the project proposes to develop the following activities:
a) Training of Rural Community Health Agents. Rural Community Health Agents may be empirical
midwives, traditional healers, or other community leaders involved in health issues. Their role is
twofold: i) to carry out health prevention and promotion activities in the community, and ii) to
provide a link to the formal public health sector. They can perform the second role because they
usually are indigenous, bilingual, and have information on and access to both formal and traditional
health practices. The project proposes to reach out towards rural community health agents and
provide them with training. In addition, the Project will develop a system of Itinerant Health
Professionals, to complement and improve the activities of the Rural Community Health Agents, with
whom they will coordinate their visits.
b) Implementing the Pregnant Women's Bill of Rights. This involves: i) dissemination of the CDME in
Spanish, Aymara, Quechua and Guarani; ii) strengthening of health facilities to ensure that they are in
a position to respect the rights established; iii) ensuring that health professionals read the Bill to
women during prenatal care controls; and iv) signing of the Bill by both the Health Professional and
the pregnant woman.
c) Health Advocates[Defensores de Salud]. The MSPS established Health Advocates through the
Ministerial Decree 25233 of September 1999 Defensores are community representatives who
disseminate health information in the community and collect their people's suggestions and
complaints in order to enrich the dialogue with the public health sector. The project proposes to
strengthen the Health Advocates and use them as a link to improve the participation of communities
and lead to an improvement in the quality of services. APL2 aims to train 500 Defensores.
d) Coordination with Indigenous Organizations to improve participation, understanding and mutual
respect. The MSPS will continue to coordinate with the National Indigenous Health Council to ensure
that the interests of all ethnic groups are adequately represented in the development of national health
policies and their implementation. Specifically, MSPS plans to have a Willaquna representative in
each large hospital in Bolivia by 2005.
Information, Education, and Communication in Bolivia
During the past five years, there have been several successful experiences of IEC in Bolivia, including
MotherCare's IEC strategy for safe motherhood, which targeted providers as well as communities, and
the Sexual and Reproductive Health IEC strategy of the Johns Hopkins University Center for
Communication Programs, which used participative performances to raise awareness in rural
communities on reproductive issues. Both institutions coordinated with Basic Health Insurance in order to
exploit synergies.
82



Annex 12: Participation and Social Communication Strategies
Phase I. IEC Activities
Activities designed to foster participation were accompanied by an awareness campaign strategy designed
to induce changes of behavior both in communities and users and among health providers.
The following activities were carried out in 2000:
a) For the SBS, there was a publicity campaign to launch it on local radios in 60 percent of the
municipalities, in Quechua, Aymara, and Guarani, as well as in the mass media, and a six-month-long
follow-up campaign on the country's principal radio networks (Panamericana and Fides) and on the
ATB television network. Campaigns to issue SBS I.D. cards were conducted in nine departments.
Together with the Chagas program, the SBS also published a record of traditional Bolivian music as a
tool for disseminating information about developments in the field of health.
b) A march of 10,000 people was organized to launch the new EPI vaccines in Potosi. Departmental
authorities, native groups, and schools all took part.
c) The health fair in Oruro established itself as an annual event. This year there were 15 musical groups
and some 6,000 participants.
d) A three-year communication strategy was devised in 1999-2000, comprising six stages (analysis;
strategic design; development, testing, revision, and production of publicity spots; management,
execution, and monitoring; impact assessment; and arrangements to ensure continuity). This is the
first time such a strategy has been employed in the health sector. Although it was designed for the
EPI, its impact extends to all mother and child services.
IEC Strategy for Phase II
Experience acquired during the first phase of the project suggests the need to focus on sustainable,
ongoing strategies, rather than on campaigns, which, even though they reach a wide audience, are isolated
and in the long run ineffective. Moreover, the first phase concentrated on dissemination and information
processes that can change what people know but not their attitudes. For the latter, educational
communication is required. For that reason, in the second phase, the social communication plan
contemplates including four components aimed at inducing people to change their attitudes and take more
care of their health, to exercise their rights with respect to health, and to achieve gender equity:
a) Educational Communication: Providing people, through interpersonal and impersonal mechanisms
and using formal and informal formats, with guidelines and encouragement on adopting forms of
behavior conducive to health.
b) Alternative Communication: Providing encouragement and support for people to communicate better
and more extensively with each other and with health officials, by using mainly indigenous and
traditional, interpersonal means, supplemented by appropriately tailored use of modem mass media,
in an egalitarian framework of dialogue and participation.
c) Social Mobilization: Carrying out a set of promotional activities designed to achieve intense,
coordinated involvement of institutions representing broad segments of society in efforts to attain
established health priorities as promptly as possible.
d) Community Organization: Carrying out a set of promotional activities designed to induce local
political, economic, cultural, and religious leaders and community groups to play a leading, self-
determined role in decision-making and activities conducive to better health, above all at the
municipality level.
83



Annex 12: Participation and Social Communication Strategies
By applying these strategies, the project aims to consolidate the capacity of the health sector at the local
level and to foster participation by the population in health interventions and strategies. Nevertheless, for
the aforementioned communication strategies to work, interinstitutional communication networks have to
be forged that are capable of supporting ongoing, sustainable efforts geared to ensuring that the desired
changes in the behavior patterns of providers and of the population in general are effected as soon as
possible.
Monitoring and Evaluation Strategies
The project will conduct the following activities:
-  Gather information about the number of CDMEs that have been signed in each municipality.
-  Carry out user satisfaction surveys that identify the ethnic background of respondents systematically,
including rural areas of the country, which have so far been neglected. Ensure the development and
implementation of feedback mechanisms to process the information stemming from such surveys.
-  Monitor the number of community health visits by itinerant professionals in high-risk municipalities
(low coverage, high dispersion, high percentage of indigenous population).
-  Monitor the number of bilingual Community Health Agents trained to work in high-risk
municipalities.
84



Annex 13: The Basic Health Insurance (Seguro Bdsico de Salud - SBS)
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
History and proposed phases
The Basic Health Insurance (SBS) was developed to give the population free access to a basic package of
preventive and curative services, with the objective of reducing the high maternal and child mortality
rates as well as the duration and severity of the main causes of morbidity and mortality in the country. Its
implementation in 1999 represents the second step of a phased process aiming at the creation of a
universal health insurance in Bolivia.
A first step had been taken with the implementation of the Mother and Child Insurance (Seguro Nacional
de Maternidad y Niniez), created in 1996 and offering free access to a package of 26 services targeted at
pregnant women and children under 5. The SBS expanded the package and the target population, and
introduced changes in several other dimensions including financing and administration. The table below
presents the three phases culminating in the implementation of a universal insurance, and identifies the
progress made with the SBS in each dimension.
Phases/         1. Mother and Child      II. Basic Health Insurance    III. Universal Health Insurance
Dimensions       Insurance (SNMN)                  (SBS)
Targeted risk   Mother and child       Most of the life cycle risks  Whole life cycle and all risks of
covered including mother and    death. Integral focus on major
child, reproductive and sexual   injuries.
health, vectors, malnutrition, and
chronic diseases like TB.
Health focus   Medical, recuperative   Prevention, promotion and     Promotion, prevention,
repair.                      recuperation and rehabilitation;
emphasis in family health and
healthy lifestyles.
Package of    26 cost effective        75 Cost-effective interventions   Expanded, integral basic package
services     interventions (minimal    (basic package)               including cost effective
mother and child package)  Expanded to 92 in 2001     interventions.
Geographical  Municipalities           Health districts (networks    Departmental and national ( health
setting                                including 2 levels of complexity) networks including 3 levels of
complexity)
Main provider Public sector            Public sector, Social Security and Multiple providers
selected NGOs and Church-
dependent facilities
Funding       3.2% of municipal funds    6.4% of municipal funds     Multiple sources with % assigned
received from central tax   received from central tax  according to the cost of the
transfers                transfers plus funds from     package. Social Security is
departmental and national levels. included.
Administrator/ DILOS: 311 administrators  Administrative/paying structures  Departmental administrative
Payer         organized around         organized around health       structures and/or national payers
municipalities; informality, networks (93 Districts)   based on 3 level health networks
lack of accountability
Payment       Fee-for service          Fee-for-service with added    Capitation
mechanism                              incentives.
Barriers to be  Economic barrier       Economic, socio-cultural and  All barriers including geographic,
eliminated                             geographic barriers.          through focus on health networks.
Social        Participation subsidized by  Participation without subsidy of  Participation without subsidies,
Security     the public sector.        inputs in primary health care.    with capitation in PHC and other
Participation                                                        levels.
85



Annex 13: The Basic Health Insurance (Seguro Basico de Salud- SBS)
Objectives
The SBS is the principal instrument of the Bolivian Health Reform, which aims to reduce maternal and
infant mortality in the country and prevent endemic diseases, while strengthening institutions. The
insurance's specific objectives are to: i) reduce the cost barrier for users; ii) improve incentives for
providers; iii) separate the roles of financing and provision, iv) ensure a basic package of benefits; v)
assign specific responsibilities per jurisdiction; vi) use the payment mechanism as an incentive; and vi)
introduce competition and include other sub-sectors.
Benefit package
The benefit package of the SBS was designed in such a way as to include cost-effective interventions that
would target the main causes of infant mortality (diarrheas and acute respiratory diseases as well as
malnutrition and inadequate perinatal care) and maternal mortality (hemorrhage and infections linked to
unsafe deliveries and complications from unsafe abortions). In addition, cost-effective interventions
targeting the main causes of morbidity in the country (STDs, cholera, malaria and TB) were included. The
covered interventions are listed below.
Interventions aimed at children under 5            Interventions aimed at pregnant women
-  Neonatal Asphyxia                            -  Pre and postnatal care
-  Local bacterial infections (babies < 2 months)    -  Deliveries (including induction and cesarean
-  Regular vaccination (MMR, BCG, Pentavalent,    sections)
Polio)                                      -  Pre-eclampsia / eclampsia
-  Severe bacterial infections (Sepsis, Meningitis, -  Hemorrhage in the lI half of pregnancy
Pneumonia, Dysentery)                           (prevention and care)
-  Acute respiratory diseases                   -  Hemorrhage in the 2nd half of pregnancy
-  Diarrhea                                     -  Puerperal hemorrhage and infections
-  Nutrition and development (anemia, parasitism)   -  Sepsis
Interventions aimed at the general population  Laboratory analyses, including: blood group
-  Family  planning  (including  counseling  and and Rh, complete hemogram, urine analyses,
contraception methods)                      baciloscopia (tuberculosis), glicemia, creatinine,
-  Treatment  of  STDs  (syphilis,  gonorrhea, bilirrubin, transaminasas, proteinuri\ia,
clymidia, triconomiasis and candidiasis)    gotagGruesa (malaria), RPR (syphilis)
-  Malaria (ambulatory and hospital treatments)
-  Tuberculosis (treatment for children and adults)   Auxiliary services
-  Cholera (ambulatory and hospital treatments)     Echogram
-  Simple incubator (5 days)
Other expenses covered
-  Transport of obstetric emergencies
-  Visits by health personnel to communities without access to health facilities
Financing system
The SBS is financed with a fixed 6.4% of the municipal funds received from the central government's
decentralized tax revenue. These funds are assigned to the country's 314 municipalities on a per capita
basis and deposited in a special account earmarked for the SBS.
Under this modality, financing of the SBS is not based on user's salary conditions, their participation in
the labor market or other assumptions relating to family structure, age, gender or ethnicity; SBS financing
is of a liquid and accumulative nature, even when not spent during the budgetary period.
86



Annex 13: The Basic Health Insurance (Seguro Basico de Salud - SBS)
Payment Mechanism
Payment is based on fee for service reimbursement by municipal governments. Considering the country's
low coverage of health services, this modality was chosen to encourage an increase in the uptake of
services. Each intervention is assigned a reimbursement rate, based on the cost of selected direct inputs
and updated on a yearly basis through a Ministerial Resolution. Each facility registers the number of
interventions it performs on a monthly basis and sends this informnation to the district, which consolidates
production data for the health network and sends it to the corresponding municipal government.
Municipalities then reimburse the facilities, via the district, for the amount corresponding to the number
of interventions performned in their jurisdiction.
Prices and Cost
The reimbursement rates of the SBS interventions are based primarily on the cost of drugs and medical
supplies, including the average cost of a day's hospitalization in a public facility, when relevant. Other
direct and indirect costs are not taken into account because: i) the country's divided decentralized system
establishes that human resources in health are paid for by the departmental level, and ii) the municipalities
are responsible by Law to pay for basic services and patient alimentation in their facilities. Therefore,
while costs are taken into account, the estimation of the rate of reimbursement stresses incentives for
priority interventions. For example, in the case of deliveries, one third of the reimbursement rate
corresponds to an added incentive.
Role of the MSPS's Administrative Unit
The role of the MSPS's central SBS administrative unit is to set norms, technical and administrative
procedures, update reimbursement rates, and coordinate activities with departmental directors for follow
up, technical and administrative evaluations.
Issues with Data
The district is in charge of reviewing the production reports it receives from its facilities before sending
them on to the municipal govemments. Municipalities, in turn can perform production audits when
deemed necessary. However, due to low technical skills in the health sector, many municipalities do not
have the capacity to audit production in facilities.
On the other hand, because municipalities are autonomous by Law, until recently, financial information
about inflows and outflows of the SBS accounts were not available at departmental or national levels. It
ensued that municipalities could divert these funds to non-SBS or even non-health spending (and many
have done so), without the MSPS being able to exert control. Recently, a system was put into place
whereby the MSPS can access information of monthly disbursements and balances of each municipal
SBS account. Still, the MSPS does not have regular access to monthly production information by
individual facility for all SBS interventions. The National Health Information Service (SNIS) reports
production by facility, but only for 14 of the 92 SBS interventions.
To remedy this, a software is being designed that will cross SBS production information by facility and
health network with disbursements and balances of municipal SBS accounts.
Future challenges
One of the challenges for the future is to implement the SBS software. This will enable both the national
and departmental levels to control production and financial flows of the country's health networks.
Another challenge, which also relates to improved control by the MSPS, is the performance of financial
audits in municipalities and financial and medical audits in facilities, to certify the veracity of declared
production data and ensure that financial flows are exempt of fraud.
Progress has been made to incorporate NGO and Church-dependent providers into the SBS health
87



Annex 13: The Basic Health Insurance (Seguro Bdsico de Salud- SBS)
network. However, greater effort is needed for the integration of multiple providers.
Social Security (SS) facilities provide SBS services. However, the links between the public sector and
Social Security need to be developed and contracting mechanisms introduced in places where one sector
is providing services for users affiliated to the other sector. Similarly, the Elderly Insurance (Seguro de
Vejez), whose services should be provided by the SS facilities, is not available in rural areas and the SBS
needs to consider how to coordinate with the SS for this group of users.
88



Annex 14: Support to the Medium-Term Immunization Plan - Phase I and Phase II
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Summary
This annex describes the actions taken during the period of implementation of the first phase of the
APL to strengthen the management, financing and field presence of the national immunization program in
Bolivia, and the results of those actions. In addition, it lays out the additional strengthening required, which
would be supported in part under the second phase of the APL.
Background
Starting in 1996, the immunization program in Bolivia was showing signs of trouble.
Immunization coverage had been declining as a result of (a) institutional weaknesses of the country's
health system and that of the Expanded Program on Immunization; (b) insufficient and inconsistent
allocation of funds by the government, relying mostly on funds from external cooperation; and (c) lack of
a sustained social communications strategy. In the field, activities had also deteriorated due to the lack of
support from regional authorities. As coverage of traditional EPI vaccines was falling, Bolivia was also
lagging the rest of the Americas in the incorporation of Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine-a
product that has demonstrated its contribution to the reduction of infant mortality in other countries.
Recognizing the importance of reversing the erosion in immunization coverage, the Government
of Bolivia, the World Bank and the Pan American Health Organization agreed to focus on strengthening
the program under Phase I of the APL. During project preparation, the national immunization program
was evaluated and a medium-term immunization plan was developed to address key problems along three
broad lines of action. These lines of action were: (1) institutional strengthening of the Expanded
Immunization Program to improve adoption and implementation of immunization policies; (2)
strengthening of health services to improve vaccination coverage and introduction of new vaccines; and
(3) strengthening of the information and surveillance systems.
The following report outlines the activities during Phase 1 carried out under each line of action,
achievements of the last two years, and areas that still require strengthening.
PHASE I (1999-2001). Revamping of the National Immunization Program and Incorporation of
New Vaccines
1. Institutional strengthening of the Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) to improve
adoption and implementation of immunization policies. Under Phase I of the APL, progress was
made in establishing a long-term commitment to domestic, public sector financing of the
immunization program, and to strengthening essential management functions.
On the financing front, the Ministry of Finance introduced a line item into the national budget, so that
the allocation of funding for vaccine purchase is made more transparent. Importantly, the Ministry of
Finance also established a tax on Bolivia's Social Security Agency (Caja Nacional de Salud), with
the proceeds earmarked for the purchase of vaccines.
With respect to management strengthening, improvements occurred at the central and departmental
levels, as well as in coordination between those two levels. The profile of the EPI work was elevated
by the program being constituted as a unit that reports to the General Office of Health Services
89



Annex 14: Support to the Medium-Term Immunization Plan - Phase I and Phase 11
within the Ministry of Health; on a periodic basis it reports directly to the Minister of Health. The
central EPI team was strengthened with the addition of three professionals and five support staff, as
well as short-term technical assistance.
New administrative and procurement processes have been established. Vaccine purchases are under
the responsibility of the Directorate of Administration and the Vice-Minister. An automatic inventory
control system for vaccines and syringes has been developed and is being implemented.
With immunization targets included within performance agreements, lines of communication between
the center and departments have been strengthened and specific responsibilities have been established
to reinforce accountability. Departments share responsibility in the efforts to achieve high
immunization coverage and to reduce the number of municipalities reporting low vaccination
coverage. Quarterly evaluation meetings between national and departmental levels are held, and
quarterly supervisory visits at all levels are being conducted. In addition, a Technical Advisory
Committee has been formed at national and departmental levels, in which Bolivia's scientific
societies participate.
To aid in effective planning, a national KAP study has been carried out detailing the differences of
the eco-regions, ethnographic groups and urban-rural population. The results of the KAP study are
being used for the development of the permanent information, education and communication (IEC)
strategy.
2. Strengthening of health services to improve coverage and introduce new vaccines. Under Phase
I of the APL, field capacity for routine administration of immunization and emergency response was
increased. In addition, effective new vaccines were also added to Bolivia's immunization schedule.
Across the country, EPI teams and the departmental level were strengthened with the addition of one
nurse and the assignment of rapid response brigades, known by their Spanish acronym, BEAR. One
hundred and twenty bilingual vaccinators were hired, trained and equipped to support vaccination and
surveillance activities in every department. In addition, departmental teams have been trained to
identify and respond to municipalities with low coverage, and five PAHO-financed epidemiologists
have been detailed to the country's critical departments.
The national immunization schedule has been expanded to include vaccination against HIB and
hepatitis B, and vaccination against yellow fever has been included in endemic zones. Measles vaccine
has been replaced by a combined vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella (MMR). Furthermore,
the combined vaccine of HIB, DPT and hepatitis-B has been introduced as a pentavalent vaccine in
July 2000.
Other important improvements include the implementation of basic bio-safety practices, with the
acquisition of safe boxes for the disposal of syringes and needles, and the development of a bio-
safety manual. The cold chain has been renovated, including the updating of a national warehouse
and the construction of five departmental warehouses. Where needed, local equipment has been
renovated and storage capacity has been increased as required by the new vaccines.
3. Strengthening the information and surveillance systems. The critical immunization program
functions of surveillance, data collection and analysis were strengthened in many ways under the first
phase of the APL. For example, national committees responsible for the analysis of information are
being strengthened at all levels. Rapid monitoring of immunization coverage has been implemented.
Active search for vaccine-preventable diseases now occurs in 1,236 health establishments (50,000
diagnoses reviewed), and 73,587 community leaders and people in the community have been
90



Annex 14: Support to the Medium-Term Immunization Plan - Phase I and Phase 11
interviewed as part of a community based informal surveillance system.
Several other important new systems have been put into place. A registration book for vaccinations
outside health services was printed and distributed. Training in daily registration of doses applied and
monthly consolidation of information was given to the health personnel at all levels. Weekly
monitoring of surveillance indicators, monthly monitoring of coverage by municipalities and
implementation of corrective measurements have all been accomplished. Sentinel hospital have been
identified for the surveillance system of HIB type b and hepatitis B. Finally, collaboration with the
Directorate of Epidemiology was established, to improve the notification and implementation of the
surveillance system alert system.
Financing under the Phase I
Implementation of the medium-term immunization plan was co-financed by the Government of Bolivia,
international specialized agencies, and the World Bank, under the Phase I APL. As shown in Figure 1,
corresponding to improvements cited above, spending on immunization increased from a total of US$2.4
million in 1999 to an estimated US$11.6 million in 2001. At the same time, Government of Bolivia
allocations for vaccines and other program inputs more than doubled, increasing from US$1.15 million in
1999 to an estimated US$3.5 million in 2001 (see Figure 2).
Figure 1.
Immunization Program Expenditures, 1998-2001
15~
3 10 -
~5.1
1998        1999         2000         2001
Year
IIQ Vaccines * Other inputs
91



Annex 14: Support to the Medium-Term Immunization Plan - Phase I and Phase 11
Figure 2.
Immunization Program Financing by Source, 1998-
2001
15  _          _       _:=__
0
10
1998          1999           2000          2001
Year
|  GOB U WB loan 0 Other agencies
Results.  As shown in Table 1, the first phase has yielded demonstrable results. Immunization
coverage (as measured by DPT3) increased from 75 percent in 1996-98 to 89 percent in 2000.
Coverage with pentavalent3 has reached 65 percent in 2001.  Importantly, the number of
municipalities with low DPT3 coverage has been reduced from 212 to 72. And, after missing its
financing target for 1999, in 2000 the Govemment of Bolivia was able to mobilize its target level of
US$3 million for procurement of vaccines in 2000.
Performance Benchmarks under Phase I
I_________=____-__    Phase  I
Indicator                    Baseline          1999                  2000           2001
(96-98)    Target I Achieve   Target   Achieve   Target
Immunization coverage DPT3     75%        82%       87%                  89%*
Immunization coverage
Pentavalent3                                                   65%                  75%
A Municipalities with DPT3
coverage < 80%                 212        170        126                  72*
# Municipalities with
Pentavalent3 coverage < 80%                                    170                   119
Financing of vaccines by the
Govemment (US$ millions)       0.27       2.5       0.64        3         3.06       3.5
Source: SNIS, EPI Ministry of Health Bolivia
* Since pentavalent vaccine was introduced in July 2000, DPT3 was still used as indicator for year 2000.
However, pentavalent will replaced DPT3 as indicator starting from 2001.
92



Annex 14: Support to the Medium-Term Immunization Plan - Phase I and Phase 11
PHASE II (2002-5). National Coverage and Financing of New Vaccines
On March 29, 2001, the Government of Bolivia and members of the Inter-agency Coordinating
Committee signed a Memorandum of Understanding endorsing the Second Generation Expanded
Program on Immunization (EPI-II). They recognized the achievements made during Phase I of the APL,
and identified areas to be strengthened in Phase II.
During Phase II, it is proposed that EPI-II continue on three lines of action, focusing on critical elements
for future success. These are outlined briefly below.
1.    Institutional strengthening of the EPI to accelerate the adoption and implementation of
immunization policies. The activities under this line of action would include: ensuring national
financing of vaccines and syringes with progressive input from the Government and simultaneous
approval of a Vaccine Law; maintenance of national and regional teams (including communication and
transportation); development and implementation of an electronic system for administrative processes to
ensure appropriate utilization of resources; and equipping of three regional EPI offices for training and
coordination, and cold chain rooms. Operational investigations would be strengthened to identify missed
opportunities for vaccination in establishments, and to evaluate the impact of new vaccine introduction. In
addition, the application of bio-safety norms would be monitored.
2.    Strengthening of health services to improve coverage and support for the consolidation of
new vaccine introduction. Under Phase II, introduction of pentavalent, MMR and yellow fever would
be consolidated through training, supervision, as well as the use of IEC strategies based on the
information obtained during the KAP investigation. These strategies would become the framework for all
communication and education activities throughout the network of health services, and will be evaluated
on a periodic basis.
An incentive system would be created for all those who distinguish themselves in EPI work: health
workers, staff municipalities and prefecturas. Local initiatives that strengthen immunization through
health services will be promoted, using the strategy that reduces missed opportunities for vaccination.
Monitoring of municipalities at risk would continue on an ongoing basis and immediate action would we
taken at the department level in those municipalities reporting low vaccination coverage. PAHO would
also continue financing five epidemiologists to be assigned to critical departments.
3.    Strengthening of information and surveillance systems. Phase II of the APL would support
continued quality control mechanisms for epidemiological surveillance, such as active institutional and
community searches of vaccine preventable diseases and rapid monitoring of vaccination coverage.
Training and supervision, using the continuing education approach and auditing of the quality of the
information would remain important components of the Phase II. In addition, tools to facilitate the
analysis of EPI information at all levels would be promoted. These activities would all be carried out in
conjunction with the SNIS and the Unit of Epidemiological Surveillance. At the end of the Phase II, a
vaccination coverage survey will be carried out to validate administrative data.
Financing of Vaccines Phase II and beyond. Building on the experiences of Phase I, a structured plan
for phasing in Government support, and phasing out external support, would be implemented. As shown
in Figures 3 and 4, during Phase II, specific attention would be given to financing new vaccines that were
introduced in the vaccination schedule during the Phase I. The financial contribution by partners would
decrease on an annual basis, until the third year. The Government, on the other hand, would increase
national financing towards the procurement of vaccines in amounts of US $500,000 annually, until it
covers the total amount at the end of the project.
93



Annex 14: Support to the Medium-Term Immunization Plan - Phase I and Phase 11
Figure 3.
Projected Immunization Program Expenditures,
2002-5
15   A
W
 10                 
'0
2002         2003         2004         2005
Year
l] Vaccines U Other inputs
Figure 4.
Projected Immunization Program Financing by
Source, 2002-5
0
*1 0
,) 0 X_'
2002          2003          2004          2005
Year
U GOB * WB loan 0 Other agencies
Targets for Phase II. As shown in Table 2, actions and investments under Phase II are expected to result
in coverage levels above 90 percent by 2005; a reduction in the number of municipalities with low
coverage to 31; and domestic self-sufficiency in vaccine purchases.
94



Annex 14: Support to the Medium-Term Immunization Plan - Phase I and Phase II
Phase II Targets
2002    2003       2004              2005
Immunization coverage
with pentavalent3         85%      87%       90%                93%
unicipalities with
pentavalent3 coverage <80
percent                    83       70        50                 31
Financing of vaccines by
Government (US$ millions)    4      4.5        5                 5.5
Lessons Learned
The partnership between the Government of Bolivia, the World Bank and PAHO has had a
tremendous impact in improving the policy environment and financial sustainability of Bolivia's national
immunization program. The Ministry of Finance now recognizes the need to invest in vaccines to make
the Program sustainable, and the Government of Bolivia has also assumed its responsibility for investing
in vaccines in an incremental way.
The Project has clearly shown that the level of infrastructure of a country's health system and that
system's capacity to deliver services play a much larger role in the development and implementation of
sustainable immunization programs than the price of a dose of vaccine. Another aspect that makes this
project of particular relevance to other countries in the Americas and elsewhere is the use of
immunization impact indicators that measure not only the immunization components, but also overall
aspects of health care reform and the processes of decentralization. These indicators are:
* National coverage with three doses of pentavalent vaccine
 Number of municipalities with three doses of pentavalent vaccine coverage
< 80%
  Increase of national financing towards purchase of vaccines and syringes
The tools and methodology used to develop this project are being utilized for the strengthening of national
immunization programs at the global level. The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI)
has incorporated many tools and methodologies from the Bolivia experience into its guidelines for
funding requests for the Children's Vaccine Fund. These include the methodology for evaluating a
national immunization program; five-year and annual plans of action; and Inter-agency Coordinating
Committees.
95



Annex 15: Medical Waste Management
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Program - Phase II
Summary
This annex provides an overview of medical waste management in Bolivia. It is based on an
assessment prepared by PAHO as part of the loan preparation process (original assessment is available in
the Project Files).
Overall, serious problems have been detected in management of bio-hazardous waste products at
the hospital level. These are result of both substandard waste management practices within facilities, and
poor handling of waste materials at the municipal level. The legal and regulatory framework for medical
waste management is weak.
At the same time, considerable progress is noted in medical waste management at the primary care
level, partly as a result of interventions in the first phase APL. Phase II of the APL seeks to continue
positive practices already established, and promote the preparation of a multi-donor action plan to address
broader and more complex issues related to medical waste management.
Overview of Medical Waste Issues in Bolivia
The   adequacy   of   medical   waste   Box I
management-and           progress        toward   Types of Medical Waste
improvements-varies greatly with the level of the
facility. At the hospital level, which accounts for a   Waste products generated in health care facilities fall
substantial volume of biohazardous materials of both  into three categories according to their composition;
Type  A  and  Type  B  (see  Box  1), serious   each category implies a distinct type of isolation,
deficiencies can be olerved.  There are barely   elimination and/or treatment.
incipient legislative, regulatory or other actions to
address this problem. At the first- and second-level   Type A-Non-pathogenic or common: Waste
address this pr oblem. At the first- and second-levl rproducts generated from administrative and general
facilities, the potential harmful impact of poor
practces-houghsignfican-is ower,and here cleaning activities, as well as food preparation.
patetogsgfcw, aThese materials can be handled in the same way as
have been more successful efforts to address the   residential waste.
problem.
Type B-Pathogenic or infectious: Waste products
The severity of the problem can be described   such as organic residues from deliveries and
well with a few examples. In the past the General  surgeries, autopsies; excrement; pharmaceutical
Hospital of La Paz discarded both non-pathogenic   wastes; materials contaminated with blood;
and infectious waste products in a river running at  laboratory glassware; supplies used in transfusions
the back of the facility. More recently, the Caja   and delivery of medications; and other potentially
t  back  fa    hazardous materials. These materials should be
Nacional de Salud (CNS) disposed Of outdated
pharmaceutical materials in a body of water that   eliminated in accordance with legislation for
pharmccubal mterlas Ina boy of  aterthat pathogenic wastes.
feeds into La Paz's water supply, an action that is
now the subject of a legal suit brought by the   Type C-Special pathogens and biohazards:
municipality  against the CNS.   The Instituto   Radioactive waste from radiology and
Nacional de Laboratorios de Salud started to offer   radiotherapeutic procedures. By law, these materials
incineration services to health centers; however,  require sophisticated management.
this effort was interrupted by the La Paz Direction
96



Annex 15: Medical Waste Management
of Environmental Quality because the furnace did not have appropriate technical specifications, and there
was evidence that the air was being contaminated. In the city of Santa Cruz, one of the landfills contains
so much medical waste that there have been several legal actions on the part of garbage workers who have
encountered organic wastes and body parts, and have suffered cuts and other injuries from loose syringes.
The problem has escalated to such an extent that drug addicts go to this landfill to obtain used syringes.
Diagnosing the elements of the medical waste management problem, it is possible to identify both
internal and external deficiencies and constraints. With respect to waste handling within health facilities,
there are five basic problems: First, health service directors do not assign a high priority to appropriate
waste management. Second, personnel are inadequately trained. Third, equipment and other necessary
resources are in short supply. For example, receptacles for solid wastes are often not impermeable, and/or
lack tight-fitting covers; there are no appropriate sites for waste storage, so materials receptacles usually
are left exposed to the elements; and liquid wastes typically are disposed of through the plumbing system,
without special treatment. Fourth, few facilities separate biohazardous waste products from the general
waste stream.
With respect to waste management outside of the facilities, three basic problems have been
identified: First, in 90 percent of the country the infrastructure, equipment and trained human resources
for hospital waste management does not exist. Second, there is no obvious source of financing for the
transport and treatment/final disposition activities that would be necessary for an adequate system. Third,
in most areas of the country (with the exception of La Paz (in part), Cochabamba and Santa Cruz), waste
management practices are substandard: the majority of hospital waste is collected, transported and
deposited in land fills along side residential and other municipal waste. This problem is most acute in
cities of less than 100,000, where no special treatment of hospital waste products is done.
Administrative and Leg al Framework
The solid waste management subsector is under the Basic Sanitation sector within the Ministry of
Housing and Basic Services. Currently, that unit is preparing the National Plan for Basic Sanitation;
while this constitutes an important advance with respect to solid waste management, the topic of medical
wastes is not covered.
Specifically with reference to medical waste products, the responsibility has been diffuse, with few
projects or programs up through at least the second half of the 1990s. As of 1999, the Ministry of Health
requested support from PAHO to elaborate regulations for solid wastes in hospitals, and its corresponding
norms.
Up until the present day, therefore, the legal and regulatory framework related to medical waste
management in Bolivia is weak and incomplete. It includes the following:
*  Ley de Medio Ambiente N 1333 (1992) y Reglamento de "Gesti6n de Residuos S6lidos" (1995):
Constitutes the framework for environmental management of solid wastes, and determines the roles
and responsibilities of different levels of the State. It does not enter into specific regulation regarding
hospital wastes.
*  Ley de Participaci6n Popular N 1551: Gives responsibility to municipal governments for public
social services.
*  Ley de Descentralizaci6n N 1654: Defines the roles of the Departmental Prefectures (Prefecturas
Departamentales). A specific document analyzes the decentralization of the basic sanitation sector,
and creates UNASBAS.
97



Annex 15: Medical Waste Management
* Norma Boliviana de Residuos S6lidos NB 742-760: Does not include a specific norm for solid waste
generated by hospitals.
* Nuevo Modelo Sanitario D.S. 24237: Directed at the achievement of higher levels of equity, quality
and efficiency in health services, under the new organization of the State.
Current Initiatives Related to Medical Waste Manaeement
Several national and local initiatives are underway-largely with external funding-to improve
the medical waste management situation in the country. The most significant of those are listed below:
*  Regulations for the management of wastes in health facilities are being prepared by the Ministry of
Health, and financed by PAHO. The document is in the final version, but has not yet been
promulgated.
*  The Norma Tecnica Boliviana de Residuos S6lidos Hospitalarios are being developed by the Ministry
of Health, with technical and financial support from PAHO. This document is being reviewed by a
commission directed by IBNORCA. The next step will be the elaboration of training manuals and
execution of national programs on this theme. Upon completing that phase, resources will be
provided for the implementation of the regulations and norms in three departments, at three levels of
attention.
*  SWISSCONTAC is conducting a program of solid medical waste management in Cochabamba. The
process is expected to generate local norms and regulations.
*  REDESMA, within the "digital environmental network" is introducing the theme of hospital solid
waste.
*  Under the auspices of PL480 and PROSIN, USAID has initiated a training campaign on solid medical
wastes at first- and second-level facilities.
*  The Asociaci6n Boliviana de Entidades Municipales de Aseo (ASEAM) has conducted studies to
characterize hospital waste issues, and has sufficient personnel and knowledge to replicate these
studies. ASEAM has conducted training courses on waste management for several health services in
La Paz and Santa Cruz, and has prepared a policy proposal related to the topic for the National Basic
Sanitation Plan. In addition, it has prepared studies to estimate the costs of waste management for
different types of services.
Impact of APL Phase I on Medical Waste Management
Neither the Phase I nor the Phase 11 APL has as a central objective to improve medical waste
management. However, any intervention in the health sector must ensure that no greater harm is done-
and that opportunities for improving environmental stewardship be recognized and made the most of.
Thus, Phase I was able to contribute in tangible ways to better waste management.
According to the assessment prepared by PAHO in anticipation of Phase II of the APL (citation),
Phase I contributed to improvements in medical waste management under the Expanded Programme of
Immunization II (EPI-II) in Bolivia in five important ways.
98



Annex 15: Medical Waste Management
*  First, it financed the preparation of a Manual on Biosecurity for EPI-II. This manual provides
directives for safe management of the wastes produced by the immunization program (e.g., syringes,
sharps, vials)
*  Second, it obtained and distributed receptacles for sharps, consistent with the directives in the manual.
*  Third, it obtained and used self-destructing (single-use) syringes, which reduce the potential for
accidental needle-sticks, and reduce risk of disease transmission associated with re-use of needles.
*  Fourth, it promoted the substitution of DPT vaccines with Pentavalent vaccines. This change, which
implies both gains in health outcomes and efficiency, reduces the number of syringes required per
child from 9 to 3. At 80 percent coverage, this implies an annual reduction in syringes used of 1.44
million annually.
*  Finally, it conducted training courses on the topic of biosecurity and management of the waste
materials generated by the immunization program.
Plans for Phase II of the APL
The second phase of the APL continues to focus on activities in first- and second-level facilities,
and strengthening of the immunization program; thus, the efforts of APLI will be sustained and
amplified. This will include continued implementation of the waste management activities of Phase I,
and the introduction of new activities, including development of waste management guides and manuals
in posts and centers for the Basic Health Insurance program, as well as training and supervision. In
addition, under Component 1, the APL will contribute to the preparation of a multi-donor action plan for
medical waste management atthe primary level, and will finance part of the costs of that plan.
99






IBRD 31131
68'                      66                       640                      62                       6-0-                          100-
lo0    B  R  A    Z  I L
BOLIVIA
0N.eb              iAl<                                                         MAIN ROADS
PAD~~~~~  -~~~~ I  ~  ~         ~        ~         ~             NATIONAL CAPITAL
Po(ver   c         8         -)  If          9                                         (3     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                        12
12                          l   F >Banca  *                                                            0      SELECTED TOWNS
\t )V /a>                                               P .                          - -  - DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
Pto  Heath                                                               0                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ce          ,       wb X     ;      0   t    2    4    XOSan   uin
LU               /  N      %(          L. Rogaguado  d) dalena
! (tadidi  w    }            ~~~~~~~B jE  N}         m  '-
L   -   L iR.9aguc            S n SLuij4  C                                                                       14'
140        \lxiamaos  '        e    <       /           /     S dm                       X 
14'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
*;   1 4^ X$renabaqe  /    X   nidod 3t               V          VB R A Z I L
Ap olon                   a6u                         Trnd
16   ierina                        '                    Jr C\iscepc'C                                                San San .                      To I.6. 8r '
Matarani>Q  /?0YOPacani R         San Jas'ie Plo Vilorroe     ,     YIgnacio          Brasilia
Motor                   pto.                                                           S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sa  o n Rat. ore6
u oa          Plcmy  c4S a                     0 1  ..    v\                                        t A  T  A                                  |
>,kqosi                                                    - >   <<  ^                  So;ot
haar -         '                                                       to    ru                                          -''''ias
20~~~~              Salt~~~~O ta                  c                           Fralllz6 *T         asnn  PA6   R  A  0  U  AYz
I \     X                                            A                         Dn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cif R U R  b UAY 6
L----O  R                                                                                                                  Pueri0ElPunt  ad arnau
\nToaat             Chigsanol 1'         Tupi               Tari ja       a\o,                                    600 
L. Po                                                 C ;_g  bezS 3aityts--'.    /  22'a Rio            Porla Veiha
22L h tn / _                                    PERU o                                                                           I
Ro                                                                                                            2,TaSa/ta  'O o  Limo  .  Area
Salt Pon  Uyui                              Ebarcaci6n             '                    *,I |                      o mop
TO   Tupi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    hio
AnCtHfIalsE                                       ARGENT INA                                        st                *S,cre
)                             r~~~~~~~~~~his map was produced by ihe Map Design Unit of The World Bank.  ?OclfiC  N\ ,   _....
The on dariescolo, dnomin.aionsan.dyanyotherinformationhshown    24'-  Oa e   C
0 50   1 00  150  200  250   judgment on the legal/siatus of any territory,or ayendorsement or                                      NOVEMBER2000mc  g 
KILOMETERS                                                                                                   /    * `/ien,? -R
68'                      66'                       64'                      62'                    jI ARGENTINA              e'
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~macc6                                                                                Jr d d        lOVEM map00



