                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank


                                                              Report No: ICR0000946




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IDA-35410 IDA-3541A)




                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.6 MILLION
                            (US$ 35.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                         FOR A

               HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT, SECOND PHASE




                                     January 27, 2009



Human Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective June 2008)
                       Currency Unit = Bolivian Bolivianos (Bs.)
                                   1.00 Bs. = US$ 0.14
                                  US$ 1.00 = 7.11 Bs.

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable Program Loan
Bank     Refers to both IBRD and IDA
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DGSS    Direcci6n General de Servicios de Salud (General Office of Health Services)     .
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey (Encuesta Demogrdfica de Salud)
EPI      Expanded Program of Immunization
EXTENSA  Programa Nacional para la Extensión de Cobertura de Seguros (National Program for
         the expansion of health insurance)
FPS      Fondo Productivo y Social (Social and Productive Fund)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
HIB      Haemophilus Influenzae type B vaccine
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IMCI     Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (Atenci6n Integral de las enfermedades
         Prevalentes de la Infancia)
IMR      Infant Mortality Rate
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
MBP      Mother-Baby Package (Paquete Materno-Neonatal)
MMR      Maternal Mortality Rate
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MSD     Ministry of Health and Sports (Ministerio de Salud y Deportes)
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PA       Performance Agreements
PDO      Project Development Objectives
POA      Plan Operativo Anual (Annual Operating Plan)
PROISS  Proyecto Integrado de Servicios de Salud (Integrated Health Project)
SBS      Seguro Básico de Salud (Basic Health Insurance)
SEDES    Servicios Departamentales de Salud (Departmental Health Services)
SNIS    Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n de Salud (National System of Health
         Information)
SUMI     Seguro Universal Materno-Infantil (Universal Mother-Child Insurance)
URS     Unidad de Reforma de Salud (Health Reform Unit)


                            Vice President: Pamela Cox

                          Country Director: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo

                           Sector Manager: Keith E. Hansen

                      Project Team Leader: Carlos Marcelo Bortman

                         ICR Team Leader: Carlos Marcelo Bortman

                                                      Bolivia
              HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT, SECOND PHASE




                                                 CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................15
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................19
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................20
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............24
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................25
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................26
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................27
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................30
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................31
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     BO-Health Sector
Country:                Bolivia               Project Name:
                                                                     Reform APL II
Project ID:             P074212               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35410,IDA-3541A
ICR Date:               01/28/2009            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:
                                                                     BOLIVIA
Original Total
                        XDR 27.6M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 27.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Fondo de Inversion Productiva y Social (FPS)
Ministerio de Salud y Deportes
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/23/2001    Effectiveness:                         02/21/2002
Appraisal:             05/24/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/28/2001    Mid-term Review:     04/18/2005        04/18/2005
                                     Closing:             06/30/2006        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               4                 4
Compulsory health finance                                      11                11
Health                                                         81                81
Other social services                                           2                 2
Sub-national government administration                          2                 2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                  Primary          Primary
Health system performance                                     Primary          Primary
Indigenous peoples                                            Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                            Primary          Primary
Population and reproductive health                            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Michel Kerf                      Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:           Keith E. Hansen                  Xavier E. Coll
Project Team Leader:      Carlos Marcelo Bortman           Daniel Cotlear
ICR Team Leader:          Carlos Marcelo Bortman
ICR Primary Author:       Carlos Marcelo Bortman
                          Jorge A. Barrientos




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives are: (i) to increase coverage and quality of health
services and related programs that would improve the health of the population, and to
empower communities to improve their health status; and (ii) to strengthen local capacity
to respond to health needs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Governemntroposed to replace the denominator by the number of expected live
births which was considered to better reflect the objective of measuring the proportion of
pregnant women with compolete prenatal controls. Both a new baseline and targets were
estimated to allow suseuent monitoring for the period extended beyond the original
closing date.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Coverage of Institutional births attended by trained health personnel increased1.
                Coverage of Institutional births attended by trained health personnel increased
Value
quantitative or 52 percent (observed in   66 percent
Qualitative)    2000)

Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Retention of pregnant women in prenatal control increased
Value
quantitative or 43 percent                57 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Intrahospital Neonatal Mortality in 15 major hospitals
Value
quantitative or 11 (estimated 2000)       11
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   4. Number of cases of Pneumonia attended in service increased
Value           112,154(2000)             157,900 (targed


                                                iii

quantitative or                             adjusted due to
Qualitative)                                change on the
                                            pneumonia
                                            definition into the
                                            information
                                            systems)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   5. Coverage of pentavalent vaccine
Value
quantitative or 89 percent (2000)           90 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   6. Domestic financing of vaccines increased
Value
quantitative or US$ 4 Millions (2000)       US$ 6,5 Millions
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :   7. Number of municipalities with pentavalent vaccine coverage of less than 80
                percent reduced
Value
quantitative or 75 (2000)                   25
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :   8. Percent of children less than five years of age with three iron doses
Value
quantitative or 2 percent (2001)            41 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 9 :   Complete prenatal care attendance: children under five years of age receivin
                three annual doses of iron
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)



                                                 iv

Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target    Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value          Values (from                   Achieved at
                                             approval         Revised    Completion or
                                            documents)     Target Values Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Percentage of SEDES signing Performance agreements with MOH
Value
(quantitative  0                         100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Financial audits of SBS (now SUMI) available regularly
Value
(quantitative  0                         40
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     09/07/2001          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     04/12/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 0.00
  3     06/13/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 0.50
  4     12/11/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 0.73
  5     06/04/2003          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 1.87
  6     06/11/2003          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 2.63
  7     12/18/2003          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                6.21
  8     03/20/2004          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                8.11
  9     06/09/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 9.56
  10    11/30/2004          Satisfactory             Satisfactory               13.64
  11    04/27/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           18.00

  12    06/16/2005          Moderately               Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory               19.30

  13    12/29/2005          Moderately               Moderately                 24.74



                                             v

                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
  14  03/22/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    26.17
  15  12/22/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    32.09
  16  06/22/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    35.40
  17  12/21/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    37.34
  18  06/14/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    39.89
  19  08/07/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    40.29



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


Political Context

This Health Sector Reform Project, Second Phase, was approved, became effective and started
implementation in a complex political and social context. At the time the project was appraised
and approved the term of then-President Jorge Quiroga was coming to an end. Phase I of the
Health Sector Reform Program had been fully implemented under the Banzer/Quiroga
administration and key program features responded to health sector policies sponsored by this
government. By credit effectiveness, in early 2002, the Sanchez de Lozada administration had
taken office with a fragile majority obtained through a last minute coalition formed to obtain
ratification by the Bolivian Congress.

Social unrest dominated the 2002-2003 period and culminated with Sanchez de Lozada's
resignation and then Vice-President Mesa taking office. The new administration's main objective
was to reestablish social harmony and complete the five year presidential term, but political
differences on how to handle the crisis led to frequent outbursts of social unrest. Bolivia's fragile
socio-political environment was the result of persistent high levels of poverty and inequality, and
governance weaknesses in a context of low incomes resulting from shocks that had hit Bolivia
since the late 1990s. Increasing inequality led to mobilizations of poor and long excluded people
compounded by tensions among regions, socio-economic classes and indigenous/non-indigenous
groups. Although greater stability was achieved during 2004 and early 2005, civil unrest was
mounting and, eventually, led to President Mesa's resignation. An interim government took over
in July 2005 calling for elections by year end.

In December 2005, a new government headed by Evo Morales was elected with a solid majority,
marking the first president of Bolivia to come from indigenous origin. With a strong mandate for
a new approach to address the country's long-standing social problems, the priority of the new
government was set as striking a compromise over constitutional reform, regional autonomy and
poverty reduction mainly among rural and indigenous people. The new government quickly
moved to pass key laws. The most important was to convene elections of delegates to the
Constitutional Assembly that was installed by mid 2006. The Assembly had the mandate to draft
a new constitution that would set a framework to guide sectoral policies. Some tensions emerged
during 2007/8 deriving from power struggles within the Constitutional Assembly and, most
importantly, over the autonomy issue raised by some departments controlled by the political
opposition.

Economic Context

Despite the socio-political unrest, the macroeconomic framework was relatively favorable. By
2003, there had been some slowdown in economic growth but with a strong expansion in
hydrocarbons. At the same time, the country was facing a serious fiscal situation with an overall
budget deficit that had reached eight percent of GDP. To return to a sustainable fiscal path, the
Mesa administration entered into a program to reduce the deficit progressively leading to a
reduction in public expenditures. As a consequence, Bolivia's commitment to achieve social
goals set within the MDG framework was being impaired by the serious fiscal situation.

The macroeconomic framework improved considerably in 2005. Due to a positive international
environment, the Bolivian economy started to show an increase in exports and an improvement in
the fiscal accounts within a context of low to moderate inflation. The new Hydrocarbons Law


                                                 1

had a significant contribution to higher tax revenues bringing an endemic fiscal deficit to a
surplus of over 4 percent of GDP in 2006 and 2007. GDP showed a consistent growth of over
4% during the period 2005-2007.

The Political Environment and the Health Sector Reform

A Health Sector Reform Program, supported by the Bank, under an APL, had been started during
the Banzer/Quiroga administration. The APL first phase had been instrumental in reshaping the
sector, creating a new health insurance system and expanding coverage of basic services with
special emphasis on maternal and child care. The Sanchez de Lozada administration took
office with a plan to reshape and expand the health insurance system - a program
cornerstone designed and implemented under Phase I. However, required adjustments to
the health insurance scheme did not represent major changes to the original project
design in terms of scope, cost and implementation arrangements. Facing a serious fiscal
problem, the Mesa administration was determined to address it through key reforms to
improve the provision of all basic services, including health. The health sector reform
was also affected by the prevailing political instability that led to frequent changes of
health ministers and project authorities, each one making attempts to introduce changes
in sector policies, as well as new features and changing emphasis in certain aspects of the
reform process. The Morales administration followed this trend and quickly moved to
adjust health policies. Its basic aim was to refocus and broaden the health insurance
system and to put a renewed emphasis on nutrition programs, expansion of access to
health service by the indigenous population and establish closer links between
communities and health service providers in the public sector.

Rationale for Bank assistance

A Bolivia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report was discussed by the Board in
June 2001 in connection with the presentation of Bolivia's Poverty Reduction Strategy. The
Health Sector Reform Program was designed to contribute to meeting one of the four CAS core
benchmarks - the infant mortality rate. It was acknowledged that reducing infant mortality was a
higher-level objective that would take time and that the health sector would have to adapt to
changes occurring throughout the implementation of the overall reform program. Moreover, the
infant mortality rate (IMR) is influenced by many factors and this program, with its maternal and
child focus could only contribute to ­ not guarantee ­ improvements in the IMR. The APL also
placed considerable emphasis on results-oriented management, an important feature of the 1998
CAS, the 2001 CAS Update, and Bolivia's Poverty Reduction Strategy, as well as the Interim
Strategy Note discussed by the Board in late 2006.

Given its prior involvement in the social sectors, the Bank was particularly well placed for adding
value by supporting this project through strengthening coordination of interventions across
sectors and ensuring a holistic view of health status development based on results. It also had the
ability to leverage project results toward overall development objectives, to carry out networking
and to use its knowledge management capabilities to learn from other countries undergoing
similar processes and other sectors of the Bolivian economy. Additionally, it had been playing an
important role in the health sector by helping to mobilize resources and encourage donor
coordination.




                                                 2

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDOs for APL II were: (i) to increase coverage and quality of health services and related
programs that would improve the health of the population, and to empower communities to
improve their health status; and (ii) to strengthen local capacity to respond to health needs.

Key indicators for assessing achievement of PDOs were established. These consisted of a set of
nine indicators aimed at measuring performance on coverage, quality, equity and sustainability of
health services provided to the population. Additionally, two indicators were added to evaluate
the allocation of funds to the vaccines program and the continued use of automatic earmarking of
funds to municipalities to finance the insurance scheme. The first eight indicators were included
in the Matrix of Performance Benchmarks used as a trigger for the third phase. Key indicators
defined at appraisal were the following:


Coverage Indicators
    ·   Births attended by trained health personnel
    ·   Pneumonia cases of children attended in health services
    ·   Immunization coverage with pentavalent vaccine
    ·   Percent of children under 2 with third dose of iron
Quality Indicators
    ·   Complete prenatal care attendance
    ·   Early neonatal hospital mortality.
Equity Indicator
    ·   Number of municipalities with pentavalent coverage of less than 80%.
Sustainability Indicator
    ·   Annual targets for the domestic financing of vaccines.
    ·   Continued use of automatic earmarking of fund for the health insurance system by
        municipalities.

In addition, targets were set that would trigger initiation of the third phase of the program. These
triggers were chosen to measure progress in coverage, quality and equity of health services
provided, as follows:

    ·   Performance Agreements (PA) would continue to be signed and monitored for all
        regions (departments) and at least three large municipalities;
    ·   The Insurance System (SBS later replaced by the SUMI1) would continue to be utilized
        as an instrument to finance basic health care for the poor. Within the framework of
        decentralization, it would continue to be implemented by municipalities and regulated by
        the Ministry of Health and Sports (MSD). Financial controls and audits will have been
        strengthened.
    ·   EXTENSA (the National Program for the Expansion of Coverage of the SBS/SUMI)
        would have deployed no less than 150 health teams combining indigenous community
        agents and health professionals in underserved locations and financing of the new teams
        will become absorbed into national budgets in a fashion consistent with the process of
        decentralization;
    ·   New vaccines would be incorporated into the national schedule of vaccines with
        nationwide coverage and would be fully financed by the government;



1The Basic Health Insurance (SBS) was replaced by the Mother-Child Universal Insurance scheme
known as SUMI ­ from the initials in Spanish: Seguro Universal Materno Infantil


                                                   3

    ·   An equitable system to finance municipal investments in basic health would be put in
        place, along with clearly defined financing mechanisms.
    ·   At least five of the eight key performance indicators, included in the Matrix of
        Performance Benchmarks, should reach their targets.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification


The definition of the key indicator to measure the quality of prenatal care attendance was
modified during the mid-term review. This indicator had been defined originally as the ratio of
the number of pregnant women with four prenatal controls to the number of pregnant women
with a first prenatal care control. During the mid-term review, the Government proposed to
revise the definition because it had detected an unusually high level of first controls due to
pregnant women having a choice of health care provider with no system to register affiliations.
Since the indicator became distorted by this fact, the Government proposed to replace the
denominator by the number of expected live births which was considered to better reflect the
objective of measuring the proportion of pregnant women with complete prenatal controls. Both
a new baseline and targets were estimated to allow subsequent monitoring for the period extended
beyond the original closing date.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Phase II of the APL, similar to Phase I, was designed to benefit all Bolivian children under 5 and all
mothers using public health services through improving access to the health insurance system
(SBS/SUMI). The target population for the program was 25 percent of the total population representing
about 2 million people. The project also aimed at strengthening the Expanded Immunization Program
(EPI), by incorporating new vaccines and re-directing current efforts in nutrition to focus on children
under 2 throughout the country. The local capacity-boosting component was aimed at increasing the
effectiveness and efficiency of the health services provided to the targeted beneficiaries by reinforcing the
decentralization process, enhancing problem-solving skills at the departmental and district level, and
improving information and financing systems. The main long-term benefit was expected to be improved
welfare arising directly and indirectly from the reduction of mortality and the burden of disease. In
particular, the focus of the National Program on Coverage Extension was addressed to under-served
segments of the population living primarily in poor rural areas with dispersed, indigenous populations and
to marginal urban areas. This enabled making public spending in the health sector in Bolivia more
equitable, contributing to reduce the large and growing disparities in health status between the rich and
the poor


1.5 Original Components (as approved)


Component 1: Coverage and Quality improvements of the SBS/SUMI and empowerment of
Communities.

A. Strengthening Policy Development, Regulation and Monitoring of the SBS/SUMI, by
supporting: improvement of the quality of information on the production of services and on the
health status of the population; the development of new policies and the management and
supervision of the SBS/SUMI; and the implementation of activities that empower indigenous
users of the SBS/SUMI.
B. Strengthening National Health Programs for Mothers and Children, by supporting: the
continued implementation of the Second Generation of the Expanded Program of Immunizations
(EPI) and the preparation and implementation of multi-donor support programs for the Integrated
Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI), the Mother-Baby Package (MBP), Nutrition and
medical waste management at the primary level.

                                                 4

Activities related to this component were designed to contribute to increased coverage and quality
in the provision of services covered by the insurance system, and immunization and nutrition
programs.

Component 2: Local Capacity to respond to the health needs of the population
A. Assignment of Health Teams to Expand the Coverage of the SBS/SUMI, by supporting:
the management of EXTENSA (the National Program for the expansion of coverage of the
SBS/SUMI), including targeting techniques to assign the new health teams; the financing,
training, and light-equipping of health teams consisting of community workers and itinerant
professionals in underserved areas; and technical assistance to municipalities to deploy the new
teams;
B. Investment Sub-Projects to Expand the Coverage of the SBS/SUMI. These sub-projects
would finance civil works and equipment required to make an effective use of the new health
teams assigned to currently underserved areas. This component was aimed at addressing the
coverage of the provision of health services expanding the availability of such services in rural
areas with dispersed population and improving the infrastructure and equipment of decentralized
facilities.

Component 3: Monitoring of Performance Indicators and Project Coordination

The MSD was responsible, through the General Office of Health Services (DGSS), for carrying
out the project in accordance with an agreed Operational Manual. A Project Implementation Unit
(URS), under the DGSS, managed implementation of the project on a day-to-day basis,
coordinating with other agencies, and promoting the project locally; developing and
administering systems for monitoring its impact and physical progress, and financial
management. It also monitored preparation and execution of the investments carried out by the
municipalities through the Social and Productive Fund (FPS).


1.6 Revised Components

Project components were not revised during implementation.


1.7 Other significant changes

Three extensions of the closing date were granted covering a total period of 24 months ­ from the
original closing date of June 30, 2006 to June 30, 2008. As the original benchmarks for
performance indicators covered only the period 2002-2005, additional targets were set for 2006
and 2007. All these changes were approved by Bank management. It should be noted that
because the third phase (APL III) was appraised and approved during 2007, the triggers were
assessed using indicators reflecting the status of APL II by the end of 2006.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project was adequately designed with clear and well-defined overall objectives. It was based
on the positive experience gained during execution of the first phase of the APL series.
Monitoring indicators for PDOs were defined at appraisal and a baseline was established based on
the information available from the first phase (APL I). However, two of the eight key indicators
needed to be revised during implementation either because they were being distorted or because
they did not adequately reflect the desired objective.       Two minor shortcomings are worth
mentioning. The first one is that the EXTENSA scheme design did not contemplate a strong
formal linkage to the health service providers' network at the department level. Such association

                                                  5

would have provided a needed integration to facilitate practices within the network and a better
referral system. The second one refers to the definition of some monitoring indicators. The
definition of two of them (prenatal care attendance and neonatal hospital mortality) had to be
revised during the mid-term review and a third one (pneumonia cases treated) had to be
disregarded as a meaningful benchmark for going ahead with the Third Phase.

Some key lessons from APL I incorporated into the project design were: (i) development of a
results-oriented culture based on establishing well-defined indicators with realistic targets
monitored to allow implementation of corrective actions; (ii) use of incentives for local actors
making local authorities accountable and by providing "market" incentives for providers and for
users to reach the targets set in the PAs; and (iii) focusing on a few priority activities and
emphasizing capacity development avoiding overburdening the limited capacity of participating
institutions (MSD, municipalities, districts) and simultaneously creating capacity for a slightly
more ambitious agenda.

Indications of the Borrower's commitment and ownership identified at appraisal were: (i) the
Government had successfully met the triggers for continuing with the second phase; (ii) the
Government presented a Sector Policy Letter stating its interest in this project as part of its
strategy to address poverty issues and also stating its commitment to financing vaccines and
EXTENSA; (iii) the Government attached high priority to this project in the context of the CAS
discussions; and (iv) all municipalities participating in the health insurance scheme and all
regions (departments) were signing PAs reflecting the objectives of the program.

Project risks were adequately identified and their assessment and mitigating measures took into
account political, economic and institutional factors prevailing at the time that the project was
appraised, and which could affect implementation. Main risks, rated as high, and the appropriate
measures incorporated into the project design to mitigate them included:

    ·    Insufficient coordination among Bolivian institutions. To mitigate this risk the project
         aimed at developing a strong partnership between health reformers in the Bolivian
         Government, and between the Bank and other donors.
    ·    Health Sector donors do not join in support of the policies of EXTENSA. Here the
         project design envisioned that the Bank's dialogue on human resource issues would
         continue to promote these policies, partly by disseminating similar international
         experiences.
    ·    Lack of active participation by municipalities in project management. To mitigate this
         risk, the Project was expected to be proactive providing technical assistance to
         municipalities and ensuring a fair allocation of resources.

By contrast, the prolonged political instability and social unrest that covered extended periods of
project implementation (as discussed in paragraph 1.1) could not have been foreseen at the time
the Project was appraised. Bolivia had enjoyed nearly two decades of relative political stability
with all governments completing their terms since democracy was re-established in the early
eighties.


No formal review by the QAG was undertaken for this project.


2.2 Implementation

The changing political climate that prevailed after the credit became effective had a strong
influence on the pace of implementation. This led to initial delays in starting implementation,
which continued with the combined effect of frequent changes of ministers of health and project
authorities and budgetary constraints. Another consequence was that the Project underwent
numerous changes in its management. Each new Minister of Health tried to introduce different

                                                  6

approaches and emphases to address key sector issues. However, these changes, by and large, did
not affect the strategic direction that the reform process had taken, and key programs were
expanded or improved but no major aspect was dropped or reversed.

Disbursements were very slow throughout the first two years of implementation and project
activities were concentrated on design activities to expand the health insurance scheme from the
more restricted SBS to the SUMI. An intensive period of discussions took place, mostly during
2002, and while the Government and the Bank agreed on the design of the new expanded scheme,
they had different views on the implementation strategy. It took a while to reach a consensus. It
had been agreed that the EXTENSA and EPI programs would be financed with credit resources
on a declining basis, but coordination with the Ministry of Finance was weak and this ministry
never got closely involved in following up project implementation. Implementation progressed
well during 2004 in spite of delays in getting budgets approved that were needed to enable
carrying out the annual work program agreed for the project.

By the mid-term review (April 2005), it was already foreseen that the project was not going to be
completed by the closing date. The definition of one performance indicator associated with the
PDO was revised during the mid-term review. As discussed in para. 1.3, the indicator for
prenatal care attendance was revised to better reflect the proportion of pregnant women that were
receiving complete care attendance. Additionally, some adjustments were made to the early
neonatal hospital mortality indicator. The number of hospitals included in the sample to measure
this indicator was increased from 10 to 15. It was also acknowledged that the baseline and the
targets for this indicator had been based on national averages which did not adequately reflect
improvements in the quality of service provided by the selected hospitals. The fifteen hospitals
selected were the largest in Bolivia and also receive more complicated birth cases than the rest of
the health facilities. Consequently, the baseline and the targets were adjusted to better reflect the
situation of these hospitals.

By the time the project was completed, total funds available in dollar terms were 14 percent
higher than at approval making available US$5.0 million of additional resources not foreseen
originally. This was due to the depreciation of the dollar vis-à-vis the SDR. These extra
resources were used to finance additional investments in infrastructure that were chosen to
selectively expand coverage and improve quality of health services. Also, the demographic and
health survey (DHS) for 2008 was partially financed using some of these additional resources.

Total Government contributions were substantially lower than anticipated at appraisal reaching
barely 16.3 percent of total project costs, compared with 50 percent estimated at appraisal (Annex
1). This underfunding mainly affected Component 1 ­ Improvements in coverage and quality of
health insurance systems ­ with a total investment of only 40 percent of that estimated at
appraisal.    The fiscal situation, particularly during the period 2003-2005, was primarily
responsible for the underfunding.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Project outcomes, including the evolution of IMR, were evaluated by comparing the results of the
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) of 1998, the results from the census of 2001 and the
DHS of 2002. Results from the 2008 DHS, partially financed under this project, will only
become available in the next few months.

The project was executed at local levels of the health system, particularly in Departmental Health
Services (SEDES), districts, municipalities, and health establishments. Project M&E relied on
maintaining a system (based on the SNIS) to monitor project progress. Additionally, specialized
studies were carried out as needed. PAs were a key instrument for supervising activities and key


                                                 7

targets to be achieved by decentralized entities at the sub-national level. These PAs also became
an effective mechanism for allocating resources linked to specific results.

The MSD conducted and issued regular progress reports, including indicators monitored using the
National Health Information System (SNIS).          Some deficiencies were reported in the data
provided by the SNIS regarding gathering and processing information of adequate quality on a
timely basis. These are expected to be addressed during the third phase of the program (APL III)
covering the areas of data gathering, analysis, reporting and management. The follow-up project
would support the development of the SNIS in order to increase its capacity to gather, analyze
and manipulate data. This upgrade of the system is crucially needed, so that robust and accurate
health data will be available for a wide range of reporting, including results monitoring.
Additionally, an impact assessment would be introduced as a complementary evaluation tool.

Deficiencies in the SNIS were compounded by shortcomings in the definition of some indicators
and the lack of monitoring for indicators introduced to assess outcomes by components. Nearly
all other indicators defined to monitor progress towards achieving results for project components
were not monitored on a regular basis. These were not included in Progress Reports issued by the
MSD nor were reviewed, as a matter of routine, by supervision missions. Additionally, key
variables used in the ex-ante economic evaluation (maternal mortality and children mortality due
to diarrhea and pneumonia) were not monitored routinely to enable an ex-post evaluation.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The supervision of procurement and contracting processes was the responsibility of the MSD and
the FPS (in the case of the health sub-projects), for all resources transferred under its
administration. The specific procedures were detailed in the Operational Manual and included the
use of Standard Bidding Documents. No significant deviations from the Bank guidelines were
identified during implementation.

A Financial Management Assessment performed in the Project Unit (URS) determined that the
unit had in place accounting and internal control systems, which were in accordance with
accounting standards that reliably record and report all assets, liabilities and financial transactions
of the project and that provide sufficient information for managing and monitoring project
activities. During implementation, the borrower complied with the financial covenants of the
Credit, presented the Project's annual financial and external audit reports with no significant
delays, and no serious internal control observations were reported.

The Project included support for community empowerment activities in areas with significant
ethnic and cultural diversity. Because most of the non-native population (43 percent) has had
good access to health services for some time, most of the coverage expansion was among the
native population.     The Project continued the efforts started under APL I focusing on
strengthening teams dedicated to community work and increasing awareness of ethnic issues
among health staff and creating or strengthening practices accordingly. An assessment conducted
by the end of the Project, as part of the appraisal of APL III, found that there is still a generalized
perception that hospitals discriminate against indigenous people and are unwilling to respect their
traditions. It also found that traditional medicine is extensively used across the country but it is
not integrated with health services. On the positive side, a survey established that SUMI is
currently used by 84 percent of interviewed families. APL III would continue to address these
issues through its component on Family, Community and Intercultural Health that would receive
about 40 percent of the resources allocated for that project.




                                                  8

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The year 2008 has been a transition period for the project. While the credit for the third phase
(APL III) was approved in December 2007, it is not likely that it will begin implementation until
early 2009. The Minister of Health was replaced in March 2008 and several features of the health
reform process were being revisited. EXTENSA is being redefined to strengthen its links with
decentralized institutions and communities. Now it is being financed completely with local
funding but the current power struggle between the Government and departmental authorities
(Prefectos) has jeopardized the flow of funds to the regions, including earmarked funding for
health services, affecting its implementation. The health insurance system has also been revised
and a new version has been set up supported by APL III. It is worth noting that the health
insurance scheme is now well rooted in Bolivia. A broad political consensus supports the public
sector financing wider coverage of basic services. Shortly after the closing date, the minister of
health was replaced again and the new Minister expressed his commitment to expedite processing
of all required approvals to reach effectiveness of APL III.

Most of these pending issues will be addressed during implementation of the APL III, which has
been designed to ensure completion of the health reform process. Emphasis has been placed on
strengthening the management of the health sector at all levels to enable a wider coverage of
health services of better quality, including some investments in infrastructure carried out by the
FPS. Consequently, no funding will be provided to cover the provision of services, as was done
in this project and its predecessor. Another key change is that the project unit will be dismantled
and project activities will be mainstreamed within the MSD institutional structure. This will
include the creation of a special section, within MSD, to manage administrative aspects (basically
finance and procurement) for all projects receiving external financing.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives established for the Project were well in line with efforts to address the most
critical health sector issues identified for the reform program. The PDOs for APL II were the
same as those agreed for the first phase (APL I). The GOB has acknowledged that the stated
objectives remain relevant at present and the current strategy outlined for the health sector has
been designed to continue to address appropriate issues. It is worth noting that APL III will
primarily focus on objectives consistent with those defined for this operation: reduce occurrence
of critical risk factors affecting maternal and infant health, reduce chronic malnutrition among
children less than 2 years of age, increase health insurance coverage, and upgrade the SNIS.
These objectives also are consistent with the current Bank strategy agreed with the Morales
administration included as part of the Interim Strategy Note discussed by the Board in late 2006.
One of the three key strategic objectives agreed is to provide better services to the poor.
Improving the health status of low income people continues to be a priority in Bolivia and is well
in line with the National Development Plan.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project continued to support most of the policies introduced under APL I as well as
interventions to improve the performance of the public health services. These policies and
instruments were aimed at improving infant and maternal health status, including the expanded
infant and maternal public insurance scheme, PAs, prioritized investment sub-projects and the
strengthening of cost-effective health interventions (including the PAI, IMCI and MBP).
Likewise, it increased the participation of municipalities in health care delivery throughout the

                                                  9

country, by earmarking to the SBS/SUMI a significant fraction of the resources transferred from
the national government to the municipal authorities and making explicit the responsibilities of
the latter in providing health services. A more detailed discussion of achievements for project
components is presented in Annex 2.

Most intermediate and outcome indicators for infant and maternal health continued to improve,
although some of them failed to fully meet their targets. Infant mortality was defined as the key
higher level objective the project was contributing to reduce. A baseline for the IMR was
established, for the APL program, at 67 deaths per 1,000 live births based on the 1998 DHS. By
the end of APL I (2001) the IMR had marked a significant improvement by reaching a level of
54. Although final results from the 2008 DHS are not yet available, it is estimated that the IMR
has continued to decrease to a preliminary estimated level of 50.

To monitor progress in achieving the PDO, the nine key indicators described in 1.2 were
established. During appraisal, targets were specified for each performance indicator for the final
year of APL II (2005). By the time the closing date of the credit was extended, new targets were
added for the extended implementation period, covering 2006 and 2007. The following table
compares the baseline, original and extended targets with achievements by the original closing
date and by the end of the project (2007 data) for the nine indicators included in the performance
matrix.

                                       Performance Indicators


   Type of           Specific Indicator            Baseline       Original      Actual      Extended     Actual
  Indicator                                         (2001)         Target       (2005)       Target      (2007)
                                                                   (2005)                    (2007)
Coverage        Births attended by trained           51%            65%          62%          66%         64%
                health personnel
Coverage        Pneumonia cases of children        124,849        135,000       164,000      157,976     156,975
                attended in health services
Coverage        Immunization coverage with           92%            90%          84%          90%         82%
                pentavalent vaccine
Coverage        Children under five with             2%             35%          31%          41%         46%
                third dose of iron
Quality         Complete prenatal care               38%            65%          46%           *           *
                attendance
                (original definition)
Quality         Complete prenatal care               43%            N.A.         50%          57%         53%
                attendance
                (adjusted definition)
Quality         Early neonatal hospital               17             11           12           11          11
                mortality
                (per thousand live births)
Equity          No. of municipalities with            75             25          139           25         150
                pentavalent coverage less
                than 80%
Sustainability  Annual target for the                2.0             5.5         5.5           6.5        8.4
                domestic financing of
                vaccines (US$ million)
Sustainability  Continued use of automatic        Budgetary     Allocation       Law          Law         Law
                earmarking of funds for           allocation       By law      Approved     enforced    enforced
                SBS/SUMI by municipalities
* Because this indicator's definition was adjusted, no additional target was formulated for 2006 and 2007




                                                    10

Specific achievements for each indicator are discussed below.

1. Coverage of births attended by trained health personnel. With a baseline of 51 percent for
2001, the Project set a target of 65 percent for 2005, subsequently extended to 66 percent for
2007. The trend in this indicator was very positive during the first few years. By 2005 skilled
birth attendance had reached a coverage of 62 percent and grew to 64 percent by 2007, in both
cases falling just below the target set for each year. It can be considered that coverage of skill
birth attendance substantially met the target.

2. Pneumonia cases of children attended in health services. Total number of cases recorded
increased exceeding the original target and practically reaching the extended target (at 99
percent).    It should be noted however, that this indicator may not necessarily reflect an
improvement in coverage.         Diagnosing pneumonia requires specialized medical staff with
appropriate equipment and it is uncertain that this diagnostic was thoroughly done for all cases
reported. Additionally, improvements in the capacity and quality of the diagnosis increase the
specificity of the diagnosis, leading to a reduction in the number of illnesses reported as
pneumonia.

3. Immunization coverage with pentavalent vaccine. Although adequately funded, this
indicator did not show any significant improvement, with the coverage percentage stabilizing in
the low to mid 80s during the last five years, compared with the original target for 2005 and
extended for 2007, both set at 90 percent. Health authorities are concerned with this issue and are
constantly strengthening actions by health services and launching special immunization
campaigns, but no further progress has been achieved. One possible interpretation is that children
immunized are compared with the total estimated population of children by extrapolating census
data. It appears that there may be an overestimation of total number of children, which affects the
result of this indicator. This issue will be specifically addressed during APL III. In any case, due
to the lack of firm data to substantiate this claim, it has been assessed that this indicator did not
meet the original or the extended target.

4. Children under five with third dose of iron. The proportion of children under five years of
age receiving three annual doses of iron increased dramatically from 2 percent in 2002 to 46
percent by 2007, exceeding the target of 41 percent established for that year. The original target
for 2005 was substantially met reaching 31% compared with a target of 35% set for that year. It
has been considered that coverage of children with third dose of iron met the target.

5. Complete prenatal care attendance. This indicator fell well short of the original target set
for 2005 (46% compared with 65%). The original target was not met. As explained earlier in
para. 3.1, the definition for this indicator was adjusted by the Mid-Term Review and new targets
were set for the extended period until 2007. The adjusted indicator also failed to meet the
2007 target reaching a proportion of 53 percent of pregnant women having completed four
prenatal controls, compared with a target set at 57 percent. It should be noted that the previous
year it had reached 56 percent, exceeding the target set for 2006. It appears that it would be
difficult to achieve further improvements in this indicator. Most pregnant women not completing
their controls live in the highlands and are of indigenous descent, facing cultural limitations to
being examined by male doctors. This factor seems to represent a critical obstacle for achieving
further improvements in prenatal care attendance.

6. Early neonatal hospital mortality. The neonatal mortality rate was reduced from 17 per
thousand to 11 per thousand achieving both the original target for 2005 and the extended
target. However, achievements with this indicator can be subject to different interpretations.
While better treatment should reduce the neonatal mortality rate, improvements in the referral

                                                  11

network will increase the proportion of severe cases reaching the 15 selected hospitals, thus
increasing the early neonatal mortality rate.

7. Number of municipalities with pentavalent coverage of less than 80 percent. This is an
important indicator of equity in immunization coverage. Even when average national coverage
levels are high, there may be hidden pockets of very low coverage which could be the source of
outbreaks. This indicator attempts to measure the success of the EPI in eliminating these pockets
of low coverage by reaching out to areas that have low access to health services and high poverty
levels. Unfortunately, there are serious inconsistencies in the data collection deriving from
distorted, generally inflated, population figures in municipalities that are scarcely populated.
Most of these municipalities are reporting very low coverage. For this reason, this indicator
failed to accurately reflect the actual situation. Although the actual proportion of municipalities
with 80 percent coverage is considered to be somewhat higher than the number shown by the
official statistics, it is considered that this indicator failed to meet its original and extended
targets.

8. Annual target for the domestic financing of vaccines. This indicator fully met its original
and extended targets, reflecting the commitment of the Government to sustainability in the
immunization programs.


9. Continued use of automatic earmarking of funds for SBS/SUMI by municipalities. This
indicator was fully met both for the original and the extended targets. Financing of SUMI
became guaranteed by law by earmarking a proportion (10 percent) of the municipalities' share of
national tax revenues to be used for funding health insurance.

Six triggers (described in 1.2) were identified to evaluate progress under this Project that, if met,
would enable negotiations for APL III. The assessment made by mid 2007 concluded that all
triggers were achieved, with the exception of indicators included in the performance matrix that
were considered partially achieved (only three of the eight indicators had been fully achieved
during 2006). Status of these triggers by completion of the Project, referred to 2007 data, was as
follows:

Annual PAs. Despite political conflicts during the last two years between central and some
regional governments, these agreements continued to be routinely signed, with some delays, at
the departmental level. Agreements included all key sector stockholders: SEDES, departmental
and municipal authorities.

Basic Health Insurance. APL II put considerable effort toward expanding health insurance
coverage for economically disadvantaged mothers and children. The original SBS scheme was
expanded to become SUMI with a wider coverage of services. Financing was provided regularly
in a decentralized manner.

The National Program for the Expansion of Coverage (EXTENSA). The objective of this
program was to provide direct basic health services to populations in remote areas of the country.
By 2007, EXTENSA was reaching over 300,000 people, mostly indigenous, in about 2,500
villages, having reached an even higher level during the previous year. However, the target of
deploying no less than 150 teams was not achieved or maintained in a sustainable way. It should
be highlighted that nonetheless, at the peak, 124 teams were deployed covering 196
municipalities. Financing of EXTENSA was progressively absorbed by the national treasury.

New Vaccines. Haemophilus influenza type B (HIB) and Hepatitis B vaccines were introduced
into the basic series of the EPI at the beginning of implementation. During 2007, nearly US$12
million was appropriated for the EPI and more than half of it was being used for procuring
vaccines and syringes, specifically the pentavalent vaccine.

                                                  12

Equitable system to finance municipal investments. Resource allocations under component
2.B (Investment in sub-projects) were framed under the Policy of National Compensation which
allocated funds to municipalities on the basis of unmet basic needs. However, during
implementation it was detected that this mechanism was not adequate for ensuring equity in
health services. As a result, a new assessment system was designed and implemented based on a
vulnerability index. The national social and economic authority approved the allocation formulas
based on a sliding scale reflecting vulnerability of municipalities, which were classified in five
groups. The most vulnerable municipalities (Group 5) receive 45 percent of the funds available
whereas those in Group 1 receive only 15 percent.


3.3 Efficiency

During appraisal it was estimated that the Project would contribute to improve the health status of
about 300,000 children under age 5 in Bolivia's poorest areas. The project was expected to save
approximately 12,500 deaths between 2002 and 2005. The NPV of the investment was estimated
at about US$85,000 and its IRR at 10%.

The ex-post cost-benefit analysis could not be completed because of insufficient information. The
ex-ante analysis considered the economic benefits resulting from deaths averted by the project
mainly through: (i) increased treatment coverage of children under five suffering from diarrhea
and pneumonia; and (ii) increased institutional maternal delivery. The Project monitoring system,
however, focused on a different set of indicators, related to the performance benchmarks
considered for the Project. In this sense, during its implementation, the Project did not generate
enough information on the variables applied in the economic analysis to enable an ex-post
replication of the ex-ante simulation.

Other related information ­ obtained from several national sources and from the Project itself ­
proved to be inadequate proxies for the required variables. For instance, infant and maternal
mortality rates reported by the SNIS significantly increased during project implementation,
contradicting comprehensive health surveys that show a continuous reduction of both rates. These
discrepancies may actually reflect a progressive improvement of health-data registration by the
SNIS instead of a deterioration of health indicators in the population.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
While objectives remained relevant, PDOs were largely met. Coverage and quality of health
services were increased, communities were empowered to improve their health status and local
capacity to respond to health needs was strengthened. Additionally, there were significant
institutional improvements through consolidating management practices (the Performance
Agreements) at the departmental and municipality levels.           However, there were moderate
shortcomings in the achievement of targets established for key indicators. Out of the nine
indicators chosen to assess achievement of PDOs, four indicators fully met both the original
(2005) and the extended targets established, two partially met them, and another three fell short of
the targets. It should be noted that the trigger established for going ahead with the Third Phase of
the APL series was that was that five out of eight of these indicators (excluding the last one)
should meet the target set at appraisal. In summary, these are considered moderate shortcomings
and, consequently, the Overall Outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.




                                                  13

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


The Project had positive impact on rural mothers and children, since its activities
gave emphasis to improving access to health services in rural areas where poverty is
concentrated. Additionally, it focused in particular on indigenous populations. The
Project's interventions reached municipalities with the highest vulnerability.
Efforts were also made to adjust procedures to the characteristics and the socio-
cultural needs of the different districts and communities with indigenous population.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Establishing the practice of using annual PAs between the central administration and
decentralized entities may have the most significant long-term impact in the efficiency of public
resource use. Additionally, the project considerably strengthened decentralized entities, notably
networks of health service providers and municipalities.        It provided resources to finance
demand-driven local subprojects to improve, inter alia, the quality of maternal and child services,
the development of social communication activities to strengthen the information, voice and
empowerment of beneficiaries, and the implementation of new instruments of health sector
management. To complement this results-oriented effort at the departmental level, the Project
supported the evaluation and certification of public hospitals and health centers

It also contributed to enhance sustainability in the provision of health services in dispersed
municipalities with high incidence of poverty and concentration of indigenous people, by
earmarking the allocation of financial resources established by special laws.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

No unintended outcomes or impacts were identified.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There were no beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops carried out under this project.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


During the Project's early implementation years (2002-2005), the risks identified in
the PAD as high proved less challenging than envisioned, and were mitigated. The
main risk to the continuation and expansion of the outcomes achieved with the
Project's support derives from the uncertainty arising from the social and political
context. However, the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government provided clear
indications that the Project's objectives are consistent with prevailing policies and
strategies. Despite political changes and the decision of the current administration
to review some features of the Health Reform Program, authorities have decided not
only to provide continuity to the majority of programs, but to increase the scope and
emphasis for some of them. This is the case for the health insurance scheme, now
expanded as the Universal Health Insurance (SU SALUD), and the Zero
Malnutrition Program, both supported under the Third Phase.


                                                14

The Health Reform Program contains several components with significant recurrent cost
implications. One is the health insurance scheme, which is financed by the municipalities
receiving earmarked funds from their share of national tax revenues. Continued financing of the
insurance scheme by municipalities is a necessary condition for the success of the health reform
program. Sustainability is likely due to a national consensus on its priority and the fact that with
enhanced hydrocarbon resources municipalities are likely to continue receiving adequate funding.
A second component with recurrent cost implications is the program designed to expand coverage
of the insurance scheme. This Program is currently under review, but the Government is
committed to continuing to implementing it with some modifications to ensure it becomes more
integrated to communities. In the interim, some regions have been financing mobile health teams
with their own resources and seeking support from other donors.            A third component is
immunization. This is being financed as a national program and the Government gives high
priority to finance the recurrent costs of the immunization program with National Treasury funds.
It should be stated that none of these changes is considered detrimental to the ultimate
achievement of development outcomes or is expected to have a negative impact.

The decentralized system of fiscal transfers in Bolivia also includes schemes to provide resources
to municipalities to finance projects selected by local governments from a menu of options
presented to them. These transfers, managed by the FPS, are attractive to the municipalities since
they do not have to pay the full cost of investments and they are targeted based on the
vulnerability of municipalities.

Ensuring sustainability of this program was a trigger for the approval of APL III. Implementation
of this Third Phase of the reform program, with Bank support, ensures continuity of actions while
maintaining an ongoing dialogue with the Government until project completion in 2014. This
could become an important tool to alleviate risks associated with a volatile political climate with
a latent risk of social conflict and clearly give the Bank a key role of assisting in keeping the
Health Reform Program on track.

Taking into account the reasons discussed above, the risk that development outcome will
not be maintained is rated as moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Satisfactory.
Preparation and appraisal of the Project was well founded on the experience gained under
the first phase, which had successfully implemented critical reforms in the financing and
provision of health services. Project design and objectives were in line with priorities
defined in the CAS. It is interesting to note that the Project was designed in one
political context that changed several times later during implementation. However,
the strategic direction of the Health Sector Reform supported by the project was
broadly maintained by the several administrations that followed.                    Most of the
changes introduced implied only a change in emphasis on certain aspects that led to
adjusting some design features. The only minor shortcomings in the original design
were not having foreseen a closer integration and coordination between the project
unit and the rest of the ministry, and deficiencies in the definition of some

                                                 15

monitoring indicators. Some steps were taken to address the integration issue by
placing the project unit under the DGSS but, in retrospect, this was not sufficient to
ensure the amalgamation sought.           Two of the three questioned indicators were
modified during the mid-term review.

Only minor shortcomings were identified during the appraisal process, leading to assessing the
Bank performance for ensuring quality at entry as Satisfactory.


(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory. Despite all the problems faced during
project implementation, the Bank team responded adequately to Government
requests in a fast-changing environment. The Borrower valued the Bank's inputs
and assistance to address issues providing international experience and knowledge.


It is worth noting that the Bank team did provide continuity during a difficult period
of frequent changes overcoming the excessive changes in task leaders ­ a total of five
task   leaders     were appointed       by    the   Bank      management   during     project
implementation.       This may have been the cause of minor shortcomings.                For
example, task leaders routinely overlooked monitoring the key indicators
established for measuring results for each project component. Only two out of some
25 key indicators were reported regularly in implementation reports.                All task
managers put a similar emphasis on monitoring whether key performance indicators
were meeting their annual benchmarks, while the rest of the triggers, for going
ahead with the third phase, were followed up indirectly through verifying progress
in the relevant components. Since these are considered minor shortcomings, quality
of supervision is rated as Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Given the reasons stated above for the rating given to the Bank Performance for design and
supervision, the overall Bank Performance is rated as satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As stated earlier, difficult political, social and economic conditions prevailed during
project implementation. Constant change of authorities at many levels in the
executive branch prevented the Borrower from having an adequate enabling
environment for a smooth implementation of the health reform process. The Project
was approved and implemented under five different administrations that appointed
six ministries of health during the 2001-2008 period. This led to inadequate timing
for resolving pending issues, particularly for funding critical project activities. This
led to delays in immunization campaigns and in establishing mobile units to expand
coverage in rural areas.        Additionally, shortcomings in the information system
(SNIS) prevented the project from carrying out a satisfactory monitoring of key
indicators. Moreover, key project authorities were replaced shortly before project
completion, creating unnecessary difficulties in completing certain activities, such as


                                               16

two important evaluations that were not finished. All these are considered moderate
shortcomings, and government performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The constant change of authorities in the Ministry of Health also had deep repercussions in the
implementing agency (URS). Numerous changes of key staff produced delays and untimely
resolution of pending issues. This was particularly severe during 2003 and 2004 when project
management was rated unsatisfactory. Later on, the pace of implementation improved somewhat
and during the last few years, project management was rated as Moderately Satisfactory. In
particular, coordination with the Ministry of Finance was inadequate, leading to frequent delays
in providing counterpart funding, even during 2005-07 within an atmosphere of budget surplus.
Management of one component (infrastructure sub-projects) was the responsibility of the FPS
with some delays in implementation and other minor shortcomings. Additionally, the monitoring
and evaluation system for the project failed to follow up regularly on the agreed indicators to
monitor progress at the component level. All these are considered moderate shortcomings and,
consequently the rating for the implementing agency is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The most important lessons that can be drawn from the design and implementation of this project
are as follows.

    ·   The use of a project executing unit not fully integrated to the Ministry of Health's
        core organizational configuration may undermine its active involvement in project
        implementation activities. Based on the experience gained during the First Phase,
        Project design made an attempt to move the implementation unit closer to the Ministry's
        mainstream activities. This lukewarm effort did not yield meaningful results. On the
        contrary, most senior staff from the Ministry resented the existence of this special unit
        with higher salaries and easy access to the Minister. This attitude was not helpful to
        address project implementation activities, which needed a close collaboration with
        relevant departments within the Ministry. Most senior staff interviewed, including two
        former ministers, highlighted this issue as something that needed to be corrected. Design
        of the Third Phase took this factor into account and the follow-up project (APL III) will
        be implemented by the Ministry's own departments.

    ·   The implications of international currency fluctuations for project financing need to
        be closely monitored. Both the credit amount and disbursements are denominated in
        SDRs, but the project budget and resources available through the special account are
        denominated in dollars. During project implementation, the dollar underwent a severe
        depreciation, of about 27 percent, with respect to the SDR. As a consequence, additional
        dollar resources were generated for the project which was allocated, during the extension
        of the closing date, to finance badly needed infrastructure and the Demographic and
        Health Survey for 2008.      The SDR/dollar rate needs to be monitored closely and
        highlighted during supervision.

    ·   A careful selection of monitoring indicators is essential to adequately reflect
        objectives and outcomes. The use of well-defined indicators to monitor outcomes and

                                                17

       processes serves an important purpose by ensuring focus and aligning interventions
       towards the achievement of a set of clear benchmarks. Most indicators chosen for this
       Project met this criterion. Only three of them could have had been defined in a manner
       better suited to meet their objectives. Careful definition, whether in absolute or relative
       terms, is essential for indicators to be in harmony with the outcome or process to be
       monitored.    Additionally, each variable chosen should be reported through existing
       information systems accurately and with the required periodicity. The indicator for
       pneumonia cases of children treated in health services (para. 3.1) is an example of data
       that did not adequately reflect the outcome that was intended to measure. Additionally,
       it is important that the selection of monitoring indicators include key variables used in the
       economic evaluation when a cost-benefit analysis is undertaken. This would ensure the
       availability of meaningful data for the ex-post evaluation consistent with the
       methodology used for the ex-ante evaluation.

    ·  Performance Agreements became a very useful tool to consolidate a results-oriented
       culture. This was a powerful tool introduced by the Health Reform Program that has had
       a positive impact for managing decentralized health programs. One key feature was the
       use of a limited number of clearly defined indicators with realistic targets that helped to
       keep programs well-focused. Close monitoring using a consistent methodology enabled
       corrective actions to be taken in a timely manner. The use of revolving funds to manage
       the transfer of financial resources also proved a very useful tool.

    ·  It is crucial to address cultural barriers created by ethnic diversity to further
       improve health indicators in Bolivia. Cultural diversity remains the greatest challenge
       for improved maternal and child health of the poor in Bolivia. The program began to
       bridge the cultural barrier with the use of specially tailored activities, but they need to be
       developed in greater depth to accommodate cultural factors.            Coverage of prenatal
       controls and births attended by trained health personnel stagnated during the project
       period and cultural barriers has been mentioned as one of the critical factors to making
       further progress.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies



The Minister of Health submitted official comments on the draft ICR in a letter dated January 15,
2009 (Annex 7).

The Borrower expresses its agreement with the performance evaluation of the Project
and the lessons learned that have been incorporated into the design of the third phase of
the APL. It also suggests giving greater emphasis to what the Government and the World
Bank should do in the future to prioritize and strengthen the Health Information System
(SNIS).



(b) Co financiers


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                           millions)
COVERAGE AND QUALITY
IMPROVEMENTS OF THE SBS
                                              39.3            15.6              40%
AND EMPOWERMENT OF
COMMUNITIES
LOCAL CAPACITY TO
RESPOND TO HEALTH NEEDS                       27.9            25.1              90%
OF THE POPULATION
MONITORING OF
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
                                               3.1              7.1            229%
AND PROJECT
COORDINATION


             Total Baseline Cost              70.3             47.8             68%

Physical Contingencies
                                               0.0              0.0

Price Contingencies
                                               0.0              0.0
             Total Project Costs              70.3             47.8             68%
Front-end fee PPF                              0.0              0.0
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.0              0.0
     Total Financing Required                 70.3             47.8             68%




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of     Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                        Cofinancing    (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                      millions)     millions)
Borrower                                               35.3           7.82        22%
International Development
                                                       35.0          40.0         114%
Association (IDA)




2This includes US$140,000 provided by several donors.


                                                 19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

I. Coverage and quality improvements of the health services and empowerment
of communities.

I.A. Strengthening policy development, regulation and monitoring of the SBS/SUMI. The
Project was instrumental in implementing the SUMI. The development and launching of the
public insurance scheme (SBS/SUMI) has had a sustained impact on the role municipalities play
in the health sector as well as on public providers. In addition, the establishment of an explicit
package of services free-of-charge for the population increased the awareness of the public on
health issues and on their rights to access health services. This quickly translated into an
increased access to basic maternal and child health services. The status of key indicators that
measure results under this component are presented in the table below.

                Key Indicator                       Status                    Comments
Improved estimates of health indicators          Partially met  SNIS made some progress in gathering
available regularly                                             and processing data in a timely manner.
Financial audits of SBS/SUMI available            Not done      Only sporadic audits were undertaken
regularly                                         regularly     signaling severe problems in some
                                                                municipalities.
SBS/SUMI funds fully executed in 70% of              Met        For the period 2003-2006, funds
municipalities                                                  executed averaged between 85 and
                                                                90% for the 3 sources available
Priority innovations for SBS/SUMI designed           Met        Management schemes and payment
                                                                systems implemented
Publication of protocols for SBS/SUMI                Met        Protocols published and distributed
interventions
Percentage of districts and municipalities that  Information
carry out an Information Analysis Meeting        not available
each semester


Accreditation and licensing of primary               Met        94 hospitals evaluated ­ 34 accredited
providers implemented                                           1000 health centers evaluated ­ 310
                                                                accredited
Number of Pregnant Women's Bill of Rights        Information
signed                                           not available
Number of defense advocates trained              Information
                                                 not available



I.B. Strengthening National Health Programs for Mothers and Children

The Project also continued to strengthen the EPI, which was a key component as evidenced by
the fact that three out of the eight performance indicators were related to immunization.
Furthermore, it helped to improve the policy environment and effectiveness of Bolivia's national
immunization program by providing methodologies for evaluating a national program; develop
annual and five-year action plans, and monitoring of vaccination coverage rates. The financial
sustainability of the EPI was addressed in order to avoid backtracking in coverage rates in the
second phase of the program.

This sub-component also focused on improving the quality of services provided and on
contributing to address children malnutrition. Quality improvement was particularly directed at
three aspects: (i) reducing neonatal mortality in large hospitals, (ii) setting up a certification

                                                20

system for service providers, and (iii) setting up practices for managing medical waste.
Regarding neonatal mortality, technical norms and protocols were prepared and implemented in
the 15 largest hospitals with maternity services, reducing neonatal mortality by 35 percent.
During the period 2004-07, 94 hospitals (out of 214) and 1039 health centers (out of 2789) were
evaluated for certification. About 37% of the hospitals evaluated and 31% of primary care
centers were certified. At the same time, norms for evaluating and certifying health service
providers were published. Additionally, norms for waste management were updated and staff
was trained on their application. Also, six transfer stations for hospital waste were constructed.
The table below details the status of indicators defined al appraisal.

                  Key Indicator                      Status                    Comments
Share of suspect measles cases with adequate           Met        90% average for 2003-07
blood sample greater than 80%
AFP rate for younger than 5 years equal to         Information
1/100,000                                         not available
EPI's logistical software implemented in 80%         Not met      Most localities processing
of localities                                                     information manually
Multi-donor programs produced and                  Information
monitored for nutrition activities, IMCI and      not available
medical waste management
60% of community agents trained and                    Met        More that 60% of community agents
supervision activities carried out at midterm,                    were trained
including pathological residues and nutritional
practices



II. Local Capacity to respond to the health needs of the population.

II.A. Assignment of health teams to expand the coverage of the SBS/SUMI.

The Project helped to build capacity within the MSD by strengthening the project unit and
decentralized services in the regions. By the end of APL I, an attempt had been made to integrate
the project unit to the MSD placing it under the DGSS, with the expectation that it would lead to
better coordination among project staff and the MDS departments. However, the PCU continued
to be resisted in most quarters within the MSD and some activities, notably EXTENSA,
functioned to a great extent totally independent of the MSD mainstream and of the regional
networks of health services.

Fifty nine mobile brigades financed totally by the project and some other sixty five co-financed
with SEDES and municipalities were organized during the 2003-07 period. On average, over 200
municipalities were covered annually during the life of the project, reaching every year an
average of 340,000 people providing over 800,000 maternal and child controls annually. Some
efforts were made to adapt cultural issues to reach indigenous women by adapting medical
facilities and providing training to staff in nearly 200 rural centers. Additionally, over 1,300
small pharmacies were set up and managed by specially trained representative from the
communities served.




                                                 21

The status of indicators defined at appraisal is shown in the table below


                 Key Indicator                       Status                   Comments

Targeting completed                                    Met        EXTENSA was implemented in
                                                                  targeted municipalities
At least 80% of Technical Assistance requests      Information
for identified municipalities completed            not available
Investment needs for identified municipalities         Met        FPS completed all projects for
completed                                                         identified municipalities
100% of programmed municipalities provided         Information
with resources, training, support and              not available
monitored
Percentage of SEDES and districts included in      Information
EXTENSA that carry out an Information              not available
Analysis Meeting each semester greater than
80%



II.B. Investment sub-projects to expand the coverage of the SBS/SUMI.


Investment sub-projects were implemented by the FPS. Projects were selected through a
formula to allocate funds to municipalities using an existing assessment of unmet basic
needs at the municipal level. This formula was later revised (late 2004) and a new
scheme was implemented based on criteria of vulnerability. Municipalities were
classified in five categories and investments prioritized depending on the level of
vulnerability. A total of 376 projects, including rehabilitation and refurbishing of
medical facilities in the primary and secondary levels, were executed in 161
municipalities totaling an investment of US$10.1 million. Key indicators associated with
this sub-component are presented below.

                 Key Indicator                       Status                   Comments
Percentage of municipalities included in               45%        During 2003-07. Target was met
EXTENSA presenting projects to FPS greater
than 40%
Percentage of FPS subprojects completed            Information
within projected time greater than 50%             not available


    III.     Monitoring of Performance Indicators and Project Coordination.

This component included management of the project and one key role was managing the process
of signing of PAs with departmental SEDES and municipalities and monitoring its achievements.
This role was later moved to the formal structure of MDS. Key indicators associated with the
process of Pas are shown in the table below.

                 Key Indicator                       Status                   Comments
Percentage of SEDES that sign PAs with MSD             80%        2007
equal to 100%
Percentage of districts included in EXTENSA           100%        For 2003 through 2005
that sign PAs with SEDES equal to 100%                 78%        For 2006
                                                       55%        For 2007
At least 80% of SEDES with a PA show                Not met       On average, compliance rate during
compliance rate higher than 80%                                   2002-07 was slightly below 50%
At least 80% of districts with a PA show a         Information
compliance rate higher than 80%                    not available

                                                  22

 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

For the reasons mentioned in 3.3, no ex-post economic and financial analysis was
undertaken for this project




                                          23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
           Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Patricia Alvarez         Operations Officer                 LCSHE
Carlos Marcelo Bortman   Sr Public Health Spec.            LCSHH
Miriam Cespedes          Procurement Asst.                  LCSPT
Monica Claros            Program Assistant                 LCCBO
Maria Lucy Giraldo       Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT
Jose Pablo Gomez-Meza    Sr Economist (Health)             LCSHH
Lourdes Consuelo Linares Sr Financial Management Specialist LCSFM
Zulma Elizabeth Ortiz    Consultant                         CSEBL
Vladimir Pary            E T Consultant                     LCSAR
Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo  E T Consultant                     LCSSO
Victor Villegas          Consultant                         LCSHE
Jorge Villena            Consultant                        LCSHH



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                      13                         65.76
  FY02                                       4                         19.02
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00

                         Total:             17                         84.78
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                  0.00
  FY02                                       9                         46.10
  FY03                                      31                        100.25
  FY04                                      36                         85.21
  FY05                                      42                        115.60
  FY06                                      41                        111.10
  FY07                                      26                         72.49
  FY08                                      26                         96.60
  FY09                                                                  0.00

                         Total:            211                        627.35


                                         24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
No Beneficiary Survey was undertaken.




                                     25

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
No Stakeholder Workshops were undertaken.




                                    26

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   27

28

                                TRANSLATION INTO ENGLISH

MINISTER OF HEALTH

La Paz, 15 de enero de 2009
DESPACHO/124/2009



Mr. Javier Fernando Vargas
Vice-Minister of Public Investment and External Financing
Ministry of Planning and Development
La Paz, Bolivia



                 Ref. Bolivia Credit 3541-BO ­ Health Reform Project (APL II)
                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) - Borrower´s comments

Dear Sirs:

In response to your letter VIPFE/DGSIF/USIS/001492-2008 dated December 18, 2008, regarding
the Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Bank, I am pleased to inform you that the
document has been reviewed and analyzed by the pertinent authorities in the institution.

We express our agreement with the comments issued by the Bank in relation to the Project´s
performance and all aspects considered in the report during the design of the Third phase of the
Program (APL III), particularly with the Lessons Learned described in Chapter 6.

We would appreciate if the report could include a greater emphasis on the Government and the
World Bank´s efforts to strengthen the Health Information System (SNIS). The report mentions
some deficiencies in the data provided, and therefore, it is important to guarantee a system that
can serve as a tool for decision making in order to provide adequate control and monitoring.

                                         Very truly yours,

                                      Ramiro Tapia Sáenz
                                  Ministro de Salud y Deportes



cc ViceMinister of Health
DGAA




                                                29

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Non applicable




                                    30

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents
Aide Memoire, Mid-Term Review Mission, April 2005
Aide Memoires for the period February 2003-June 2008
Bolivia, Health Sector Reforms in the Context of Decentralization, June 2003
Bolivia, Interim Strategy Note, October 2006
Health, Nutrition and Population Strategy Note, April 2007
ICR, Health Sector Reform Project (APL I), June 2004
PAD, Health Sector Reform Project (Second Phase), June 2001
PAD, Expanding Access to Reduce Health Inequities ­ APL III, December 2007



Borrower Documents
UDAPE, Quinto Informe de Progreso de los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio en Bolivia,
Junio 2008
URS, Informe Evaluación Comportamiento Indicadores, Enero-Diciembre 2007, March 2008
URS, Informe Final Proyecto Reforma de Salud (APL II), Junio 2008
URS, Informe Financiero Final, Junio 2008




                                          31

                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 31131

                           68°                                66°                                      64°                                       62°                                60°                                         10°



10°       B R A Z I L
                                                   Abuná
                                                 R.                                                                                                       BOLIVIA
                                                               Guajará
                                                                Mirim
                                           Nacebe
                                                                Riberalta   R.                                                                                   MAIN ROADS
     Cobija                    PA N D O                                       Mamoré
                                                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                  Porvenir       Conquista
                                                                                                                                                                 DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                            12°

                                    Dios
12°                              de   Blanca Flor                                                                                                                SELECTED TOWNS
                                                                   Yata
                          Madre                                  R.                                       R.       Iténez                                        DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                        R.                                                                                                          o
                      Pto. Heath                                                                                                        Guaporé                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                    San Joaquín
                                             Beni
                                           R.            L. Rogaguado                                                  Magdalena
                   Madidi         Z                                    B      E       N         I                  R.
      PERU                                                                                                           Baures
                                                    L. Rogagua                               L. San                                                                                                                             14°
                                 A                                                    R.      Luís

14°             Ixiamas
                                                                                                         R.

                                P                                                                          Itonamas                                                                      B R A Z I L
                                            Rurrenabaque
                Apolo                                                                    Trinidad

                                                                                     Mamoré
   To
 Cuzco
                Charazani
                             A
   Lake      Puerto Acosta                                                                                                   R.

                              Caranavi                                                       Mamoré                            San                                                                                              16°
     Titicaca                                                                        are                                                                                                                            To
16°                         L                                                                                                     Miguel               Concepción          San
                        Huarina                                                            R.                                                                                                                    Brasília
                                                                                  Chap               Río                                                                Ignacio
                                 La Paz                                                         Yapacani
                                                                                                                               R.              San Javier                                        San Matías
     To                                      Paz                                 R.                                               Grande
 Matarani                           R.     La                          Pto. Villarroel                                                                                     San Rafael
              Guaqui          Viacha                                                         Yapac
                                                   Inquisivi   Villa Tunari                                                                                                                                                R.
                   R.                                                                                 ani                                              S    A     N         T A                                              Paraguay
             Corocoro                 Patacamaya          COCHABAMBA                                                                     Puerto Banegas

                         Desaguadero                             Cochabamba                                                                     Pozo Tigre
                                                                                    Epizana                        Montero
                                                                                                       Santa Cruz
            Charaña                                                                                                                                                                Ipias
                                        Oruro                                                             Mataral                                            San José                                       Sto. Corazón

18°                                                                                                                                                       C    R      U       Z          Roboré
                  Tambo                                                             Aiquile
                Quemado
                           O R U R O                                                                                               Abapó
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Puerto

                                        L. Poopo                       Sucre                                                    Cabezas                                                                        Quijarro
                                                                                             Tarabuco
                                   L. Coipasa                                                                                                                                                                           To
                Pisige
                                                              Potosí
                                                                                          Monteagudo
                                                                                           CHUQ                                                                                                              Mutún
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Santos


                                                         Río
                                                       Mulato

20°                                    Uyuni
                                     Salt Pan         Uyuni                                        UISA C A                                                                                                                     20°
                                                                                                                Camiri

                                                                                                                                    Boyuíbe

                                           P O T O S Í                                                                             F'tin Villazón                  P A R A G U A Y
                                                                              Cotagaita                                                             To Asunción
                                                                                                                                                  and Paranaguá
                                                          Atocha                                                           R.
                                                                                     El Puente
                                                                                                Tarija
                        To             Chiguana                                                                               Pilcomayo                                             60°
                 Antofagasta                                     Tupiza                                 T A R I J A
                                                                                Balcarce                  Yacuiba
                                                                                                Padcaya                                                  22°                        Rio           Porto Velho
                                                                                                                                                                                 Branco
22°                                                                                           R.                                                                                                    B    R    A   Z   I   L
                                                                                                                                                                   P E R U
                                                                                                Ber
                                                                       To Salta                                                                                Lima                                               Area
                                                                                                   mejo                    To
                                                                                                               Embarcación                                                    Cusco                              of map
                                                                                                                                                                  Ica
                                                                                                                                                                                             Trinidad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cuiaba
                                                                                                                                                                     Arequipa
           C H I L E                                                                                                                                                            La Paz   BOLIVIA
                                                                                 A R G E N T I N A                                                                                         Cochabamba
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                             Arica
                                                                                                                                                                                             Sucre
                                                                                                                                                                S o u t h                             PARAGUA
                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                          P a c i f i c
                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                              24°                   C H I L E
24°                                                                                                                                                            O c e a n
                                                      on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                        Y
                                                                                                                                                                         Antofagasta
          0  5 0   1 0 0     1 5 0    2 0 0   2 5 0   judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                       Asunción
                                                                                                                                                                                             San Miguel
                                                      acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                        de Tucuman
                  K I L O M E T E R S                                                                                                                                                              Resistencia

                           68°                                66°                                      64°                                       62°                                     A R G E N T I N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Porto Alegre
                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOVEMBER 2000

