Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13604-LE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 1, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North African Region



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(as of July 1994)
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound
US$1.00 = LL 1676.5
LL 1.00 = US$0.0005
LEBANESE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AUB       -  American University of Beirut
CDR       -  Council for Development and Reconstruction
CIF       -  Cost, Insurance and Freight
EPI       -  Expanded Program on Immunization
DPT       -  Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus
GOL       -  Government of Lebanon
HC        -  Health Centers
HMO       -  Health Maintenance Organization
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IEC       -  Information, Education and Communication
IS        -  International Shopping
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB       -  Limited International Bidding
NERP      -  National Emergency Reconstruction Program
NGO       -  Nongovernmental Organization
MSFA      -  Ministry of State for Financial Affairs
MOH       -  Ministry of Health
PCU       -  Project Coordination Unit
UNFPA   -  United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF  -  United Nations Children's Fund
WHO       -  World Health Organization



THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.  INTRODUCTION                   ...............................................                                                                   1
II.  THE  HEALTH   SECTOR    ......                                ................... ...1.............. 
A.  Background   ..............................................                                                                          1
Health and  Demographic  Conditions   ............................                                                            2
The Roles of the Public and  the Private Health  Sectors    ................                                                 4
Health  Sector Financing   ....................................                                                               7
B.  Main  Sector Issues  ..........................................                                                                      9
Role of the Government and  Institutional Capacity  of MOH                                .............                       9
Accessibility  of Essential Inpatient Services to  the Poor  ................                                               10
Range  and  Quality  of Outpatient Services  .........................                                                      10
Health  Care  Financing  .....................................                                                              11
C.  Rationale  for Bank  Involvement   .................................                                                                12
III.  THE  PROJECT                                  ................................................                                               12
A. Objectives and Design .......................................  12
B.  Project Description    .........................................                                                                    13
Part A:  Institutional Component   ..............................                                                           13
Essential Administrative  and  Managerial Functions of MOH    ...                                    .....      13
Planning  and  Normative  Functions in the Sector  ................                                             14
Health  Care  Financing  ................................                                                       15
Part B:  Improving  Health  Care  Delivery   .........................                                                      16
Public Health  Centers   ................................                                                       16
Private Health  Centers  ................................                                                       17
Frontline  Referral Hospitals    ............................                                                   18
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ......  19
A.  Project Costs   .............................................                                                                       19
B. Financing ...............................................  21
C.  Management and  Implementation  .................................    22
Management Structure  .....................................    22
Implementation  Schedule   ...................................                                                              23
Procurement  ...........................................                                                                    23
Disbursements  ..........................................                                                                   25
Accounts and  Audits   ......................................                                                               26
Sustainability ...........................................  26
Project Supervision, Monitoring  and  Evaluation   .....................                                                    28
D.  Environmental Considerations    ..................................                                                                 29
E.  Status of Project Preparation    ...................................                                                               29
V.  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS                              ............................................    30
A.  Project Benefits    ...........................................                                                                     30
B.  Project Risks   .............................................                                                                       30
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................  31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs./Mine. Albert Sales (mission leader), Sarosh Sattar
(economist), Evelyn Villatoro (architecht/implementation specialist) and Willem Van Lerberghe (public health specialist). Peer reviewers:
Guy Ellena (MNIPH), Robert Hecht (LAIHR), and Bassam  Ramadan (MN2TC).
- ii -



THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
ANNEXES
A Health and Demographic Conditions in Lebanon
B Letter of Health Sector Policy
C Organizational Structure of MOH
D  Part A: Establishment of Task Forces: Summary of Main Resources Required
E Current Situation at Health Centers To Be Rehabilitated under the Project
F Health Centers: Services and Facilities; Standard Package of Essential Public Health and Clinical
Services
G Frontline Referral Hospitals
H The Project Coordination Unit: Terms of Reference
I Project Implementation Schedule
J Procurement Schedule
K Technical Assistance, Training and Fellowships
L Estimated Disbursement Schedule
M Estimated Incremental Recurrent Costs Resulting from the Project
N Proposed Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Project Supervision Plan
0 List of Documents in the Project Files
TABLES
In Text
Table 2.1  Common Health and Demographic Indicators for Lebanon, Egypt, Syria and Jordan (1985-1990
Estimates)
Table 2.2  Number, Distribution and Utilization of Hospitals and Hospital Beds in Lebanon
Table 2.3  Estimate of the Relative Contribution of the Government, Donor Agencies and Individuals to the
Total Expenditure for Health
Table 2.4  Distribution of the MOH Recurrent Budget (1992) Among the Main Categories of Expenditure
Table 4.1  Project Cost Summary by Project Item
Table 4.2  Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure
Table 4.3  Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Table 4.4  Procurement Arrangements
Table 4.5  Estimated Disbursement Schedule (Summary)
In Annexes
Table A. 1 Common Health and Demographic Indicators for Lebanon, Egypt, Syria and Jordan
(1985-1990 Estimates)
Table A.2 Infectious Diseases Causing Death Among Children Ages 1 Month to 14 Years
Table D. 1 Part A: Establishment of Task Forces: Summary of the Main Resources Required
Table E. 1 Public Health Centers
Table E.2  Private Health Centers
Table F. 1 Model Physical Infrastructure at Health Centers
Table G. 1 Frontline Referral Hospitals (Existing Conditions)
Table G.2 Frontline Referral Hospitals (Proposed)
Table 1. 1 Project Implementation Schedule
Table J. 1 Procurement Schedule
- iii -



THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
TABLES
In Annexes
Table K. 1 Technical Assistance, Training and Fellowships
Table L. 1 Estimated Disbursement Schedule (in US$ million)
Table M. 1 Estimated Incremental Recurrent Costs Resulting from the Project (Billion LL)
Table M.2 Budgetary Impact of Project Incremental Cost on MOH Recurrent Expenditures (in LL billion
unless stated)
Table N. 1 Process Indicators
Table N.2 Output Indicators for Part A
Table N.3 Output Indicators for Part B
Table N.4 Project Evaluation: Impact Indicators
Table N.5 Tentative Supervision Plan and Expertise Required
FIGURES
Map: IBRD 26367
- iv-



THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data Sheet'
General Country Data                                                       Year
Area (thou.sq.km.)                               10.4                      1993
Total Population (mil.)                          3.85                      1993
Density (per sq.km.)                            370.2                      1993
Urban Population (% of total)                     85                       1983
Annual Population Growth Rate
Total                                         2.2                       1993
Urban                                         2.3                       1993
GDP per capita (US$)                             1,955                      1993
Real GDP Growth Rate (%)                         7.0                       1993
Real Per Capita GDP Growth Rate (%)              4.8                       1993
Health
Population per Physician                         537                       1991
Crude Birth Rate                                 27.9                      19922
Total Fertility Rate                             3.2                       1991
Crude Death Rate                                 7.8                       19922
Infant Mortality Rate                             40                       19922
Life Expectancy at Birth                          67                       19922
-v -
1/ All figures are World Bank estimates unless otherwise indicated.
2/ UN, World Population Prospects. The 1992 Revision.



THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEFINITIONS OF HEALTH AND POPULATION TERMS
Average Occupancy Rate     -      Number of hospital days/(number of beds x 365).
Average Length of Stay     -      Number of hospital days/number of admissions.
Contraceptive Prevalence   -      Percentage of married women of reproductive age using, or
whose husbands use, any modern form of contraceptive.
Crude Birth Rate           -      Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate           -      Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Infant Mortality Rate      -      Annual deaths of infants younger than 1 year old per 1,000
live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   -      The number of years a newborn child would live if subject to
the age-specific mortality rates prevailing at time of birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate    -      Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in a given
year attributable to pregnancy, childbirth, or postpartum
complications.
Rate of Natural Increase   -      The rate at which a population is increasing (or decreasing) in
a given year due to surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths
expressed as a percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population Growth    -    The rate at which a population is increasing (or decreasing) in
a given year due to natural increase and net migration,
expressed as a percentage of the base population.
Total Fertility Rate       -      The average number of children a woman will have if she
experiences a given set of age-specific fertility rates
throughout her lifetime. Serves as an estimate of the number
of children per family.
- vi -






LEBANESE REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:           Government of the Lebanese Republic
BENEFICIARY:          Ministry of Health
POVERTY:          Program of Targeted Interventions
LOAN AMOUNT:            US$35.7 million equivalent
TERMS:         Seventeen years, including a four year grace period, at the World Bank standard
variable interest rate.
FINANCING
PLAN:
US$million
Local       Foreign        Total
Government         12.42           -          12.42
IBRD               12.29        23.41         35.70
Total              24.71        23.41         48.12
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN:          Not Applicable
STAFF
APPRAISAL
REPORT:         13604-LE
MAP:        IBRD 26367
- vii -






THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Lebanon, a prosperous, upper middle-income country in the mid-1970s, has been devastated
by 17 years of civil strife and military occupation. From 1950-1975, Lebanon's market economy
expanded by about 6 percent a year. This growth was largely driven by the services sector,
especially trade, tourism, and finance, which attracted business from surrounding oil-based
economies. After the eruption of the civil war in 1975, the economy deteriorated significantly with
intermittent recovery during the two periods of relative calm, 1978-1981 and 1986-1988. In spite of
resumption of economic activity following the cessation of internal fighting, the per capita income in
1993 (US$1,955) was still only about one half of the 1975 level in real terms.
1.2    The civil war also considerably weakened the Government's institutional capacities. Due to
continued political instability, public services were virtually nonexistent for 17 years. Consequently,
public administration now suffers from a lack of qualified manpower, including managerial staff.
Most social services are provided by nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and the private sector;
the overall role of the Government is small. Major reforms are essential to reconstruct the
institutional capacities of social sector ministries.
1.3    The Government envisages a phased strategy for rebuilding Lebanon's ravaged economy and
addressing social problems, consisting of a short-term emergency reconstruction phase followed by a
medium-term recovery phase. The National Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP) provides
for urgent investments, which will be made concurrently with the identification and implementation of
longer-term development strategies in the various sectors.
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Background
2.1    Lebanon's health sector is characterized by three important features. First, the country is
undergoing a demographic and epidemiological transition which requires a re-orientation of its health
system. Fertility and infant mortality rates are declining, life expectancy is increasing and
noncommunicable diseases are becoming more prevalent than infectious diseases. Second, the
Government's role in health progressively declined during the two decades of civil war. The private
sector and numerous NGOs (many of them politically affiliated) provide extensive clinical services,
but public health activities and overall health sector management have been largely ignored. The
most visible effect of the lack of sectoral planning is the rapid cost escalation of health services
associated with inequities in health coverage. Third, poor population groups are marginalized and do
not have full access to health services, in particular basic hospital care. These problems are more
severe in underserved areas of the country.



Health and Demographic Conditions
2.2     Lebanon's population is estimated at 3.8 million (1993) with an additional 300,000 Palestinian
and Iraqi refugees and a large, yet indeterminate, number of Syrian workers. About 85 percent of the
population lives in urban areas, reflecting the sharp drop in the rural population as people migrated to
the main urban centers during the war. The population growth rate is estimated at 2.2 percent per
year and the total fertility rate of 3.2 is among the lowest in the region.
2.3     The size and characteristics of various demographic groups are difficult to determine due to
significant population movements during the war, large-scale emigration (including an estimated
200,000 Lebanese), and the presence of refugees and guest workers. An accurate profile of
Lebanon's population is also limited due to the paucity of data. The last census in Lebanon was
carried out during the French Mandate in 1932. The most recent major demographic survey, a 1970
manpower survey, used a sample population. The Govermnent is currently considering plans to
initiate a census as well as an extensive household survey in the next few years.
2.4     Health Status. Limited data suggest that Lebanon's health and demographic indicators are
comparable to those of middle income countries in general and superior to several other Middle
Eastern countries (see Table 2. 1). The health status of the population appears to be average for a
lower middle income country. However, a detailed assessment requires more reliable data not only
on health conditions but also on determinants of ill-health such as income levels, education,
availability of water supply, and sanitation. Lebanon is participating in the Arab Health Survey,
which will significantly improve knowledge of health conditions.
Table 2.1: Common Health and Demographic Indicators for Lebanon,
Egypt, Syria and Jordan (1985-1990 Estimates)3
Country      Crude Birth Rate  | Crude Death Rate    Rate of Natural  Infant Mortality    Life Expectancy at
Increase           Rate             Birth
Lebanon               28               7.8               2.0               40                67
Egypt                35                10.8              2.4               65                59
Syria                 44               7.0               3.7               48                65
Jordan               39                6.4               3.3               44                66
Middle Income         29               8.0               N/A               48                66
Countries /a
Source: UN, World Population Prospects. The 1992 Revision.
a/ Source: World Development Report.
3/ The national averages shown for Lebanon in Table 2.1 conceal important geographical disparities. For instance,
the Bekaa and the Northern regions, with only 25 percent of the country's children, account for 60 percent of under-
five mortality, a pattern similar to that found in studies conducted before the war. The slums of Beirut and Tripoli,
along with the rural areas in the Akkar and Hermel regions, appear to be significantly worse than other parts of the
country. There is evidence that health conditions among the displaced population are relatively worse than the
national average.
-2 -



2.5    There is evidence that Lebanon is undergoing an epidemiological transition. With the
emergence of chronic and degenerative diseases, communicable diseases no longer dominate the
health profile of the population. This transition has implications for the type and mix of health
services needed. Preventive and public health activities have to evolve to respond to new patterns of
diseases and will need to be complemented by more complex clinical services including essential
inpatient care.
2.6    Health conditions in the country are summarized below. A more detailed discussion is
presented in Annex A.
(a) Infectious diseases continue to be an important cause of mortality and morbidity, although
good progress in controlling them has been made in the past few years. Respiratory
infections, meningitis and gastroenteritis are still the main causes of mortality among
children. The incidence of poliomyelitis, pertussis, diphtheria, and tetanus has been
reduced through vaccination but, with only 40 percent of one-year-old children
immunized, measles remains an important cause of child mortality. In all age groups,
tuberculosis seems to be more prevalent than before the outbreak of fighting in 1975.4
About 170 cases of HIV infection have been reported since the first case of AIDS was
diagnosed in the country in 1985/1986. However, many physicians refuse to report the
disease, and the actual number of cases is thought to be much higher.
(b) Parasitic diseases have been brought under control. Schistosomiasis has been eradicated
from agricultural areas of the South, and malaria, a former problem in the North, has
disappeared.
(c) Protein-caloric malnutrition is reported to be rare and restricted to groups, such as
refugees, living in particularly difficult situations. With the exception of micronutrient
deficiencies (iron, iodine, vitamin A), nutritional deficiencies are rare.
(d) Chronic and degenerative diseases are becoming increasingly prevalent, not only in large
cities (where their diagnosis is facilitated by the availability of numerous specialists and
sophisticated diagnostic equipment), but also in rural areas. Diabetes (a possible cause of
kidney failure) and cardiovascular diseases seem to be particularly prevalent.
(e) Health problems related to social instability, including violent crimes and suicides, have
recently gained in importance. There is also a gradual escalation in traffic accidents.
Domestic accidents, including poisoning (especially by drugs and kerosene), are
responsible for a substantial proportion of deaths among children below fifteen years of
age. The number of handicapped individuals in Lebanon (100,000 to 200,000) is
significant.
4/ Many interconnected factors known to be associated with the spread of the disease seem to have been at work:
social and economic consequences of the war; overcrowding and deterioration of living conditions due to extensive
population movement and displacement; lack of proper diagnosis, treatment and follow-up procedures.
- 3 -



(f) A high incidence of mental retardation among children has been reported.'
Consanguineous marriages are still common in Lebanon (26 percent of marriages
according to a 1986 study), which may explain the high incidence of genetic diseases.
The Roles of the Public and Private Health Sectors
2.7    The providers of health services in Lebanon are private practitioners and hospitals, local and
international NGOs, and the Government. Health services are financed by insurance companies,
users, the Government and, to a lesser degree, NGOs. Other players in the health sector include
professional associations (e.g., private hospitals and physicians unions), university faculties, and
scientific societies. Health sector development has been largely unregulated since 1975 because of the
Government's limited presence in service delivery, lack of resources, and weak institutional capacity
during and in the aftermath of the war.
2.8    Policies. The Ministry of Health (MOH) prepared a "National Strategy for Health" in
December 1993, the first attempt since the end of the war to define government policies in the sector.
The document reinforces the Government's commitment to the principles of equity, affordability,
effectiveness, and universality in the provision of health services. Particular emphasis is given to
(i) balancing resource allocations between curative and preventive care; (ii) making hospital
management more efficient; and (iii) strengthening MOH's regulatory role to improve the quality of
services and control costs. This strategic document has been summarized in a letter of Sectoral
Policy, as part of the preparation of the proposed project (see Annex B).
2.9    The long-term strategy of the Government is to broaden its role in the planning, regulation,
and coordination of major players while limiting its role in service delivery. By increasing its
strategic functions, the Government can encourage the development of health facilities and services
that increase delivery of effective services to the population, protect consumer welfare, restrain cost
escalation, coordinate the activities of stakeholders, and ensure the realization of its long-term
objectives of universality in the provision of services within the country's economic resources. The
Govermment's role in service delivery will remain limited, primarily to provision of essential services
to the poor through frontline hospitals and health centers in underserved areas.
2.10   Sector Administration. The MOH has primary responsibility for the administration of the
health sector. This includes policy formulation and planning as well as monitoring of public and
private services and programs at the national and local levels. The Minister of Health is assisted by a
Director General who is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Ministry. With only three
directorates (for prevention, health care, and laboratories) and a small planning unit which reports
directly to the Director General, the organizational structure of MOH is still rudimentary (see
organizational structure in Annex C). There is an acute shortage of qualified personnel and many of
the Ministry's key managerial positions are vacant. Management and administrative procedures are
inadequate, including those related to critical activities such as budgeting and accounting, as well as
office technology. All accounting and routine typing, for example, are done manually.
5/ Several studies underscored the extremely detrimental impact of the war on the psychological development of
Lebanese children: more than half of the children residing in Beirut were suffering from psychosomatic illness; one
child in every ten families exhibited behavioral problems; 70 percent of the mothers reported an increase in anxious
and aggressive behaviors in their children 3-9 years old.
-4 -



2.11   Outpatient Care and Public Health Services. Health facilities are not formally classified and
the referral system is not well defined. For the purposes of this report, three levels of service
delivery will be considered: the "primary" level refers to outpatient services; the "secondary" level
refers to general inpatient services (e.g., appendectomies and caesareans); and the "tertiary" level
refers to specialized hospital services such as cancer treatment, open heart surgery or diagnostic
methods such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).
2.12   The primary health care network, composed of private practitioners, NGO-operated outpatient
facilities and public health centers, provides affordable services to the majority of the population,
including the poor. Though private practitioners are numerous, little information is available on their
number and qualifications, particularly since there was a large influx of medical doctors from Eastern
Europe after the war ended. Registration and licensing of physicians will be one of the functions of a
strengthened MOH.
2.13   There are about 760 outpatient facilities dispersed throughout the country, ranging from small
dispensaries to large health centers. These facilities do not receive hospital support since a referral
system is absent between the primary and secondary levels of the health care system. About 80
percent of outpatient facilities are administered by NGOs and the remaining 20 percent by MOH and
other government agencies (e.g., the Ministry of Social Affairs, the military, and local
municipalities).  Nongovernmental organizations make extensive use of private practitioners who
work a few hours per week in a dispensary or health center.
2.14   Preventive programs carried out during the past few years were initiated and financed by
international agencies. The Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI), which was launched in 1987
with assistance from WHO, UNICEF, and several NGOs, provides nationwide coverage to 80 percent
of children under one year of age for poliomyelitis, diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis. There is no
adequate program for the control of major communicable diseases such as tuberculosis and sexually
transmitted diseases.
2.15   Family planning services are mostly provided by the private sector. A study conducted by the
American University of Beirut (AUB) in 1984 indicated that 60 percent of women between the ages of
15 and 40 were using contraception. Even in rural areas, contraceptive prevalence is at least 30
percent. Data on the types of contraceptives used is currently unavailable.
2.16   Hospital Care. Hospital services are provided primarily by the private sector, although MOH
plays a modest but important role. The total number of beds available in Lebanon are about 11,700
of which the private sector's share is 94 percent. The private hospital system provides about 7,400
acute beds (e.g., for short stays) and 3,600 long-term beds. The public hospital system provides
mainly acute beds or about 10 percent of all beds in this category.
2.17   The private hospital sector in Lebanon is two-tiered, with a few large hospitals and many
smaller hospitals. About one third of all private beds are in less than two dozen large hospitals, while
the remaining beds are distributed among small, inefficient hospitals. Most chronic (long-term) beds
are in small rather than large private hospitals.
2.18   The private sector, though large, does not provide adequate secondary-level services to the
poor since large private hospitals have no incentives to do so. They concentrate on high technology,
high quality, and highly profitable specialized care. The provision of essential and relatively low cost
- 5-



secondary services imposes a significant opportunity cost on this type of facility. In addition, large
private hospitals are concentrated in the Beirut area and are not accessible to the poor who live
outside the capital.
2.19    A number of small and medium-size private hospitals provide secondary care under
contractual arrangements with MOH. However, the quality of services provided is often substandard
because of cost cutting measures to maximize profits. In addition, many private hospitals in rural
areas are too small to be efficient (under 50 beds) and cannot afford to maintain adequate staff in
either number or qualifications, nor can they afford the investment cost of necessary equipment.
Table 2.2: Number, Distribution and Utilization of Hospitals and
Hospital Beds in Lebanon6
Hospitals                           Hospital Beds
(number of beds per 1,000 population)
Region         Population     Priv. gen.   Priv. spec.    Govt.   Priv. Acute  Priv. Long Stay  Govt.
Beirut            900,000         28            5          1        2,554                         1
(2.8)
Mount             635,000        41             9          8        2,566                       116
Lebanon                                                             (4.0)                      (0.2)
North             580 000         18            -          5         966     information not    130
(1.7)      available      (0.2)
South             500,000         14            -          6        1,052                       280
(2.1)                     (0.6)
Bekaa             268,000         20            1          5         235                        170
(0.9)                     (0.6)
Total            2,883,000       121           15         25        7,373         3,587         696
(2.6)        (1.2)         (0.2)
I/ Tbc only public hospital in Beirut is no longer in opcrauon.
2.20    The MOH owns a network of 25 hospitals. However, the performance of public sector
hospitals was hampered during the war by the lack of resources and the absence of operational
support from MOH. As a result, only a dozen of the 25 hospitals have succeeded in staying open and
functional by relying on community support. These hospitals (some 700 beds in total) provide
general inpatient services, primarily to the poor.  In contrast to private hospitals, these hospitals have
managed to keep costs under control thanks to utilization of low-cost technologies and provision of
services which respond to the needs of underserved communities. Table 2.2 summarizes the number
of public and private hospitals and hospital beds by region.
2.21    Health Manpower. All main categories of health manpower are available in Lebanon,
although certain categories of nurses have been reported to be in short supply in some areas (e.g., the
greater Beirut area). The quality of health manpower education and training provided at Lebanese
universities and schools is generally good. However, physicians are oriented towards curative care
and the majority of them are specialists. This, in addition to the large number of physicians, tends to
increase the cost of services. Nurses are quickly drawn to the Gulf countries and Europe, where
remuneration and working conditions are better. Consequently, Lebanon draws on South and
6/ Data from MOH and the Association of Private Hospitals, consolidated by World Bank Staff.
- 6 -



Southeast Asia for many of its nurses. The situation is more favorable with respect to other
categories of paramedical personnel such as laboratory technicians.
2.22   Despite the low civil service salary scale, qualified personnel continue to be attracted to
working in public facilities, although most doctors supplement their income by establishing private
practices or working in private hospitals. Physicians work in public facilities, despite the opportunity
cost of their time because of the security of government employment, non-wage benefits (such as
health insurance), the desire to do public service, the opportunity to establish themselves, and/or
recruit clients for private practice.
2.23   Medical supplies. The management of medical supplies needs much improvement. There is a
large variety of brand name drugs on the market as well as illegally imported pharmaceuticals.
Quality control by MOH is nonexistent. Unlicensed pharmacies are prevalent and unsanctioned sales
of drugs by prescribers are common. An effort has been launched by MOH, in collaboration with
WHO, UNICEF, and NGOs, to improve the availability of essential drugs and develop a national
essential drug policy.
Health Sector Financing
2.24   Health services in Lebanon are financed by insurance companies, MOH, NGOs, local
communities, donors, and users. An estimated 44 percent of the population is uninsured, while the
rest are covered by one of four insurance schemes. The lack of coverage is a major problem for
people who require inpatient care since private care is expensive and public services are limited. In
principle, uninsured patients can be treated in private facilities and their medical expenses be
reimbursed by MOH. In practice, poor patients have difficulty in accessing private hospital services
(they are put on long waiting lists) and, when they receive care, they have to provide significant co-
payments (which act as a strong disincentive).
2.25   Health costs in Lebanon are escalating at a rate greater than inflation. This problem, though
common to many middle income countries, is difficult to address. The problem is particularly severe
with regard to hospitals due to the prevalence of high-technology equipment, specialists, and high-
quality support services. In addition, weak insurance companies and a weak MOH, which are unable
to carefully monitor either health services consumption by beneficiaries or payments to providers,
exacerbate the sector's structural problems.
2.26   There are four medical insurance schemes:
(a) National Social Security Fund which covers private sector employees (28 percent of the
population);
(b) Civil Servants' Cooperative which covers civil servants (9 percent of the population);
(c) Army and Internal Security Forces, separate schemes which cover 11 percent of the
population; and
(d) Private insurance companies (about 90) providing basic coverage to 8 percent of the
population.
-7 -



2.27    Total expenditure on health services was estimated at approximately US$301 million
(US$78.2 per capita), or 5.4 percent of GDP in 1992, the latest year for which data are available.
Total Government expenditure on health was estimated at about 1.7 percent of GDP (US$24.4 per
capita). Table 2.3 provides an estimate of the relative contribution of the Government, donor
agencies and individuals to total health spending.
Table 2.3: Estimate of the Relative Contribution of the Govermnent, Donor
Agencies and Individuals to the Total Expenditure for Health
Percent of Total           Percent of GDP              US$/Capita
Health Expenditures
Public Expenditures'                        31.3                        1.7                      24.4
Donors                                       7.6                        0.4                        6.0
Private Expenditures                        61.1                        3.3                      47.8
I/ Public expendiwures on health are mainly financed by the Government, either directly (e g., for civil servants. government employees, the army, the police, and the population not
covered by health insurance), or indirectly (e.g., 25 percent of the National Social Security Fund expenditures on health services.)
2.28    In 1992, the MOH  budget was US$45.1 million or 5.4 percent of the total government
recurrent budget. A large share of this budget is used to finance private hospital services -- mainly
sophisticated tertiary care -- for the population not covered by health insurance. Table 2.4 provides
the distribution of the MOH recurrent budget (1992) among the main categories of expenditure.
2.29    MOH's budgeting and accounting procedures need substantial improvement.  There is no
financial accountability for the use of resources. Financial data are lacking, including for the
monitoring of funds used to reimburse private services delivered to uninsured patients. As a result,
duplication, inequity, oversupply, false billing, and disregard of tariffs are comnmon.
Table 2.4: Distribution of the MOH Recurrent Budget (1992) Among the Main
Categories of Expenditure
|Budgetary Item                                Amount (US$/Mil.)           |     Percent of Total Received Budget
Wages and Salaries'                                  6.5                                    14.4
Purchase of Medical Services from the               34.5                                    76.6
Private Sector
Drugs and Vaccines                                    1.9                                    4.3
Others2                                              2.1                                     4.7
1/ Mainly of the MOH administrative staff, since wages and salaries of the public hospital staff are negligible,
2/ Maintenance of physical facilities, preventive and primary health services, etc.
- 8-



2.30   Lebanon has a strong tradition of user-fees for health services. Not only the private sector,
but also public facilities -- health centers and hospitals -- as well as NGOs have user-charges. The
practice of public facilities collecting user-fees began during the war when the Government was
unable to provide sufficient resources for operating expenses. As a result, public hospitals and health
centers independently decided to charge patients for services in order to continue operating. Though
full cost recovery from their low-income beneficiaries was not possible nor desirable, user fees
reduced overconsumption of services and provided valuable financial resources to these facilities
allowing them to continue to operate and serve the poor and uninsured.
2.31   A tariff scheme is the financing arrangement which dominates the private sector. Insurance
companies and hospitals enter into a contractual agreement on tariffs for each service provided.
Insurance companies cover the majority of the cost, however, patient copayment is required which
helps in controlling, though not eliminating, overconsumption of health services in the private sector.
2.32   The main external agencies involved in the health sector are UNICEF and WHO. In 1992,
these agencies spent about US$2.5 million on health programs. The Islamic Development Bank and
some bilateral donor agencies (e.g., the governments of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, France, and Italy)
have recently shown interest in financing specific projects. UNDP estimates that total development
assistance to Lebanon for health was US$15 million in 1992.
B. Main Sector Issues
2.33   Among the difficulties affecting the health sector, four main issues need to be addressed
rapidly:
(a) the role of the Government in the health sector has to be redefined and the institutional
capacity of MOH has to be strengthened to fulfill this role;
(b) the poor have inadequate access to hospital services, including basic inpatient care;
(c) primary health care services focus on curative care and pay insufficient attention to
preventive activities and public health programs; and
(d) health sector financing arrangements result in escalation of costs due to structural
problems (e.g., the prevalence of technology-intensive equipment), misallocation of
resources, and social inequities.
Role of the Government and Institutional Capacity of MOH
2.34   In order to achieve the long term goals defined in the 1993 strategy paper (see paragraph
2.8), a coherent institutional framework for both public and private activities in the sector has to be
established. At present, MOH is unable to discharge its responsibilities properly due to institutional
weaknesses and the Government's difficulty in enforcing regulations. Immediate priorities are in the
area of policy development, sector planning, and sector regulation. Most stakeholders, including
professional organizations, medical faculties, private hospital groups, and health financing agencies,
acknowledge that MOH needs to play a role which would fill these gaps. In contrast, MOH's role as
a direct provider of health services should remain limited.
-9-



2.35   Given the limited role played by MOH for the past two decades, restoring the Ministry's
institutional and operational effectiveness will require sustained national effort and external support.
Moreover, several problems in the sector (such as the low civil service salary scale) are cross-sectoral
and will be addressed as part of the country assistance strategy. In the short term, priority should be
given to quickly establishing an effective ministry so that management and administrative functions
critical to sector development can be performed. In the medium term, a reassessment of the sector
situation, including the institutional capacity of MOH, should occur, which may result in the
identification of new concerns.
Accessibility of Essential Inpatient Services to the Poor
2.36   Since the Government was unable to maintain or repair public hospitals during the war, it
referred uninsured patients to selected private hospitals which performed services under a contractual
agreement with MOH. Although most MOH recurrent expenditure for nonsalary items has been used
to reimburse private hospitals (about 80 percent of the MOH budget), there is widespread evidence
that the poor have insufficient access to services. The situation is particularly worrying with regard
to essential inpatient services (i.e., secondary care).
2.37   There are several reasons for the failure of this arrangement to provide sufficient access to the
poor. First, outside Beirut, private hospital services are limited to a few cities and there are poor,
underserved areas where the population (mostly low-income, uninsured people) have to rely on public
services. Second, private hospitals give priority to insured patients (or affluent patients who pay for
services) and uninsured patients have difficulty in accessing services (they are subject to long waiting
lists and significant copayments). Third, where the poor have access to private services, hospitals
tend to overcharge MOH for two reasons: first, because many private facilities are over equipped to
deliver tertiary and carry high overheads which increase the unit costs of all services (including
secondary care) delivered at these facilities; and second, because MOH is not able to control bills
submitted by private hospitals and establish a reimbursement schedule by type of intervention.
2.38   A limited number of public hospitals delivering high quality secondary care would be an
effective complement to private facilities. Access to private facilities will remain limited as long as
the profitability for these facilities of serving the affluent or insured is greater than that of serving
uninsured patients referred to them by MOH. Upgrading existing government hospitals is therefore a
cost-effective means of providing essential inpatient services to the poor, particularly in underserved
areas.
Range and Quality of Outpatient Services
2.39   There is an extensive network of health centers and other outpatient services (including
private practitioners) throughout the country and all groups of the population have easy access to
primary health care services. Though coverage is not a concern, the effectiveness of services needs
to be improved by re-orienting them towards preventive care and raising quality. However, both
public and private service providers focus primarily on curative and individual care. Highly cost-
effective public health interventions, such as tuberculosis control, have been ignored in Lebanon until
recently. Weaknesses in centrally organized programs, such as national disease control camnpaigns,
worsen the situation. In addition, the quality of primary health care services varies considerably from
one provider to another. In certain areas, service delivery is below standard because of the poor
condition of buildings and equipment and the shortage of qualified personnel and medical supplies.
- 10 -



The Government has to ensure that a core list of public health and basic clinical services of good
quality are made available to the majority of the population.
Health Care Financing
2.40   During 1990-1993, from 74 to 80 percent of MOH's recurrent budget was allocated to the
reimbursement of services provided by the private sector to uninsured patients. About 15 percent of
the health budget is allocated to salaries, indicating that less than ten percent of MOH recurrent
expenditures have been allocated to public health programs, operation and maintenance of public
hospitals and health centers, and other activities (e.g., pharmaceutical supplies). This leaves public
health facilities to depend on their cost recovery system to cover non-salary operating costs. While
the principle of purchasing private sector services to compensate for current weaknesses in the public
sector is usually sound policy, the current expenditure practices in Lebanon have serious drawbacks.
2.41   First, the current financing system creates incentives that favor an excessive use of hospital
services. MOH subsidization of private sector services covers all hospital services, even for
interventions that could be provided on an outpatient basis. Second, it encourages private hospitals
contracted by MOH to use high cost interventions when lower cost treatments would also be
appropriate, because administrative controls are nonexistent. Third, MOH spending on high
technology secondary and tertiary services reduces the amount of resources for public health programs
and interventions that are more cost-effective (e.g., immunization and other and preventive activities)
as well as on the day-to-day operation of public facilities.'
2.42   The largest organized health financing group, the insurance companies, face organizational,
management, and financial problems and need to increase their efficiency. Until recently, the
National Social Security Fund ran a deficit, which is unusual given Lebanon's young population
profile. Greater efficiency will improve the financial sustainability of insurance companies.
However, to ensure their long-term viability, health costs must be contained. Greater cooperation,
and perhaps even consolidation, among insurance companies is needed to strengthen their bargaining
power against providers. This would encourage private hospitals to deliver less expensive services.
2.43   The Government and the insurance sector will need to identify the causes of medical cost
escalation. Initially, this would require better information on hospital costs, utilization rates, provider
practices, and the effects of incentives for insurance arrangements on providers and consumers. It
would also require more effective primary curative care and prevention to avoid high financial costs
associated with the increasing prevalence of noncommunicable diseases. In the longer term, a
complete reform of health care financing may be required. To prepare such reform, new scenarios
and alternative sources for health care financing (e.g., the establishment of Health Maintenance
Organizations -- HMOs) should be explored.
7/ In 1993, 11 percent (LL 10 billion) of MOH resources for health service financing was allocated to kidney
dialysis (fewer than 1,000 patients); 17 percent (LL 15 billion) was allocated to open heart surgery (for 1,200
interventions); while 23 percent (LL 20 billion) was allocated to cancer treatment. There are six MRIs in the
country, 25 centers for kidney dialysis and five centers for open-heart surgery (with two additional ones to be opened
soon).
- 11 -



C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.44   A healthy population is both an end and a means to economic growth. Development
constitutes not only increases in income, but also improvement in the quality of life and life
expectancy. Improved health will also contribute to economic growth through gains in worker
productivity, reduced cost of medical care, and improved well-being for the poor.
2.45   The Government, weakened by more than a decade of social and political instability, needs
external support to play a significant role in developing the sector. International agencies, such as
WHO and UNICEF, that have maintained health programs throughout the war, have limited resources
and can meet only part of the needs for external assistance. The few other donor agencies that have
recently shown an interest in the sector limit their assistance to specific investments (e.g., medical
equipment), with minimal attention being given to institutional strengthening and operational
considerations (including recurrent costs implications). The Bank can assist the Government in
restoring its role in the health sector, correcting weaknesses in services and programs, and making
better use of the existing external assistance.
2.46   The proposed project would constitute the first step towards a long-term effort by the Bank to
improve the health sector. Many of the issues discussed above (e.g., health sector financing) would
take time to be overcome. The limited capacity of MOH to absorb development projects makes it
also necessary to keep this first project as simple as possible. Moreover, other donor agencies
(WHO, UNICEF) are already providing adequate assistance in several areas (e.g., health manpower
development and management of medical supplies).
2.47   The Bank approved the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) in
March 1993, designed to finance high priority components of the Government's National Emergency
Reconstruction Program (NERP). The proposed Health Sector Rehabilitation Project will support the
health sector component of the program; it will assist the Government in the institutional development
of MOH, as well as in the rehabilitation of selected public hospitals and health centers, and will be in
line with the Bank's assistance strategy in Lebanon, which focuses on: (i) helping to rebuild and
strengthen a public administration that would focus on establishing an enabling environment for
private sector activity; (ii) rehabilitating selected physical infrastructure in close coordination with
private sector initiatives; and (iii) addressing social needs and environmental concerns.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Design
3.1    The long-term objective of the project is to improve the country's health conditions through
better allocation and use of resources in the public and private sectors. The short- to medium-term
objectives are: (i) to enable MOH to effectively perform management and administrative functions
that are critical to further development in the sector; and (ii) to respond to unmet health needs of poor
population groups who rely on public services, particularly selected health centers and general
hospitals. The project is fully consistent with the national health policy, as expressed in a letter of
- 12 -



Sectoral Policy which was prepared by MOH and Bank staff and agreed upon during loan negotiations
(Annex B).
3.2    The key elements of the sectoral policy are: (i) improving primary health care through the
introduction of a comprehensive package of curative and preventive services to be delivered by all
public health facilities and participating NGOs; (ii) improving secondary care in the public sector by
strengthening hospital management and service delivery capability; (iii) improving health financing by
initiating system-wide studies of alternative health financing options, including proposals for a gradual
reallocation of the health budget to better reflect health priorities as stated in Government policy; and
(iv) establishing MOH's capability to implement these strategies. The Government and the Bank will
review annually progress achieved by the Government in implementing its health sector reform
policies as outlined in the Letter.
3.3    The project will follow a two-pronged approach: Part A will assist the Government in
developing and implementing its sector strategy by supporting the establishment of regulatory,
planning, and coordination capabilities in MOH. Part B will support the rehabilitation of selected
health facilities, with particular attention to improving the availability of essential public health and
clinical services to underserved population groups.
B. Project Description
Part A: Institutional Component
3.4    This component will have three objectives: (i) restore essential administrative and managerial
functions of MOH; (ii) re-establish planning and normative functions in the sector; and (iii) prepare
and initiate a reform plan for health care financing. Several task forces will be established within
MOH to achieve these objectives. Each task force will be composed of: (a) existing MOH staff; (b)
additional staff who will be recruited specifically for the project and will be gradually incorporated in
MOH's regular staffing structure; (c) local and international consultants; and (d) an advisory group
consisting of individuals or institutions such as NGOs, universities and professional associations that
have a particular expertise or play a key role in the area concerned.
3.5    The project will provide the technical assistance, training, equipment and furniture, vehicles,
and the additional staff and operational support necessary to establish and operate the task forces. A
summary of the resources provided under Part A of the project to establish the task forces is in Annex
D. Under Part A of the project, technical assistance, office equipment and vehicles will also be
provided to establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within MOH (see Annex D and Chapter IV,
Implementation Arrangements). The principal elements of this component are summarized below.
Essential Administrative and Managerial Functions of MOH
3.6    The project will assist MOH's staff in:
(a) reviewing the administrative structure and procedures of MOH. An audit of MOH
managerial practices and administrative procedures will be carried out, paying particular
attention to budgeting and accounting, personnel management, and management of
supplies and equipment. On this basis, new systems to monitor and control the allocation
- 13 -



and utilization of resources in the sector will be introduced. Under the project, the
organizational structure of MOH will also be improved and a plan will be prepared to
recruit and redeploy the Ministry's personnel accordingly.
(b) developing and establishing a national health information system. The project will
complement ongoing and planned efforts to improve health information in the country8 by
developing and establishing two major components of a national health information
system, namely: (i) an information system for public hospitals at the levels of service
providers (e.g., standardized records for patients), hospital administration (e.g., data on
utilization and coverage), and central MOH (e.g., information on resource availability,
infrastructure, etc.); and (ii) a sentinel network to monitor changes in health conditions
and health status of the population, to be developed in collaboration with the Association
of Epidemiologists.
(c) strengthening the management of health centers. Based on the standard package of
essential public health and clinical services, the project will: (i) prepare technical
guidelines for health personnel working at health centers and implement an in-service
training program; and (ii) develop and implement a system to monitor the delivery of
services at the 30 health centers -- public and NGO-operated -- to be rehabilitated under
the project (see Part B).
(d) strengthening the management of public hospitals. The project will: (i) develop
managerial tools for public hospitals in three areas: budgeting and accounting, preventive
maintenance and repair of equipment, and management of medical supplies; and (ii)
establish a hospital management training capacity within MOH, in collaboration with the
Public Health Faculty of the Lebanese University.9
Planning and Normative Functions in the Sector
3.7    The project will assist MOH's staff in:
(a) establishing a "carte sanitaire" of the country. The carte sanitaire will cover both the
public and the private sectors. It will consist of an inventory of the health infrastructure,
equipment and human resources'", and a data base on the volume and range of health care
8/ A system to improve health information at health centers is currently being developed with WHO assistance, in
collaboration with the American University of Beirut (AUB). The system is expected to be completed by the end of
1995. Other forthcoming activities in the area of health information include: the "Pap-Child" survey on health and
demographic conditions (financed by UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, AGFUND and the Arab League), several surveys
on specific health conditions such as tuberculosis, a "Demographic and Habitat Study" based on aerial photography
(financed by UNFPA), and the preparation of a "carte sanitaire" under the project (see below).
9/ The current agreement between MOH and The Lebanese University concerning the development of a Masters
degree in public health will be broaden to include a training course in hospital management.
10/ The assessment of the health manpower situation in the country will take into account the work currently being
carried out by WHO (for nursing and midwifery staff) as well as the existing data base of professional organizations
(e.g., records of the medical association on medical doctors, pharmacists and dentists).
- 14 -



services provided and on the performance of the various health care providers (e.g.,
utilization and coverage of individual facilities).
(b) planning for further development of health services. The project will: (i) review the type
and number of facilities needed to cover the majority of the Lebanese population, their
distribution per Mohafazat (province) and Casa (department), and the health care
providers; (ii) prepare alternative scenarios for effectively delivering essential public
health and clinical services, nationwide, (taking into account the carte sanitaire,
government policies in the sector, resource constraints, and the relative contribution of the
various service providers); and (iii) prepare a plan on the future development of health
services in the country. The health services development plan will constitute a tool for
planning and regulating the rehabilitation and expansion of government health facilities
and services, taking into account the carte sanitaire (see above) and the availability of
operation resources.
3.8    During Loan Negotiations, the Government agreed that MOH would submit to the Bank for
comments, a health services development plan, and endorse the plan, by June 30, 1997.
Health Care Financing
3.9    The project will assist MOH's staff in:
(a) containing costs of MOH expenditure for private services. To complement the project
activities aimed at improving MOH's budgeting and accounting system (see above), the
project will: (i) complete the establishment of a standardized and computerized patient
admission and billing system at private hospitals under contract with MOH "; (ii) analyze
the costs and pricing of services purchased by MOH from the private sector and identify
major sources of expenditure; and (iii) establish treatment profiles and a consistent tariff
system for a substantial part of these services.
(b) preparing reform in health sectorfinancing. The project will undertake five studies to
prepare a plan of reform in health care financing: (i) a review and evaluation of the
allocation of MOH expenditures and the effect of MOH's spending pattern on equity,
cost-effectiveness and other current distortions in health care delivery; (ii) a review of
existing cost recovery mechanisms at public hospitals and health centers; (iii) a national
household survey on the consumption of health care to assess private expenditure for
health, the providers of services and sources of financing and beneficiaries; (iv) a
feasibility study of the establishment of HMOs, using various service providers'2;
1I/ A standardized and computerized system is currently being established for the greater Beirut area with the
assistance of WHO (subcontract with a private institution specialized in health care management). The project will
assist in expanding the system to the periphery.
12/ Three hospitals are expected to be included in the study: (i) the Makasset Hospital (an NGO-operated facility
located in the Beirut area), (ii) the Ain Zein Hospital (located in an area of Mount Lebanon where community
insurance already exists), and (iii) a university-type of hospital (yet to be determined).
- 15 -



and (v) a review of the alternative scenarios for health care financing. During loan
negotiations, the Government agreed that MOH would submit to the Bank a detailed
plan for the implementation of the recommendations of the five studies on health sector
financing reformn which will be carried out under the project, by December 31, 1997.
3.10   Implementation of the recommendations of the five studies, as well as of MOH's work
program to reform health care financing, will be monitored by an intersectoral committee composed
on representatives of MOH (including the task force established under the project), other government
agencies involved in financing health services (e.g., the Ministry of Social Affairs), the Ministry of
Finance, the main health insurance schemes, the existing HMOs, and the main providers of private
services. During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that MOH would establish, by
December 31, 1997, an inter-sector committee to monitor implementation of the recommendations
made by the five studies, consisting of representatives of MOH, the other ministries involved in the
provision and financing of health services, the Ministry of Finance, the main health insurance
companies (public and private), the existing HMOs, and the main providers of health care.
Part B: Improving Health Care Delivery
3.11   While Part A will strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health, including the
management and operation of services, Part B will support the rehabilitation of selected primary
health care facilities (10 public health centers and 20 health centers operated by NGOs) and 6 public
general hospitals. All project facilities already exist and remained operational throughout the war.
There will be no expansion of the current health care delivery system.
Public Health Centers
3.12   The 10 public health centers included in the project have been selected for their location in
underserved areas and large population coverage, their good performance (such as number of
consultations), the availability of sufficient staff, and the existence of the minimum building
accommodations required to perform the full range of essential health services. Although the centers
are adequately staffed, the range and quality of services has been seriously affected by the poor
condition of buildings and lack of equipment. Of the 10 centers, 3 are small rural hospitals that
would be converted into outpatient facilities. A summary of the current situation at the selected
centers is provided in Annex E.
3.13   A standard package of essential public health and clinical services was developed during
project preparation and will be delivered at each center. The package includes the diagnosis and
treatment (and referral, when necessary) of common communicable and noncommunicable diseases,
minor surgical procedures, dental services, the provision of essential drugs, common diagnostic
services such as x-ray, laboratory services and EKG, preventive services including immunization,
family planning and health education (See details in Annex F).
3.14   The project will provide the necessary civil works, equipment and furniture, vehicles, training
and medical supplies to bring the 10 centers up to a national standard. The scope of rehabilitation has
been determined on the basis of agreed norms, taking into account existing conditions and criteria,
such as the size and characteristics of the population living in the catchment area (Annex F).
- 16 -



3.15   Improvement in the quality of services at the 10 health centers will be monitored by MOH
(under Part A of the project) and will also benefit from other donors' programs (e.g., WHO and
UNICEF assistance in the area of management of medical supplies and health manpower training). In
particular, the task force on the management of health centers will use these centers to test ways of
improving operations and quality of service delivery (including financial management and cost
recovery), improve and update periodically the standard package of essential services, and develop
guidelines for health center personnel and implement a corresponding training program.
Private Health Centers
3.16   During the war, NGOs established a large number of outpatient facilities throughout the
country to compensate for the deterioration of public facilities. This private network continues to
play a major role in the delivery of primary health care. It includes a number of health centers that
provide quality services and are well managed. A common weakness, however, is the emphasis on
individual and curative care, with minimum attention being placed on cost-effective interventions.
Moreover, financial support from the international community has been much reduced during the past
few years and many of the NGOs concerned are now relying exclusively on their own cost recovery
mechanisms. Hence, they are finding it increasingly difficult to provide preventive and other services
of public health interest (e.g., treatment of tuberculosis) and are seeking assistance from MOH.
3.17   The MOH has recognized the need for collaboration between government and private health
center networks and has recently approved a model contractual agreement with some of the main
NGOs involved in the sector'3. The agreement provides for the delivery by the concerned NGOs,
under MOH monitoring, of the full range of essential public health and clinical services developed for
public health centers (see above). In exchange, MOH will provide the NGOs with additional
equipment for public health activities (e.g., tuberculosis control), in-service training, and operational
support (e.g., supply of essential drugs).
3.18   The project will provide the additional equipment, training and operational support needed to
implement MOH/NGO contractual agreements on a pilot basis in 20 health centers run by leading
NGOs. The centers have been selected on the basis of well-defined criteria that include
complementarily with the public network of health centers with regard to population coverage,
satisfactory performance, adequate staffing, buildings, cost recovery mechanisms and, to a lesser
extent, equipment. Criteria regarding satisfactory management and nationwide representation have
also been applied to the NGOs concerned. The MOH will carry out a detailed evaluation of its
contractual agreements with the selected NGOs, within three years after the date of loan effectiveness.
The evaluation will concern all centers (20) included under the project and cover both quantitative
(i.e., number of services provided) and qualitative aspects such as the delivery of the full package of
essential services, the availability of qualified staff and medical supplies, and the use of adequate cost
recovery mechanisms. A summary of the current situation at the 20 centers is included in Annex E.
3.19   During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that MOH would carry out and furnish to
the Bank for review and comments, an evaluation of the quality and quantity of the essential
13/ An individual contract based on the model would be prepared for each of the 20 health centers included in the
project.
- 17 -



services provided at the 20 health centers operated by NGOs under contractual agreements with
MOH, by June 30, 1997.
Frontline Referral Hospitals
3.20   As discussed in Chapter 2, support for a limited network of public hospitals is needed to
ensure the provision of low-cost essential services to the poor and uninsured. The existing hospital
system, which is largely dominated by the private sector, provides a combination of general and
specialized services primarily to the insured and affluent. The private sector is unwilling to deliver
additional essential services using low-cost ancillary/support services (including diagnostic and hotel)
due to the greater profitability and demand by insured patients for specialized services. In contrast, a
certain number of public hospitals are already serving the uninsured poor and these patients would
benefit from increases in quality and quantity of care in these facilities.
3.21   The project will rehabilitate physical facilities at six of the main public hospitals'4. The six
hospitals have been selected for their importance as referral facilities, the need for rehabilitation, and
the complementarily with other donors' programs. They all maintained their operations during the
period of civil unrest (often relying on local support committees) and are adequately staffed.
However, as is the case for public health centers, the quality and range of services delivered have
significantly diminished with the progressive deterioration of buildings and equipment. A summary of
the current situation at the six hospitals is provided in Annex G.
3.22   The six hospitals have been operating on a semi-autonomous basis for approximately 10
years, instituting user charges which are affordable and which have successfully allowed them to
overcome the problem of low salaries paid under the civil service wage scale. Consequently, staffing
is sufficient in both number and quality. With the exception of the Baalbeck hospital, the level of
utilization of the selected hospitals (average bed occupancy rate: 44 percent) indicates that demand
for their services already exists and would increase if the quality of care were to improve. All six
hospitals play a key role as frontline referral facilities for both public and private outpatient services.
3.23   The project will provide the necessary civil works, equipment and furniture, vehicles, and
technical assistance to rehabilitate the buildings and equipment at the six hospitals. Detailed surveys
were carried out at each hospital to assess the need for rehabilitation, taking into account the current
situation, the agreed set of services to be provided after rehabilitation (the medical program), and the
existence of alternative providers of similar hospital services in the catchment area. A standard list of
equipment for medium-size hospitals has been developed and agreed on with MOH.
14/ These are: the provincial hospitals of Tripoli and Zahle, and the Casa hospitals of Baalbeck, Batroun, Dahr el
Bashek and Sour.
- 18 -



IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Costs
4.1      Summary of Project Costs.  Project costs are estimated at LL80,602 million (US$48.1 million
equivalent) and include construction, site development and professional services for the rehabilitation
and upgrading of existing facilities (30 health centers and 6 referral hospitals); provision of furniture,
equipment and vehicles, and technical assistance consisting of specialists services and training.
Recurrent costs include: additional contract personnel required to perform the tasks identified to
strengthen the Ministry as well as the maintenance of physical facilities and equipment. Foreign
exchange represents LL39,207 million (US$23.4 million) or 49 percent of total project cost. Local
currency costs are estimated at LL41,395 million (US$24.7 million). The summary of project costs
by project item  is shown on Table 4.1.  The summary of project costs by category of expenditure is
given in Table 4.2.
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary by Project Item
(LL '000)                         (USS '000)             %       %
Foreign   Total
Local        Foreign       Total        Local   Foreign    Total    Exch.   Base
Costs
|A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF MOH
1. Essential Administrative and Managerial Functions 
Administratve Struct. & Procedures                 1,311,090      231,251      1,542,340     783       138      921       15       2
Health Informiation System                        3,386,515       633,485     4,020,000    2,022       378    2,400       16       6 |
Health Centers Management                         1,384,304       129,561      1,513,865     826        77      904        9       2 |
Hospital Management                                1,401,389      419,671      1,821,060      837      251    1,087       23       3
2. Planning and Normative Functions in the Sector
Establish a 'carte sanitaire' of the country       1,155,499      296,726      1,452,225     690       177      867       20       2
Planning further development of health services    1,019,573      266,828      1,286,400     609       159      768       21       2
3. Health Care Financin2
Health Care Cost Containment of MOH               2,302,120       355,368      2,657,488    1,374      212    1,586        5       4
Health Care Financing Reform                      3,453,180       533,052      3,986,232    2,062      318    2,380        8       6
4. Establishment of the Proiect Coordination Unit
Setting of the Project Coord. Unit               1,622,807       509,803     2,132,610      969       304    1,273       24       3
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening of MOH       17,036,475     3,375,745    20,412,220   10,171    2,015   12,186        17      31
B. IMPROVE DELIVERY OF PUBLIC HEALTH &
CLINICAL SERVICES
1. Referral Hospitals Rehabilitation               11,755,380    21,853,051    33,608,431    7,018   13,047   20,065        65      52
2. Health Centers Rehabilitation
Public Health Centers                             1,939,684     4,284,114     6,223,798    1,158    2,558    3,716        69      10
Private Health Centers                            1,249,550     3,658,200     4,907,750      746    2,184    2,930       75        8
Subtotal Health Centers Rehabilitation             3,189,234     7,942,314    11,131,548    1,904    4,742    6,646        71      17
Subtotal Improve Deliv. of Public Health & Clinical  14,944,614    29,795,365    44,739,979    8,922   17,788   26,710     67      69
Services
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                31,981,089    33,171,110    65,152,199   19,093   19,804   38,897        51     100
Physical Contingencies                            2,303,994     3,151,788     5,455,782    1,376    1,882    3,257        58       8
Price Contingencies                               7,109,916     2,884,454     9,994,370    4,245    1,722    5,967        29      15
[TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                 41,394,999    39,207,352    80,602,351   24,713   23,407   48,121       49      124
- 19 -



Table 4.2: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure
(LL '000)                         (US$ '000)                %         %
Foreign    Total
Local      Foreign      Total        Local    Foreign      Total     Exch.      Base
Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS
Building Construction          6,279,378    7,674,796   13,954,174     3,749     4,582      8,331         55        21
Arch/Eng Design Fees          1,206,142                1,206,142       720                   720                   2
Subtotal Civil Works          7,485,521    7,674,796   15,160,316     4,469      4,582      9,051        51        23
B. EQUIPMENT
Medical Equipment                          12,836,028   12,836,028               7,663      7,663        100        20
Other Equipment                 366,825    1,492,425    1,859,250       219        891      1,110         80         3
Subtotal Equipment              366,825   14,328,453   14,695,278       219       8,554     8,733         98        23
C. FURNITURE                      2,015,779     671,926    2,687,705      1,203       401       1,605        25         4
D.VEHICLES                                     3,065,250    3,065,250                1,830      1,830       100         5
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Local Consultants              3,782,150                3,782,150      2,258                2,258                    6
International Consultants      1,100,475    2,567,775    3,668,250      657       1,533     2,190         70         6
Subtotal Technical Assistance  4,882,625    2,567,775    7,450,400     2,915      1,533     4,448         34        11
F. TRAINING
Local Training                 3,767,075                3,767,075      2,249                2,249                    6
Fellowships                      82,075      738,675      820,750        49        441        490         90         1
Seminars                        226,125                   226,125        135                  135
Subtotal Training              4,075,275     738,675    4,813,950      2,433       441      2,874         15         7
G. SUPPLIES
Medical Supplies                351,750    3,165,750    3,517,500       210       1,890     2,100         90         5
Other Supplies                   26,800        6,700       33,500        16          4         20         20
Subtotal Supplies               378,550    3,172,450    3,551,000       226 14894            2,120        89         5
TOTAL  INVESTMENT COSTS          19,204,574   32,219,324   51,423,889    11,465     19,235     30,701        63        79
II. Recurrent Costs 
M       A. BUILDING MAINTENANCE   544,392      233,311        777,703     325        139        464         30         1
B. EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
Medical Eq. Maintenance         436,304      654,456    1,090,760                  391        651         60         2
Other Equipment Maintenance       241,602     60,401      302,003       144         36        180         20
Subtotal Equipment Maintenance  677,906      714,857    1,392,763       405        427        832         51         2
C. INCREMENTAL PERSONNEL
Middle Management/ Med. Staff   8,924,400               8,924,400      5,328                5,328                   14
D. SUPPLIES
Non- Medical Supplies            98,222        3,618      101,840        59          2         61          4
E. OFFICE OPERATION              2,213,345                2,213,345      1,321                1,321                    3
F. EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL           318,250                   318,250       190                   190
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS            12,776,515     951,785   13,728,300      7,628       568      8,196          7        21
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS             31,981,089   33,171,110   65,152,199    19,093     19,804    38,897         51       100
Physical Contingencies        2,303,994    3,151,788    5,455,782      1,376     1,882      3,257        58          8
Price Contingencies            8,109,916    2,884,454    9,994,370    4,245       1,722     5,967         29        15
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              41,394,999   39,207,352   80,602,351    24,713     23,407    48,121         49       124
- 20 -



4.2    Basis of Cost Estimates. Cost of construction for rehabilitating and upgrading existing
facilities is based on reviews of recently awarded contracts for similar facilities and on mission
estimates of the work involved to bring these buildings up to acceptable standards. These costs
average US$400 per sq.m. Cost estimates for equipment are based on unit prices for similar
equipment recently procured and on standard price lists provided by MOH. Furniture costs are based
on current furniture price lists and amount to 18 percent of construction. Technical assistance costs
of US$22,000 per staff-month of specialist services and US$700 per staff-month of training have been
estimated on the basis of recent prices for comparable services. Base cost estimates reflect prices as
projected at the time of negotiations.
4.3    Custom Duties and Taxes. Project costs include an estimated US$1.5 million in indirect taxes
on locally procured civil works and goods. Equipment and goods imported directly for use by
government ministries are exempt from duties and taxes.
4.4    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance of 8 percent of the
estimated cost of all project items for unforeseen physical additions (approximately US$3.3 million).
Price contingencies are estimated at US$6.0 million equivalent or 15 percent of base cost plus
physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent 24 percent of the base cost.
4.5    Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component will include:
(i) construction and rehabilitation of existing facilities - 55 percent; (ii) furniture - 25 percent; (iii)
equipment - 100 percent; (iv) vehicles - 100 percent; (v) specialist services - 70 percent. These
percentages have been determined by estimating the indirect foreign exchange of construction and
furniture, assuming that all equipment will be imported. Including contingencies, the resulting
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$23.4 million, or about 49 percent of total costs.
4.6    Recurrent Costs. The recurrent costs to be generated by the project itself would consist of
LL1 1.6 billion (US$6.9 million) for salaries for contract staff, LL3.4 billion (US$2.0 million) for rent
and office supplies, and LL2.8 billion (US$1.8 million) for maintenance of building and equipment,
all estimated to cost approximately LL17.8 billion (US$10.7 million) over the six-year life of the
project or LL8.4 billion (US$3.8 million) per year after project completion (Annex L). During loan
negotiations, the Government agreed that MOH would allocate the necessary recurrent budget, on
an annual basis, for all operation and maintenance of project facilities and will submit to the Bank
for its review and comments, details on these allocations, no later than April 15, each year until the
completion of the project.
B. Financing
4.7    The proposed Bank loan of US$35.7 million will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange
component of the project (US$23.4 million) and 45 percent of local costs (US$11.0 million.). The
project will finance local costs in the amount of US$11.0 million to help the Government fund
technical assistance and other institutional development activities, as well as part of the incremental
costs generated by the project (on a declining basis). The Government will finance the balance of the
local costs. Project financing will be in accordance with Table 4.3.
- 21 -



Table 4.3: Financing Plan by Disbursement Category (US$ '000)
The World Bank       The Government of Lebanon  A       Total
|Amount  T       %     |Amount  |         %      |Amount  |         %
Civil Works                      8,848           79        2,325          21        11,173        23
Medical Equipment                9,189          100           0            0         9,189          19
Other Equipment                  1,212           89          151          11         1,363          3
Fumiture                          1,308          61         833           39         2,141          5
Vehicles                         2,154          100           0            0         2,154          5
Technical Assistance Local       1,963          70          841           30         2,805
Technical Assistance Internat'l.  2,506         100           0            0         2,506          5
Training                         2,231          64         1,298          37         3,529          7
Medical Supplies                 2,565          100           0            0         2,565          5
Incremental Operating Costs      3,724          35         6,972          65        10,696         22
TOTAL                       |   35,700           74       12,421   |      26        48,121   |     100
C. Management and Implementation
Management Structure
4.8     The MOH will be the executing agency for the project and will be responsible for the
coordination and monitoring of all project activities. The procurement of all goods and services
under the project will be handled by the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR), on
behalf of MOH (see below).
4.9     Within MOH, the General Director of Health will have the overall responsibility for the
project. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established to coordinate and monitor all
activities under the project, in close collaboration with the concerned divisions of MOH and with
other government agencies involved, including CDR. The PCU is headed by a Project Coordinator
who will be responsible for the day to day implementation of the project, under the general
supervision of the General Director of Health, and will be staffed with an accountant, a project
architect/engineer, a procurement specialist and the necessary support staff. All staff of the PCU,
including the Project Coordinator, will be full time local consultants, recruited for the duration of the
project. The terms of reference of the PCU are provided in Annex H. During loan negotiations, the
Government agreed that MOH would maintain the PCUfor the duration of the project, with
staffing, functions and authority agreed on with the Bank.
4.10    The CDR has extensive experience in procurement and is familiar with Bank procedures. It
has been acting since 1993 as procurement agent for MOH with regard to most of MOH's externally-
financed development programs. To ensure close collaboration between MOH and CDR, a Joint
Committee MOH/CDR was established in January 1994 and has met regularly since then. This
committee will review progress made in procuring goods and services under the project, as it has
been doing for other externally-financed projects. The Committee will meet as often as considered
- 22 -



necessary, but at least twice a month. During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that it
would retain for the duration of the project the Joint Committee MOH/CDR, with functions and
authority agreed on with the Bank.
Implementation Schedule
4.11   The project is expected to be implemented over a period of six years, starting in February
1995. The Project Implementation Schedule is provided in Annex I.
Procurement
4.12   As mentioned above, CDR will act as procurement agent for MOH. However, as executing
agency, MOH will be responsible for all technical aspects of the procurement of goods and services
(e.g., technical specifications to be included in the bid documents and in bid evaluation). All civil
works and goods to be financed from loan proceeds will be procured in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1992). Local manufacturers
competing for contracts for the supply of goods procured under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures will be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the existing customs duty, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports. Goods and equipment to be financed by the
Bank, estimated to cost US$100,000 or more per package, will be procured by ICB, using bidding
documents based on the Bank's standard bidding documents amended to comply with project
requirements. The amounts and methods of procurement are shown on Table 4.4. The procurement
schedule for the project is shown in Annex J.
4.13   The exceptions to ICB are:
Local Competitive Bidding: For civil works estimated to cost US$1.0 million or less per
contract up to US$4.5 million in aggregate, procurement will be through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, since the contracts will be small, in remote
provinces, widely scattered geographically and unlikely to attract foreign firms. For LCB,
the Borrower will use the bidding documents based on the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Small Works. For procurement under LCB for civil works, foreign bidders
will be allowed to participate.
International Shopping: International shopping, with at least three quotations from three
eligible countries, will be used for contracts for goods and equipment estimated to cost less
than US$200,000 up to an aggregate of US$2.3 million.
Local Shopping: Bid packages for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.7 million and containing small quantities of a great variety of off-
the-shelf items may be awarded under Local Shopping procedures based on comparing prices
from at least three suppliers.
Technical Assistance: Contracts for technical assistance will be awarded following
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency." Consulting and training services in the amount of US$5.3 million and
US$3.5 million, respectively, will be obtained mostly through consulting organizations
- 23 -



associated with the project or through specialized UN agencies, such as WHO. Consultant
appointments above US$100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals would be subject to
prior Bank review, as would the terms of reference, single source contracts and critical
assignments, regardless of value. There are several local consultants with the required
experience and background; their participation in project assignments is expected to be high.
A summary of the technical assistance, training and fellowships provided under the project is
in Annex K. Duiing loan negotiations, the Government agreed that MOH would
incorporate in its regular budget the additional staff positions provided under the project to
strengthen the ministry, in accordance with a schedule agreed on between the Borrower and
the Bank.
4.14     During project supervision, Bank-financed contracts for civil works above a threshold of
US$0.6 million will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures. The review process will cover
about 80 percent of the total value of civil works contracts. Contracts or packages for goods above
US$75,000 will also be subject to prior review, covering about 70 percent of the total value of Bank-
financed goods. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be carried
out on about 1 in 4 contracts for civil works and 1 in 8 contracts for goods.
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements (US$ '000)'
l j~     TICB          LCB              Other      J      Total
Civil Works                                   6,704             4,469                             11,173
(5,309)          (3,539)                            (8,848)
Goods
|Medical Equipmeiit'                          7,342                              1,8389,8
(7,342)                            (1,838)          (9,180)
[  Other Equipment'                          855                                 517            1,72
(760)                              (451)          (1,212)
|Furnliture,                                 1,713                                428            2,141
(1,046)                              (262)          (1,308)
Vehicles                                    2,154                                               2,154
(2,154)                                             (2,154)
Medical Supplies                           2,031                                 508 
(2,031)                              (508)          (2,539)
Other Suppiies'                                                                   26               2
(26)            (26)
Technical Assistance'                                                             5,3f1            5,311
(4,469)         (4,469)
raining'                                                                        359                529
(2,240)         (2,240)
incremental Operating Costs'                                                     10,696          10,
(3,724)         (3,724)
tOTAL                                       20,799             4,469           (22,853           48,121
IF _____________________________            (18,642)          (3,539)          (13,519)         (35,700)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Wortd Bank
2/ Local shopping (USS0 517 million)
31 Intemational shopping (US$1 84 million) for specialized medical equipment
41 Local shopping (USS428 million) for off-the-shelf items
5/ Local shopping for off-the-shelf items
6/ Procurement of consultants' services for technical assistance and training will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines
7/ Building and equipment maintenance through local shopping (US$1.8 million); Salaries for contract staff and office operation (US$8.9 million)
B/lntemational shopping (US$S51 million) for specialized medical supplies
- 24 -



Disbursements
4.15   The proposed Bank loan, in the amount of US$35.3 million, will be disbursed over a period
of six years. Disbursements will be made against:
(a) 80 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80 percent of locally produced items for equipment, vehicles and supplies;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for specialists
services and training;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures for furniture; and
(e) 35 percent of total expenditure for contract staff salaries (to be recruited for MOH), office
operations (rent and supplies) and maintenance of project buildings and equipment,
between 1995 and 2000. These expenditures will be disbursed on a declining basis (90
percent to December 31, 1996; 60 percent from January 1, 1997 to December 31, 1997;
and 30 percent from January 1, 1998 to December 31, 1998).
4.16   Disbursements from the proposed loan are expected to take place on an average of about four
months after expenditures are incurred. The project closing date will be December 31, 2000. The
schedule of estimated disbursement is shown in Table 4.5. Details are provided in Annex L. The
Project Implementation Schedules are indicated in Annex L, from which the Estimated Disbursement
Schedule has been derived.
Table 4.5: Estimated Disbursement Schedule (Summary)
Fiscal Year  1   1995   |   1996     1997   |   1998   I   1999   |  2000   |  2001
Annual             1.6        4.8        8.6        8.2         7.1        3.6        1.8
Cumulative         1.6        6.4        15.0       23.2       30.3       33.9   1   35.7
Percentage         0          18         42         65          85         95        100
4.17   Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding US$75,000 equivalent will
be made against complete documentation. Disbursement against contracts below that level will be
made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), for which documentation will be kept with
CDR and made available for examination by Bank supervision missions.
4.18   The CDR will be responsible for the disbursement of funds, the preparation of withdrawal
applications and the collection of documents. The Disbursement Handbook, which is binding for
World Bank loans, provides additional information on the procedures and should be read in
conjunction with this section.
- 25 -



Accounts and Audits
4.19   To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in US$ at the Central
Bank of Lebanon. The authorized allocation to the special account will be US$1.5 million. The
Special Account will be replenished monthly. All payments of less than US$100,000 will be made
through the Special Account. Withdrawal applications will be supported by appropriate
documentation. During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that it would establish and
maintain a special account for the project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.20   Both CDR and the PCU will maintain separate accounts for the project and will prepare, at
the end of each semester, a progress report including a detailed statement reflecting project
expenditures during the period and the project expenditures for the following semester. Project
accounts, including the Special Account, will be audited in accordance with the March 1982 Bank
"Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank." The
Bank will be provided, within six months of the end of each fiscal year of the Government, with an
audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion
by the auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of expenses. During loan negotiations,
the Government agreed that it would provide the Bank, within six months of the end of each fiscal
year of the Government, with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against a certified statement
of expenditures.
Sustainability
4.21    Project sustainability will largely depend on: (i) Government ownership; (ii) demand from
stakeholders, including beneficiaries; (iii) domestic institutional capability to operate and manage the
output; (iv) financial affordability; and (v) advancing sectoral development towards a more efficient
and effective system. All of these determinants are either present or are being developed by the
project.
4.22   Ownership. The Government recognizes the importance of human development for economic
growth and the need to invest in human capital to meet the requirements of a market economy. It
also recognizes that continued social stability depends on better access to core social services,
including health, for all segments of the population and especially for the poor. In this light, the
project serves two purposes. It is a major and highly visible government initiative to improve social
services. It is also the first phase in the restoration of an effective and efficient health care delivery
system which draws on complementarities between public and private mechanisms.
4.23   Demand. Most players in the sector, such as professional associations, medical schools,
private hospital groups and health insurance companies, realize the pressing need for the Government
to play a stronger role in sector planning and regulation and will support the capacity building
component of the proposed project.
4.24   The survival of certain public hospitals after almost two decades of civil war demonstrates
that demand is high for clinical services which will be strengthened under the investment component
of the project. There is ample evidence that beneficiaries of curative services, either at the health
center or hospital level, are willing and able to contribute (within the limits of each individual's
- 26 -



means) to operating costs of these facilities in spite of difficult country circumstances. Demand is
expected to increase with improvement in the quality of care. Preventive services are usually less in
demand because their benefits are intangible and deferred to the future. However, it is expected that
health education programs of the type supported by this project will make the population more aware
of the benefits of these services.
4.25   Managerial Capability. The project will establish management practices which will allow for
adequate operation and maintenance of facilities. These include expansion of MOH's staff to enable it
to perform essential functions to improve financial management and resource allocation, and repair
and maintenance of buildings and equipment. Improvements in these areas will ensure greater
availability of resources for hospitals and health centers and continuing viability of equipment.
4.26   Financial affordability. The project's incremental recurrent cost projections are presented in
Annex M. Assuming that MOH recurrent expenditures could remain at 4.9 percent of the
Government's operating budget (excluding debt servicing), MOH's budget would have to increase by
4.6 percent to cover the project's incremental recurrent costs and would then represent 5.1 percent of
government spending. Such an increase should be easily met given the importance accorded by the
Government to the health sector.
4.27   Total personnel costs would increase to 11.2 percent of the MOH budget from 8.9 percent in
1994 because of the recruitment of additional personnel for MOH and certain health facilities. The
share of personnel costs is low in Lebanon compared to other developing countries, where it typically
accounts for approximately 60 percent of total health spending. Incremental recurrent maintenance
costs at the end of the project would be under 1 percent of total MOH spending.
4.28   The investment component's incremental recurrent costs are primarily a result of upgrading
equipment and introducing better technology, increasing utilization (e.g., bed occupancy rate and
number of outpatients) due to improved quality of services, and improving the range of services
delivered. Incremental costs related to hospital personnel will be modest (less than 1 percent of total
MOH costs) because investments are aimed at improving existing facilities rather than expanding the
system and because all project facilities are already well staffed. Costs associated with repair and
maintenance of hospital buildings and equipment, which represent an increase of 0.6 percent over the
1994 budget, have been agreed on with the Government and included in the project (see para. 4.6).
4.29   Present cost recovery mechanisms have been sufficient to cover the cost of supplies and
should continue to meet this need adequately, without a substantial increase in MOH support.
Hospital administrators have already demonstrated their ability to target the destitute in the
communities they serve and the poor will not be adversely affected by maintaining cost-recovery
systems.
4.30   In addition to the present system of user charges at public hospitals, a number of measures to
be instituted under the project are expected to contribute to covering nonpersonnel recurrent costs in
rehabilitated hospitals. These include cost control measures in public hospitals, regularized billing
procedures to eliminate overpayment to private hospitals, and establishment of standardized treatment
profiles and tariffs for most major sources of MOH payments to private facilities. Finally, as the
rehabilitation of public hospitals proceeds, the need for MOH to refer uninsured patients to private
hospitals will be reduced and MOH's expenditure on private delivery will decline correspondingly.
- 27 -



4.31   System development. The probability of a project's sustainability is increased if it furthers
sectoral development towards greater efficiency and effectiveness, e.g., increases the Government's
ability to do "more with less". The health sector in Lebanon is faced with significant problems, many
of them structural, which cannot be solved quickly or easily. One of the major structural problems is
that the private sector has undertaken expensive investments in high-technology equipment and human
capital. Thus, for the Government to sustain reform, it must initiate dialogue with the other
stakeholders, including the private tertiary sector, to build a consensus for moving the health sector
towards provision of low-cost effective services. The project will assist in two ways. First, by
establishing task forces which encourage dialogue between different sector players to find solutions.
Second, the project helps in introducing necessary tools and establishing systems to begin addressing
the problems of inefficient use of resources (e.g., resulting from duplicate and false billing). Data
collection systems and the development of a carte sanitaire will assist the Government in strategic
sector planning by making it possible to identify medical and geographic priorities for investment.
Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.32   The PCU will be responsible for overall project monitoring and periodic evaluation. Progress
reports will be submitted by the PCU on a quarterly basis during each year of project implementation.
The reports will describe the state of project implementation including the status of procurement and
disbursement. During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that MOH would furnish the Bank
with semi-annual reports on the implementation of the project.
4.33   Except for the six hospitals and about half of the health centers to be rehabilitated under Part
B of the project (where extensive surveys were carried out by MOH and Bank staff, as part of project
preparation), there is no reliable baseline data, either on the performance of health care providers or
on health conditions in various parts of the country. Furthermore, the current institutional capacity of
MOH does not enable such data to be developed. Several activities under the institutional component
of the project will directly address the problem of lack of data. The institutional capacity of MOH
will be significantly strengthened within months after the project is declared effective and suitable
monitoring and evaluation indicators are expected to be in place within one year of loan effectiveness.
The indicators which were identified and agreed on during project preparation and that will serve as a
guide to MOH staff concerned are described at Annex N. These indicators fall into two categories:
(i) monitoring indicators (i.e., input and process indicators) which will be used to track project
activities against the tentative implementation schedule (see Annex I); and (ii) evaluation indicators
(i.e., output indicators and, to a lesser extent, impact indicators) which will be used to assess the
benefits resulting from the project against the objectives.
4.34   During loan negotiations, assurances will be obtained from the Government that MOH will
carry out monitoring and evaluation of the project, in accordance with the indicators and schedule
agreed on with the Bank.
4.35   It is expected that the Bank will conduct two supervision missions per year on average, during
the life of the project. Details on the proposed supervision plan are provided in Annex N. A mid-
term review of all project activities will be conducted jointly by CDR, MOH and the Bank. To
facilitate the review, CDR and MOH will prepare a detailed report covering all aspects of the project
and submit it to the Bank for a joint review by December 31, 1997. During loan negotiations, the
Government agreed to undertake with the Bank a mid-term review of the project.
- 28 -



4.36   The project implementation completion report will be prepared by the implementing agency
and submitted to the Bank not later than six months after closing of the loan.
D. Environmental Considerations
4.37   The project is classified under Category C (projects which do not result in significant
environmental impact) and no environmental assessment is needed. The rehabilitation of the six
hospitals under the project will include the provision of waste disposal systems for both medical and
sanitary wastes.
E. Status of Project Preparation
4.38   Part A. The objectives and broad scope of all activities to be performed by MOH have been
discussed in detail and agreed on with MOH. The composition of the task forces required to perform
these activities has been agreed on, including the number and qualifications of contract staff required
to strengthen MOH, local and international consultants, and individuals or institutions that will advise
MOH staff and consultants. Because the current capacity of MOH is limited, with only a few staff
involved in project preparation, it was agreed that the work program and terms of reference of
consultants for each activity would be worked out as part of project implementation, i.e., once MOH
has been strengthened with contract staff.
4.39   Part B. The current situation at each of the six hospitals has been assessed in detail by joint
teams consisting of Bank staff and consultants, MOH personnel and government consultants. (The
assessment concerns both the conditions of the buildings and equipment as well as the main
operational and managerial aspects, such as current staffing, utilization, etc.). The list of health
centers (both public and private) to be included in the project has been finalized and most centers
have been visited by Bank staff. Extensive dialogue has taken place between MOH, representatives
of the main NGOs and Bank staff, and the terms of the MOH/NGO contractual agreement have been
agreed on by all parties concerned. The package of essential services to be provided at health centers
has been drafted and will need to be finalized by the MOH task force concerned. For both the
hospitals and health centers, the equipment list and the building rehabilitation work to be provided
have been agreed on.
4.39   The WHO office in Beirut has been closely associated with policy dialogue between Bank
staff and MOH, as well as with project preparation. Staff and consultants from WHO have carried
out a number of background studies and sector assessments that were used to prepare the project,
e.g., the development of a primary health care strategy by MOH and WHO staff. The WHO office
in Beirut was also directly involved in the identification, supervision and guidance of consultants
recruited by MOH to prepare specific project components. Finally, several project activities, such as
the establishment of cost containment mechanisms for MOH expenditure on private services and the
development of a health information system, directly complement ongoing activities financed by WHO
and, hence, have benefited from earlier preparatory work carried out by WHO.
- 29 -



V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1    Part A of the project will strengthen the institutional capacity of MOH paying particular
attention to key functions of the Ministry, mainly sector planning, regulation and coordination. It will
initiate tasks that are critical to the development of the health sector and enable the identification of
areas for further investment. From a broader point of view, Part A will help restore the role of the
Government in the sector.
5.2    Part B of the project will help the Government to shift emphasis from specialized hospital
services, mainly located in the Beirut area, to outpatient services and general hospital care, while
improving the delivery of essential public health and clinical services. The thirty public and private
health centers included in the project serve an estimated 750,000 people who live in their immediate
catchment areas. Equally important, the project will constitute an important step towards closer
collaboration between MOH and the other providers of health services (mainly NGOs and private
providers), hence rationalizing the use of existing resources in the sector.
5.3    Rehabilitation of the six public hospitals would provide enhanced inpatient services to most of
the population living in the central and northern parts of the Bekaa region, the Northern province, the
Mount Lebanon area, the area north of Beirut, and in the border area of Tyr, in the south. These
areas, covering about half of the country, are underserved. Through the rehabilitation of hospitals,
the project would also establish the basis for an effective referral system between primary and
secondary care.
5.4    The main beneficiaries of the investment component will be the poor. An estimated 45
percent of the population is not covered by any insurance scheme. People with income too low to
afford private hospitals or whose job benefits do not include health insurance will use public hospitals.
Targeting of benefits will occur through a combination of self-selection as well as geographical
location. The public hospitals to be rehabilitated are in underserved areas with a concentration of the
poor and low-income groups in their catchment areas.
B. Project Risks
5.5    The main risk relates to the limited institutional capacity of the implementing agency (MOH),
combined with its lack of familiarity with the Bank's procedures in general. Consequently, Bank staff
would need to play a more active role than usual in supervision of the project. During
implementation, the project will provide technical assistance and training to establish a strong project
implementation unit and generally strengthen MOH's institutional capacity. Moreover, the project
scope has been kept as simple as possible, given the magnitude of the needs and complexity of the
health sector situation.
5.6    A second risk is the possibility that political changes may jeopardize government commitment
to essential policies, such as the shift of priorities and public resources towards the delivery of
essential services, and the use of private instead of government health care providers. However, such
a reversal in policy, although not impossible, would go against the views expressed by the concerned
- 30 -



parties, both within and outside the Government. This risk will be addressed through continuous
policy dialogue between the Government and Bank staff who will supervise the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1    During negotiations, the Government agreed that:
(a) MOH will submit to the Bank for comments, a health services development plan, and
endorse the plan, by June 30, 1997 (para. 3.8).
(b) MOH will submit to the Bank a detailed plan for the implementation of the
recommendations of the five studies on health sector financing reform which will be
carried out under the project, by December 31, 1997 (para. 3.9).
(c) MOH will establish by December 31, 1997, an intersectoral committee to monitor
implementation of the recommendations made by the five studies, consisting of
representatives of MOH, the other ministries involved in the provision and financing of
health services, the Ministry of Finance, the main health insurance companies (public and
private), the existing HMOs, and the main providers of health care (para. 3.10).
(d) MOH will carry out and furnish to the Bank for review and comments, an evaluation of
the quality and quantity of the essential services provided at the 20 health centers
operated by NGOs under contractual agreements with MOH, by June 30, 1997 (para.
3.19).
(e) MOH will allocate the necessary recurrent budget, on an annual basis, for all operation
and maintenance of project facilities and will submit to the Bank for its review and
comments, details on these allocations, no later than April 15, each year until the
completion of the project (para. 4.6).
(f) MOH will maintain the PCU for the duration of the project, with staffing, functions and
authority agreed on with the Bank (para. 4.9).
(g) The Government will retain for the duration of the project the Joint Committee
MOH/CDR, with functions and authority agreed on with the Bank (para. 4.10).
(h) MOH will incorporate in its regular budget the additional staff positions provided under
the project to strengthen the ministry, in accordance with a schedule agreed on between
the Borrower and the Bank (para. 4.13).
(i) The Government will open and maintain a special account for the project, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.19).
(j) The Government will provide the Bank, within six months of the end of each fiscal year
of the Government, with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
- 31 -



reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against
a certified statement of expenditures (para. 4.20).
(k) MOH will furnish the Bank with semi-annual reports on the implementation of the
project (para. 4.32).
(I) MOH will carry out monitoring and evaluation of the project, in accordance with the
indicators and schedule agreed on with the Bank (para. 4.34).
(m) The Government will undertake with the Bank a mid-term review of the project (para.
4.35).
6.2    With the above assurances from the Government, the proposed project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$35.7 million equivalent for a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. The Borrower will be the Government of the Lebanese Republic.
- 32 -



Annex A
Page 1 of 4
HEALTH AND DEMOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS IN LEBANON
Introduction
1.    Civil unrest, which plagued the country for 17 years, resulted in the disruption of the
entire public health system. It affected not only the health status of the population, but resulted
also in the collapse of the department of vital and health statistics of MOH. The breakdown of
most government agencies led to the emergence of numerous NGO's to meet the most urgent
needs of the population. Hundreds of health facilities supported by NGO's, along with a few
public health facilities and numerous private practitioners, were providing health services. Within
this framework, there was no rational, coordinated system for data collection and analysis.
Therefore, accurate and comprehensive epidemiological information related to major causes of
mortality and morbidity, disease patterns and trends is not available in Lebanon.
2.     Some estimations of the health situation can be made through isolated studies and surveys.
In 1990, UNICEF, in collaboration with MOH, the American University of Beirut and other
partners, carried out large-scale surveys and initiated several studies to better assess the situation
of women and children. More recently, in February 1994, a survey to qualitatively assess the
epidemiological pattern of most common diseases was carried out in 23 outpatient centers, among
a sample of school age children, and through reviewing medical records of over 31,500 outpatient
visits that took place between 1980 and 1988 at the American University Hospital.
Demographic Aspects
3.     The total population, estimated at 2.4 million in 1970 and 2.74 million in 1990, is
expected to increase to 3.31 million in 2000 and 4.47 million in 2025. The present annual
population growth rate is estimated at 2 percent. Table A. 1 compares the crude birth rate, crude
death rate and rate of natural increase between Lebanon and other selected Middle Eastern
countries. In a 1987 survey, the average number of children born to women ages 1549 was
found to be 4.5, ranging from 5 in remote areas of the south to 3.2 in Beirut. The present average
family size is estimated to be 5.5.
Table A.1: Common Health and Demographic Indicators for
Lebanon, Egypt, Syria and Jordan (1985-1990 Estimates)'
Country      Crude Birth  | Crude Death  | Rate of Natural | Infant Mortality | Life Exp. at
Rate           Rate         Increase         Rate           Birth
Lebanon               27.9            7.8            2.0           40             67.0
Egypt                 35.1           10.8            2.4           65             59.1
Syria                 44.0            7.0            3.7           48             64.9
Jordan                38.9            6.4            3.3           44            65.9
Source: UN, World Population Prospecb, The 1992 Revision



Annex A
Page 2 of 4
4.     The civil unrest also resulted in dramatic rural-to-urban migration. Rural dwellers now
account for only 13 percent of the total population as compared to approximately 40 per cent in
1970. It is estimated that 1.4 million Lebanese were displaced at some point during the war, of
which approximately 800,000 have moved permanently. The majority of them have settled in East
Beirut and its suburbs and in northern Lebanon. In addition, surrounding conflicts in the region
brought into the country about 280,000 Palestinian and 20,000 Iraqi refugees.
General Health Indicators
5.     Demographic and health indicators are typical of middle income countries. Life
expectancy at birth has increased from 66 years, ten years ago, to 67 years in 1992. It is higher
than in Egypt, Syria and Jordan (see Table A. 1). Female life expectancy reached 70.5 as
compared to 68.7 in Egypt, 69.8 in Jordan and 69.2 in Syria.
6.     Perinatal mortality did not drop from  1979 to 1990 (17.5 per thousand). It is responsible
for 50 percent of infant mortality and for 40.7 percent of under-five mortality.
7.     The national average figures conceal important geographical disparities. For instance, the
Beckaa and the northern regions, with only 25 percent of the country's children, account for 60
percent of under-five mortality, a pattern similar to that found in studies conducted before the
war. The slums of Beirut and Tripoli, along with the rural areas in the Akkar and Hermel
regions, appear to be significantly worse off than other parts of the country.
Mortality and Morbidity Pattern
8.     Lebanon is undoubtedly undergoing an epidemiological transition, although neither the
magnitude nor the pace at which the transition is taking place can be properly assessed due to lack
of reliable data.
9.     In 1979, a study conducted at the American University Hospital reported that infectious
disease accounted for 30 percent of infant and child death. Table A.2 provides a breakdown by
causes.
Table A.2: Infectious Diseases Causing Death Among Children
Ages 1 Month to 14 Years
Percent of Total Tvpe of Infectious Disease                  Infectious Diseases Deaths
Pneumonia                                                            35
Meningitis and Encephalitis                                          30
Gastroenteritis                                                      16
Hepatitis                                                             6
Vaccine Preventable Diseases                                          6
Tuberculosis                                                          2
Other Infectious Diseases                                             5
Total                                                               1
Source: Mounia and Sweidan: Study of Hospital Deaths Among Children, I Month-14 Years. American University Hospital, 1979.



Annex A
Page 3 of 4
10.    Except for improvement in the control of diarrheal diseases and vaccine preventable
diseases, there has been no significant change over time regarding infectious diseases responsible
for child mortality. A 1990 survey also suggested that measles and prematurity constituted
important causes of infant and child mortality. It was estimated that a child under five had an
average of seven annual episodes of acute respiratory infections.
11.    In 1979, diarrheal diseases were estimated to be responsible for 6 percent of childhood
mortality while a survey conducted in 1990 estimated diarrhea to be associated in 3.75 percent of
under five child mortality. The average number of annual episodes of diarrhea was 3.6 per child
with significant geographic disparities, the incidence being highest in the rural areas of the
Beckaa, the northern and the southern regions.
12.    The EPI program launched in 1987 provided nation-wide immunization to more than 80
percent of children under one year of age, for both OPV 3 (poliomyelitis) and DTP 3 (diphtheria,
tetanus, pertussis). These results led to important reductions in poliomyelitis, pertussis, diphtheria
and tetanus cases. For the first time, no cases of polio were reported in 1992. However, with
only 40 percent of one-year-old children immunized, measles still remains an important cause of
child mortality.
13.    The last study on tuberculosis, which goes back to 1974, indicated that the incidence of
tuberculosis had been increasing since 1971, especially among children between 5 and 14 years
old. Despite the lack of more recent comprehensive data, it is recognized that the tuberculosis
problem is far worse today than it was before the outbreak of civil disturbances in 1975. Since
then, many interconnected factors known to be associated with the spread of the disease have been
at work, contributing to the rise in the number of cases of tuberculosis: social and economic
consequences of the war; overcrowding and deterioration of living conditions due to extensive
population movement and displacement; lack of proper diagnosis, treatment and follow-up.
14.    About 170 cases of HIV infection have been reported since the first case of AIDS was
introduced in the country in 1985/1986. Yet, since many physicians refuse to report the disease,
the actual number of cases is thought to be much higher.
15.    Schistosomiasis has been eradicated from agricultural areas of the south and malaria, a
former health problem in the northern part of the country, has disappeared.
16.    According to a 1981 study, fewer than 10 percent of school children could be classified as
malnourished. Despite the deterioration in the nutritional status of society in general, especially
among children, malnutrition is reported to be rare and restricted to groups living in particularly
difficult situations, such as refugees. With the exception of goiter and iron deficiency anaemia,
signs of nutritional deficiency were low'.
17.    Chronic and degenerative diseases are also found to be common, evidence of the
epidemiological transition that is taking place in Lebanon. They are prevalent not only in large
1 Several studies reported a minimum of 35 percent of iodine deficiency and goiter, mostly among citizens living in low
socio-economic conditions in the high mountains, inland and even on the coast.



Annex A
Page 4 of 4
cities (where the diagnosis is affected by the availability of numerous specialists, sophisticated
diagnostic apparatus and treatment services), but also in rural areas. Also, health problems
related to social instability, including violent crimes and suicide, have recently gained importance
and there may be a gradual escalation in traffic accidents.
18.   In 1981, a survey conducted by Caritas, a leading NGO in Lebanon, estimated the number
of handicapped individuals at 106,355. However, because of the intense damage caused by the
war in its later stages, this figure underestimated the magnitude of this problem and there might
be as many as 200,000 disabled people who deserve particular attention.
19.   Accidents account for 4.6 percent of deaths below fifteen years of age, and poisoning
(especially by drugs and kerosene) is becoming responsible for a substantial proportion of deaths
in this age group. A high incidence of mental retardation among children has been reported.
Several studies have underscored the extremely detrimental impact of the war on the psychological
development of Lebanese children: more than half of the children residing in Beirut were
suffering from psychosomatic illnesses; one child in every ten families exhibited behavioral
problems; 70 percent of the mothers reported an increase in anxious and aggressive behavior in
their children 3-9 years old. Results of a 1989 study showed that 96 percent of children residing
in greater Beirut had been exposed to at least one traumatic event (exposure to shelling and
combat, forced change of residence, deprivation of basic food), and that, on average, a Lebanese
child had experienced five to six different types of traumatic events in his/her lifetime.
20.   Consanguineous marriages seem to remain a common practice in Lebanon. In 1971, it
was estimated to be 18 percent and the most recent study of the problem carried out in 1986 found
it to be 26 percent. This high rate of consanguineous marriage may have resulted in a high
incidence of genetic disease. In total, 164 different genetic diseases have been documented in the
country, the most common being mental retardation, thalassemia, familial hypercholesterolemia,
hypothyroidism and genetic eye diseases. The magnitude of morbidity related to consanguineous
marriage is evidenced by the fact that about 17 per cent of admissions to the American University
Hospital are patients suffering from a genetically related disease.



REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
Ministry of Public lealth
THE MINISTER                                                                         Annex B
Page 1 of 5
Beirut, Lebanon
October 5th, 1994
Mr. Caio Koch-Weser
Vice President
North Africa and Middle East Region
World Bank
Dear Mr. Koch-Weser,
In the context of the ongoing collaboration between the Government of Lebanon
and the World Bank, I would like to reiterate for your benefit the main directions of the
Government's strategy in the health sector.
The Government is firmly committed to developing a health care system that will
provide equitable access to essential health care for all Lebanese, while achieving
efficient delivery of medically effective services. To this end, the Government's strategy
for the health sector emphasizes strengthening the central administration; addressing key
issues in the delivery of primary and secondary care; and developing financing
mechanisms that are designed to promote efficiency in the provision and use of services
as well as to broadly spread the financial consequences associated with ill health.
Background on the Health Sector
Health Conditions Lebanon is experiencing an epidemiological transition in
which fertility and infant mortality rates are declining, life expectancy is rising and
infectious disease are becoming less prevalent than non-communicable diseases (diabetes
and cardiovascular diseases are especially prominent). Malnutrition is rare and parasitic
diseases have been brought under control. However, not all regions of the country are
undergoing the same process and in some areas infant mortality remains extremely high.
Effects of the extended period of civil war can be seen in the high incidence of
tuberculosis, which is more prevalent today than it was in 1975. Information on health
conditions is limited. There are however a number of surveys and pilot studies that are
forthcoming: a "Pap-Child" survey on health and demographic conditions, several
specific disease surveys, and a "Demographic and Habitat Study".
Health Systems An extensive network of primary care facilities is operated by the
Government, NGOs and private practitioners. There are approximately 760 outpatient
facilities, 80% of which are operated by NGOs and the remainider by the Government.
The quality and range of services provided at these facilities varies widely and they do
not constitute an effective health care delivery system. Hospital ser4ices are provided
almost entirely by the private sector: over 95% of the approximate 12,000 beds in
Lebanon are in private hospitals. Preventive programs have been initiated and financed
by international agencies.
,.,



REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
Minisry of Public Health
THE MINISTER                                                                            Annex B
Page 2 of 5
The Government recognizes the important role that the private sector, including
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), play in the provision of health care in Lebanon
and wishes to reinforce the complementarity between private and public providers and
institutions in shaping and efficient and effective delivery system. Hence, in restructuring
the public sector, the Government will reorient it from activities that can be carried out
more efficiently by the private sector.
Main Issues and Problems in the Health Sector
Four main factors presently limit the ability of the health sector to provide a full
range of appropriate services to all segments of the population.
Role and Capabilities of the Ministry of Health At present, an integrated policy
and regulatory framework for public and private activities and for sector planning is
lacking, as is the ability of the Ministry of Health to develop this framework.
Development of regulatory, administrative and planning capacity in the Ministry is a
prerequisite to any sustained improvement in sector development and operation. This will
require expansion of the Ministry's staff and a clear articulation of the future role of the
Government in the sector.
Primary Health Care While the network of public and private outpatient clinics
and general practitioners is well developed, these providers concentrate on curative and
individual services. Cost-effective programs, such as tuberculosis control, which
concentrate on public health priorities have received little attention at the level of service
providers and national programs in disease control are weak in organization. Moreover,
there is wide variance in the quality and range of clinical services available.
Structure of the Hospital Sector High quality basic inpatient hospital services
are widely available to the better off segments of the population but are largely
inaccessible to low income uninsured groups. Due to the deterioration of the public
hospital system through the years of civil unrest, the MOH has adopted a practice of
reimbursing private hospitals for services delivered to uninsured patients when sufficient
care is unavailable in public facilities. On average, 75-80% of MOH's budget has been
devoted to purchasing services for this purpose. However, private hospitals which are
capable of delivering adequate services have little incentive to participate in this
arrangement due to the greater profitability of serving insured and better off patients. The
cost of secondary care services in private hospitals is also higher than in public hospitals
due to concentration of these facilities on technology-initensive tertiary services which
create high overheads even for simple procedures.
Health Care Financing The present financing system has resulted in health care
price escalation which outpace economic growth and general price inflation. MOH's
obligation to pay for all services provided by private hospitals to uninsured patients has
created distortionary incentives which encourage the use of high-tethnology high-cost
procedures when appropriate lower cost measures are available. Large expenditures on
these types of services also result in misallocation of resource by reducing spending on
preventive and public health programs. Finally, the capacity of both MOH and insurance
companies to monitor consumption and payments is limited.                     .
'' ,3f1Ft9S
A~.~*



REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
Ministry of Public Health
THE MINISTER                                                                             Annex B
Page 3 of 5
Government Policies
To address these problems an action program designed to address immediate and
long term goals will be implemented, as desciibed below.
Strengthening the MOH The Government envisages strengthening the MOH so
that it can assume a leadership role in defining policy and priority programs, in
monitoring and evaluating resource use in the sector, and in pursuing regulatory functions
and quality control of both public and private service providers. This will be done over a
three year period. This process will include revision of the organizational structure and
administrative procedures of the MOH to enhance its planning capabilities and to
establish systems to monitor and control resource allocation, as well as development of a
national health infomation data base at the service provider and national levels. Key
personnel will be added to the Ministry to increase its capacity in financial and sector
management and planning.
In service provision, the Government's sectoral priorities address both preventive
and curative health services. The public sector will focus on primary health care,
including preventive services, and on general hospital services. As a general rule, public
sector facilities will only operate in iinderseived areas with significant low income
uninsured populations.
Improviig Delivery oj Primalry ain(d Prevenitive Service. At the primary health
care level, the Government will actively encourage the delivery of preventive services
and improvement in the quality of care delivered by public and NGO-operated health
institutions through the introduction of a comprehenisive package of essential public
health and preventive services. This package will be implemented at first through a pilot
program in public and NGO-operated health centers to be completed over three years,
after which it will be extended throughout the country. Beginning next fiscal year, the
Government will sub-contract with selected NGOs to provide the package of essential
services and implement public health programs and will provide in-service training to the
main categories of health workers in public and NGO health centers. The Government
will also increasingly use universities and scientific societies in the management and
development of special health programs.
Rehabilitating the Public Hospital Sector In the hospital sector, private hospitals
in Lebanon are ftilfilling an important role in the provision of services to the insured and
better off segments of the population. In contrast, the aim of the Government will be to
ensure that general hospital services of good quality are available to all segments of the
population, including low income unlinsured groups. To this end, the Governlment intends
to do the following:
a)    Over the next six years, the Government will rehabititate public general
hospitals in underserved areas where there is a sufficient number of low
income uninsured persons to justify a public hospital. These hospitals will
serve as referral facilities for the primary care network, providing health
centers and general practitioners with the technical and logistic support
they need. Hence, these hospitals will lend techinical credibility to the
entire health care delivery system. <
.,"          {   S



REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
Ministry of Public Health
THE MINISTER                                                                             Annex B
Page 4 of 5
b)    In public hospitals, necessary conditions for improved performance
involve continuous autonomy in the management of their resources,
including the introduction of incentive structures for hospital personnel.
The Government intends to ensure that the decentralized status currently
enjoyed by public hospitals will be mailtainied and that hospital
administrators will continue to be able to raise and retain revenues for
their facility's use.
c)    While private hospitals will continue to serve mainly the better off, and to
be the principal providers of tertiary care, the Government also sees a role
for the private sector in addressing certain needs of the uninsured
population. Where services are unavailable in public hospitals, the MOH
will continue its present practice of assisting low income uninsured
people by financing part of the cost of services provided by private
hospitals. In order to ensure efficient use of resources, the MOH will
establish mechanisms to monitor major sources of expenditures in private
hospitals, will establish a comprehensive tariff system for MOH funded
patients in private hospitals and will standardized and computerized
billing and patient records systems in private hospitals. Private hospitals
are the main providers of specialized tertiary services and involvement of
public hospitals at this level will continue to be minimal.
Health Care Financing A system  of health care financing that provides
appropriate incentives is essential if health care reform is to succeed. Health care costs
are rising well in excess of real growth in GDP due to the present practice of
concentrating public health expenditures on a relatively small proportion of the
population with expensive medical care needs. This practice deprives primary care
facilities of resources an- the large low income and uninsLired segment of the population
of adequate care. At the same time, the MOH lacks sufficient institutional capabilities to
develop financing strategies that could begin to address these problems.
The MOH will take the following approaches to developing workable solutions to
health financing: (i) over the next twelve months the Ministry will strengthen its
institutional capability to articulate strategies for public health financing through the
recruitment of staff and consultants and the establishment of an inter-sectoral committee;
(ii) within three years the Ministry will have established its regulatory and control
functions; (iii) over the next two years the Ministry will prepare reforms in health sector
financing by undertaking general system-wide studies of alternative health financing
options with a view to their cost-saving potential and allocative efficiency, including
prospective payment systems, competitive bidding arrangements, and capital
reimbursement arrangements.
-         -



REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
Ministry of Public Health
THE MINISTER                                                                          Annex B
Page 5 of 5
Continuation or the Reform Process
The Govemment sees the strategy outlined above as the first part of a phased
program. With the re-establishment of MOH as an effective planning and regulatory
body, further articulation of health sector refor-m priorilies will become possible. In the
long run, as health care financing and the incentive structure for private hospitals is
revised, the need for public provision of impatient services May decline. At this time, the
Government intends to ensure that essential primary, preventive and inpatient services are
available to all segments of the population while taking the first steps in designing and
implementing financial systems and institutional capacity necessary for future
development.
Yours Sincerely,
/i,.   ,    \ 9             Marwan Hamade
A   \  ->t.  . 0 -            .Miniister of Public Health
c.c. - Prime Minister
- Council for Development and Reconstruiction
- World Health Organization
- Archives



The Ministry of Health
IMinister of                    U
PHealth
MJoint         | ICDR
Communicable  HositlsVet                     Pocreen
Director C
General of 
Health
Saiato     I   I  ,i      ~                              far
|Director of   |    Director of Care |  Director of    |    Cabinet             Planning Unit       PCU
OPrevention   liLaboratories
Preventive    | |Health Centers |    Central Lab    |    Accounting
|Medicine      I II II II
Communicable        Hospitals          Vector Control       Procurement
iDisease Control
|other and    | Pharmacies    |    Chemotherapy  | Personnel
|Child Health
[Hygiene and    | |Drugs/Medical  |      lod Bank          l |External 
|Sanitation    |    Supplies                               l   Affairs  I
lOccupational I                                                  
|Health
Statistics
June 1994



TABLE D.1: PART A -- ESTABLISHMENT OF TASK FORCES - SUMMARY OF THE MAIN RESOURCES REQUIRED
Task Force    I-Resources Required
Contract   Associated              | lntern.  | Local   | Local    Fellow    Sem-  | Office       Office       | Office       Ve-    | Office     | Educat.
Staff      Members                   Cons.    Cons'    Tmg.1  -ships'   inar'         Space       Equip.         Furniture    hicles    Supplies   | Matenal
Administrative      3       MOF                         2         36        92        16       224       40m2      computer: 3      2 sets       I      $1,800/yr    $10,000
Structure &                 universities                                                                          printer: I                                           lump
Procedures                  civil servants authonty                                                               fax: I                                               sum
photocopy: 1
Health              8       universities,               8         100      210        40       212       72m2     computer: 3       4 sets       3      $1,800/yr   $70,000
Information                 union of private                                                                      printer: 2
System                      hospitals,                                                                            fax:I
WHO, assoc. of epidem.                                                                photocopy: I
Health              4       NGOs,                                  3        100       9        179       40m2      computer: 2      3 sets       I      $1,800/yr    $50,000
Centers                     university,                                                                            printer: 1
Management                  WHO                                                                                   photocopy: I
Management          3       NGOs,                       11        36        72        9        268       40m2      computer: 3      3 sets       I      $2,400/yr    $10,000
of                          union priv. hospitals,                                                                 printer: I
Public                      University,                                                                            fax: 1
Hospitals                   Med.Assoc.                                                                             photocopy: I
Establish           3       NGOs, union priv.           9         24                           208       30m2      computer: 2      3 sets       1      $2,200/yr   $10,000
"carte                     hospitals, Universities,                                                               printer: 2
sanitaire'                  WHO                                                                                   photocopy: I
Development         3       med- assoc.,                6          9                  6        179       30m2      computer: 3      2 sets       I      $1,200/yr    $10,000
of                          universities, union of                                                                 printer: 1
Health                      private hospitals,                                                                     photocopy: I
Services
Health Care        6        health insurance            6         18        168       17       298       74m2      computer: 6      5 sets       1      $2,000/yr    $12,000
Cost                        companies, health care                                                                printer: 4
Containment                 providers (private and                                                                 fax: 2
public), HMOs,                                                                        photocopy: I
HealthCare   |    10                                    10        27        252       25       448   |    10M2    computer: 9       7 sets       I       $3,000/yr   $18,000
Reform        l                                               l         l         l        l         |           | printer: 6
fax: 2
___ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  |_ _            |_  _    photocopy:   I  |           _         _           _         I
2/ pwda1



Annex E
Page 1 of 4
CURRENT SITUATION AT HEALTH CENTERS
TO BE REHABILITATED UNDER THE PROJECT
1.    As a result of the war and the interruption of activities of the Ministry of Health, religious,
ethnic and political groups organized their own health facilities to respond to the urgent health needs,
especially of a curative nature, of their communities.
2.    At present, Lebanon has about 760 outpatient facilities ranging from small dispensaries to
fairly large health centers distributed throughout the country. Approximately 80 percent of these
facilities are administered by NGOs and receive limited support from international relief organizations
and/or donor agencies such as UNICEF. The remaining 20 percent are dependant on the Ministry of
Health (MOH), Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) or other government agencies such as local
municipalities or the military.
3.    As part of the preparation of this project, with the support of local consultants, MOH carried
out a survey of 53 health centers covering most of the country. This survey provided the basic
information regarding: geographical distribution, population covered, type of center, services
provided, number of medical and nonmedical personnel and the size and condition of the physical
facility the center occupies. Tables D-1, D-2 and D-3 present a summary of the information gathered
for each of the 10 Government-operated public health centers and the 20 private health centers
selected for the project.



Annex E
Pa,ee 2 of 4
TABLE E.1: PUBLIC HEALTH CENTERS
Minia Med.     Beit       Oranage                             Deir El                   Al-Riffi
NAME                          Ctr.        Eddine      Nassu       Tamliss     Bcheri      Ahmar       Chwaifat    Hamana    Hermel
LOCATION                     Tripoli      Chouf       Tripoli      Beirut      North    Bekaa (N)    Mt. Leb       Baabda      Bekaa
TYPE                       Health Ctr.    Small        Small    Health Ctr.    Rural      Medical    Health Ctr.  Health Ctr.   Govt.
Hosp.       Hosp.                   Hosp.        Ctr.                               Hospital
POPULATION SERVED            50,000      150,000      600,000     300,000     60,000                   70.000      50,000      90,000
SERVICES PROVIDED
First Aid                                                                       X                        X
Vaccination                     X           X           X            X          X           X                         X
General Practice                X           X                        X          X           X            x            x
Specialist                      X           X            X           X           X                             X            X    X
Chronic Illness                             X            X                       X
Prenatal Care                               X                 X                              X                                   X
Family Planning
Dental Care                     X           X                                               X
Health Education                                                                X                                                X
Home Visits
Laboratory Test                             X           X                                   X
ECG                                                     X
X-Rays                                      X           X
Minor Surgery                                           X                       X                        X
No. of Consultations          6,351       5,350        7500       13,699       1,200      7,800        5,580       500+/-      5,229
STAFF/PROFESSIONAL
No. of Doctors                  4           9           12           6           1                       5            3          2
Full-Time                       4           3           12           0           1                       1            0
Part-Time                       0           6                        6           0                       4            3           1
Other Medical Staff             2           11          40           8          12                       0            0          12
Non-Medical Staff               4           14          26           5           9                       2            2          26
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Area (M2)                     1,190       1,020        1,954      600+/-    700+/-         1,200        950          600        750
Building Ownership            MOH         MOH          MOH         MOH        Private                             Municipal
Lease Agreement
Short or Long-term



Annex E
Pa2ze 3 of 4
TABLE E.2: PRIVATE HEALTH CENTERS
Medico-     Al Hawra   Al Jamiat   Burj El        Medico     Wady         Medico      Philantropic  General    Medico
NAME                        Social       Medical     Al           Barajneh    Social      Abou Jmil-  Social      Islamic      Health       Soc.
Center      Center       Khayriat    Med. Ctr.   Center      Amel         Center      Assoc.       Center       Ctr. -
404         213          102         205          508        Institut     204         503          104          Khaldieh
109                                              412
LOCATION                    Akkar       Baabda          Beirut     Baabda       Saida       Beirut      Baabda       Saida        Beinut     Zgharta
TYPE                        Medico-      Matem/      Health Ctr.  Health Ctr.   Health    Health Ctr.   Medico-   Dispensary   Health Ctr.  Medico-
Soc.        Child                                    Ctr.                    Soc.                                 Soc.
POPULATION SERVED           19 villages   1,000,000    14 villages   400,000   150,000     185,000     300,000      125,000      60 ,000     156,000
SERVICES PROVIDED
First Aid                       X                         X           X           X           X           x            x                        x
Vaccinaton                      X            X           X            X           X           X           X            X            X          X
General Practice                X                                     X           X           X           X                         X           x
Specialist                      X                                                 X           X           X                         X           X
Chronic Illness                 X                                     X                       X           X                         X           X
Prenatal Care                                X                        X                       X           X                         X           X
Famnily Planning                             X           X            X                       X           X                                    X
Dental Care                     X                         X           X           X                       X            X            X           X
Health Education                X                                                             X           X            X                        x
Home Visits                     X                                     X                       X           X            X                        X
Laboratory Test                 X            X                                                X                        X            X           X
ECG                             X                        X            X           X           X           X                         X          X
X-Rays                          X            X                                                                                      X           X
Minor Surgery                                                                     X           X                        X                       X
No. of Consultations          9,383        31,890      20,527       12,550      7,663       8,950       6,525        11,709       6,827      10,820
STAFF/PROFESSIONAL
No. of Doctors                  5            11          37          29           15          16          20          20           30          27
Full-Time                       0            2            1           2           0           1            1           0            1           0
Part-Time                       5            9           36          27           15          15          19    1    20            29     |   27
Other Medical Staff              4           16           11          8           4           4           6            4            15         10
Non-Medical Staff               4                        11           4           5           1            1           4            6          4
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Area (M2)                      1,000       1,000         705         660         424         400         400          400          424        420
Building Ownership
Lease Agreement
Shon or Long-term



Annex E
Page 4 of 4
TABLE E.2:  PRIVATE HEALTH CENTERS
(CONTINUED)
Karak       IBN Sina    Mar You    Medico        Karame    Medical       Amel        Saydate Ras  Cantas
NAME                       Geuzian      Med. Soc.   Hanna        Soc. Ctr.   lIc        Ctr. Malta   MC         El Metn       Med. Soc.
Disp.       Center       Chaaya      Ty re       411         302         303        202           Ctr.
218         402          216         509                                                          201
LOCATION                   Mt. Liban                 Mt. Liban      Tyr        Tripoli    N. Bekaa    Baalbek      Ras El-      Sarba
Metn
TYPE                       Disp.        Hlth. Ctr.    Hlth. Ctr.   HIth. Ccr.   HIth. Ctr.  Hlth. Ctr.   Hlth. Ctr.  Dispensary   Hith. Ctr.
POPULATION SERVED            250,000                   80,000      88,000     500.000     42,000      82,000       20,000     6 villages
SERVICES PROVIDED
First Aid                                   X                        X           X           X           X           X            X
Vaccination                     X           X      X           X           X           X           X           X                  X
General Practice                            X            X           X           X           X           X           X            X
Specialist     ,                            X            X           X                       X           X           X            X
Chronic Illness                             X            X           X           X           X           X           X            X
Prenatal Care                   X           X                        X           X           X           X           X            X
Family Planning                             X                        X
Dental Care                     X           X                                    X           X           X                        x
Health Education                X           X                                                                        x            x
Home Visits                     X           X                                                                                     x
Laboratory Test                             X            X           X           X
ECG                                         X            X                       X           X           X           X            X
X-Rays                                                   X
Minor Surgery                               X                        X
No. of Consultations          10,000      19,049       12,250      5,247       5,688       2,967       2,000        3,195       5,345
STAFF/PROFESSIONAL
No. of Doctors                  9           32           16          9           24          12          10           5           19
Full-Time                       I           0            0            1          0           0           0           0            0
Part-Time                       8           32           16          8           24          12          10           5           19
Other Medical Staff            29                        4            5          5           5           3            5           4
Non-Medical Staff               11                       3            2          4           5           2            7           I
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Area (M2)                     1,200        600         1,200        400         200         573         600          341         250
Building Ownership                                                                                                 Private      Private
Lease Agreement
Short or Long-term



Annex F
Page I of 3
HEALTH CENTERS: SERVICES AND FACILITIES
STANDARD PACKAGE OF ESSENTIAL PUBLIC HEALTH AND CLINICAL SERVICES
The standard package of essential services that the selected health centers will provide
include clinical, preventive, and community-oriented services.
Clinical Services
(i)    diagnosis, treatment, follow-up and/or referral of common communicable, chronic and
degenerative (e.g., cancer) diseases. Special attention will be given to the most prevalent
diseases, such as cardiac disorders (hypertension), diabetes, tuberculosis, sexually
transmitted diseases; psychic disorders (mental retardation, behavioral problems and
psychosomatic disorders, especially among children);
(ii)   treatment of minor medical and surgical emergencies such as burns, wounds and trauma;
(iii)   dental services including fillings, extraction and, on an optional basis, provision of mobile
and fixed prothesis;
(iv)   provision of essential drugs according to an approved list to be specified; and
(v)    diagnostic services, including laboratory tests (blood count and formula, hematocrit,
glycemia, creatinine, uric acid, cholesterol, triglycerides, urea, albumin, sedimentation
speed, pregnancy test, PPD test, direct microscopic urine analysis), EKG and, in the
larger centers. x-ray.
Preventive Services
(i)    prenatal care, including regular follow-up of pregnant women, detection of high risk
pregnancy and referral to hospital, provision of anti-tetanus toxoid, STD diagnosis and
treatment, and supplement of micronutrients (e.g., iron);
(ii)   child care, including well-baby clinics (growth monitoring, nutritional status), preschool
entry examination, follow-up of school age children (tests for vision, hearing and
behavioral problems);
(iii)   oral health;
(iv)   immunization against diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, poliomyelitis, and measles;
(v)    postnatal care, including postpartum surveillance (infections, complication);
(vi)   promotion of breast feeding and appropriate weaning practices; and
(vii)  family planning, including counselling and provision of contraceptive methods.



Annex F
Page 2 of 3
Other Public Health Activities
(i)    identification of specific population groups in the community (school age children, factory
workers, teachers, youth groups, community associations, local leaders, parents, school
directors);
(ii)    development and implementation of health education programs for targeted groups inside
the health centers (interpersonal communication and educational sessions for mothers) and
in the community;
(iii)   organization of workshops for community leaders to enlist their participation and support
in environmental protection and education activities;
(iv)    surveillance and control of infectious and endemic diseases.
Health Centers' Manpower
Based on information currently available on health conditions and assuming that, on
average, about 35,000 people live in the catchment area of a health center, the following staffing
pattern is considered adequate to deliver the above services:
- one full-time medical doctor, responsible for the organization (planning, monitoring and
evaluation) of all the activities to be available in and outside the center; this doctor could be a
general practitioner or an internist and should be trained in the concept and the content of
PHC services delivery;
- four part-time (including availability for emergency calls) specialists in pediatrics, obstetrics
and gynecology, ENT and ophthalmology;
- one dentist;
- one midwife;
- three to five nurses;
- one health educator;
- one or two social workers;
-  one pharmacist;
-  one laboratory technician;
- one x-ray technician (optional);
- one clerk;
-  one secretary;
- one driver .
Norms for Medical Equipment
The standard list of equipment --the list is to be used for any rehabilitation-- is as follows:
- equipment for routine clinical examination: stethoscope, sphygmomanometer, thermometer,
scales, examination table, laryngoscope, otoscope, ophthalmoscope, etc.
- equipment for gynecological/obstetrical examination: table, speculum, hysterometer, candles
for dilation, IUD insertion kit. etc.;
- minor surgery set: surgical needles, staples, forceps, scalpels, scissors, etc.;
- laboratory equipment: microscope, centrifuge, test tubes, etc.;
- EKG equipment;



Annex F
Page 3 of 3
x-ray equipment (simple, for bones and chest);
health education equipment: common teaching aids and materials such as posters, pamphlets,
overhead projector, flip charts, etc.;
office equipment;
one car for community activities.
Norms for Building Facilities
The building area of a "model" health center should have approximately 400 sq.m. Ideal
distribution is summarized in Table E-l, below.
Table F.1: Model Physical Infrastructure at Health Centers
Room                        number         j   Unit area (sq.m)       tot.area (sq.m)    l
Reception/waiting              1                     52                    52
Files/records                  1                     20                    20
Admin. Offices                 2                      9                     18
Consultation                   4                     12                    48
Treatment/Vaccin.              2                     12                    24
Emerg./min. surgery            1                     14                    14
Health education               1                     20                    20
Dental care                    2                     12                    24
Laboratory                     1                     12                    12
Pharmacy                       1                     14                     14
Storage                        1                     12                    12
Bathrooms                       4                     2. 5                 10
Staff room/kitchen             1                     18                    18
X-ray                          1                     14                    14
Sub-total                     23 |        l                      l         300
+   Circulation  (28%)   j__________       __   _________384



Annex G
Page I of 2
TABLE G.1: FRONTLINE REFERRAL HOSPITALS
(EXISTING CONDITIONS)
HOSPITAL NAME               Baalbek            Batroun       Dahr-EI Bachek         Sour             Tripoli           Zahle
LOCATION
Mohfazat                     Bekaa           N. Lebanon       Mt. Lebanon        S. Lebanon        N.Lebanon           Bekaa
Casa                        Baalbek           Batroun            Metn               Sour             Tripoli           Zahie
POPULATION                  600,000           200,000           500,000           300,000           600,000           500,000
BED CAPACITY                   175               135              140                75               150               82
FUNCTIONAL BEDS                75                110               87               75                157               63
OCCUPANCY RATE                8%                4,2%              43 %             3,9%              7,7%              3,8%
AVER. STAY'                   2.9                3.9              3.9               1.8               3.0               4.0
OTHER PUB. BEDS                0                 0                 0                 0                 40                0
CONTRACTED                     36                0                 0                 40                0                35
PRIVATE BEDS
OTHER PRIV. BEDS              275                -                330               160               450               349
BEDS/1000 INHAB.               .6                .6                .8               .9                1.1               .9
SERVICES PROVIDED
Admissions                    799              4,255             3,530             5,972             14,613            2,170
Outpatients                   6,682             4,200            17,626            20,922            16,606            2,797
Emergencies                   472               5,160            3,621             3,585             5,586             1,552
Surgery                       478               1,790            2,012             1,382             1,224              515
Deliveries                     33               525               429               646              3,688              247
X-Rays/Multiphasic           1,182             7,244             24,519            10,645            3,701             5,579
Screening
Lab Tests                     701              11,677            55,207            24,432            38,815           31,788
STAFF/PERSONNEL'
Medical Doctors                 3                 6                7         _          _       |                        6
Supp.Med.& NoriMed.            33                40                 _ 2              23                40        |      27
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Existing Sq. Meters          7,200             4,860             6,089             2,607             6,434             3,985
If expressed in full time equivalent



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
Table G.2: Front Line Referral Hospitals
(PROPOSED)
[HOSPITAL NAME             Baalbek         Batroun      Dahr-EI Bachek       Sour           Tripoli           Zahle
LOCATION
Mohfazat             J    Bekaa          N.Lebanon      Mt. Lebanon  [  S. Lebanon       N. Lebanon         Bekaa
Casa                      Baalbek         Batroun           Metn            Sour           Tripoli           Zahle
POPULATION                600,000         200,000         500,000         300,000          600,000         500,000
PROPOSED NO.                75              110              87              75              150              75
OF BEDS
EXPECTED                    80               80              80              80              80               80
OCCUPANCY
RATE (Percentage)
AVERAGE LENGTH               5               5               5                5               5               5
OF STAY (Days)
EXPECTED NO.               4,380           6,424           5,080            4,380           8,760           4,380
OF ADMISSIONS
ESTIMATED DAYS            21,900           32,210          25,404          21,900          43,800           21,900
HOSPITALIZATION
STAFF/PERSONNEL
MD'S REQUIRED               24               33              27              24              45               24
MEDICAL  STAFF              46               67              53              46              92               46
NON-MEDICAL                 124             181             132              124             248              124
STAFF                    _
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
AREA REQUIRED M2           4,500           6,600           5,220            4,500           9,000           4,500
(Based on 60 sq.m. per
bed)
RENOVATION RATE             55               13              19              45              35               45
(Percentage of global
index)



Annex H
Page 1 of 3
THE PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A.    Organization
1.           A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established under the Director General of
Health. The PCU will be comprised of a full time project coordinator who will have responsibility
for the day to day activities of the project. The project coordinator will be assisted by an accountant,
a computer expert, a civil works engineer, and two procurement experts --one national and one
international. Support staff will include interpreters/translators, if necessary, computer experts,
English or French speaking secretaries and drivers(some staff on a part time or occasional basis).
2.           The PCU will be provided with adequate office space for its staff and facilities for file
storage, copying, telecommunications (telephone, telex, and facsimile), information systems
(computers and software), transport, and adequate operating funds.
B.    Responsibilities of the PCU
3.           Project implementation responsibilities of the PCU will include:
(a)    follow-up and preparation of semi-annual reports on the progress of project imple-
mentation;
(b)    coordination of the activities of concerned agencies, contractors and consultants, in
order to ensure consistent and timely implementation of the project;
(c)    monitoring of the procurement and the disbursement of goods and services purchased
for the project in close collaboration with CDR (see below);
(d)    provision of other management and administrative services as may be necessary for
the successful implementation of the project; and
(e)    coordination with CDR and the World Bank on the status of the loan, submission of
the required documentation to the World Bank, requisition of further replenishment of
the Special Account.
C.    Job Description of Principal PCU Staff
4.           Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator will be a university graduate with
extensive experience in management and administration. Post-graduate training in public health is
desirable. The Project Coordinator will need to be well acquainted with public administration in
general and with the institutional setup of MOH in particular. Experience in the implementation of
development projects is preferable. Fluency in English or French is required.



Annex H
Page 2 of 3
5.            The Project Coordinator will be responsible for the supervision and coordination of all
project activities and the implementation of all project components. As such, she or he will be
responsible for the administration of financial resources for the project, including the monitoring of
project accounts and costs. The project coordinator will report to the Director General of MOH and,
through him, to the Minister of Health. The Project Coordinator will supervise the activities of all
PCU staff. In particular, the Project Coordinator will:
-      assist MOH in finalizing project preparation;
-      supervise all procurement activities (i.e., the procurement of works, goods, and
consulting services) under the project;
-      monitor project performance;
-     ensure the timely preparation and submission of progress reports to the General
Director of Health and the Bank, including mid-term reviews and project completion
reports; and
-     coordinate with the Bank and make the necessary arrangements for Bank supervision
missions.
6.            Project Accountant. The Project Accountant should have a university degree in
accounting. He or she should be well acquainted with public administration. Experience in the
implementation of development projects is preferable. Fluency in English or French is required.
7.            The Project Accountant will be responsible for the supervision of all project accounts.
As such, he will be responsible for the administration of financial resources for the project, including
the monitoring of project accounts and costs under the supervision of the Project Manager. In
particular, he or she will:
-      assist MOH in finalizing project preparation, especially on matters related to
procurement, disbursement, audits and accounts;
-      ensure the timely preparation and submission of disbursement applications to the
Bank; and
-     maintain separate annual audits of project accounts.
8.            Computer Expert. The Computer Expert will:
-      assist in procuring and installing computerized equipment;
-     develop appropriate programs for the project (e.g., health care delivery system and
health information data base); and
-      coordinate MOH resources with respect to office technology.
9.            Civil Works Engineer.  The Civil Works Engineer should have a degree in civil
engineering or in architecture. He or she should have experience in supervising and implementing
construction projects in Lebanon. Experience in both the public and the private sector would be
preferable. He or she should be familiar with government procedures and regulations and the
planning of construction programs. He or she should also be familiar with the procurement and
costing of goods and works. A good command of English or French is preferable.



Annex H
Pare 3 of 3
10.           The Civil Works Engineer will be responsible for all activities under the project that
are related to physical infrastructure. These activities will include:
-      review and evaluation of construction documents;
-      bidding processes and the award of contracts;
-      building construction including civil, mechanical (e.g., plumbing and HVAC) and
electrical works; and
-      building reception upon completion.
11.          In assuming the above responsibilities, the Civil Works Engineer will coordinate with
MOH representatives in the Mohafazat as well as with the consulting architects and engineers
involved in the project. He or she will assist the Project Manager in facilitating supervision missions
conducted by Bank staff.
12.           Procurement Specialist (international consultant). The Procurement Specialist will be
responsible for monitoring all procurement activities under the project. As such, he or she will work
in close collaboration with CDR and advise MOH staff when necessary. A key role of the
Procurement Specialist will be to provide on-the-job training in procurement to MOH staff.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1995              i9s               19s7 te                              isg               2900              2001
ID    Name                          Q1Q2Q3Q4  Q1 IQ2la3l04  Q1 IQ21031Q4  Ql1 020Q3104 Q1 IQ2lQ3lQ4 Q01021 03 Q4 Q1  02lQ3lQ4
1    Part A-institutional Component
2
3        Project Coordination Unit
4            Establish PCU
5            Appoint PCU staff
6            Planning & Progranmin
7            Lease office apace
a            Procure off. *q.& Fum.
9            Local Tech. Assist.
10           Int'l. Tech. Assist.
1 1           PCU in pl=e
12
13        Adrniistr.& Mgt. functions
14            Appoint key addt'l. as
15            Planning & progranvinn
16            Lea" office space
17            Procure eq. & fum.
18            Local Tech. A"sit.
19           Int'l. Tech. Assist.
20            Doeign & devd functio
21            Training & felowstips
22            Functions performence
23
24        Planning & Norm. Functions
25            Appoint Key addt'i staf
26            Planning & prograntrin
Project: Lebnon HoWth Rehab.        Crcai_3 Progress                                             Summary 1
Dato 11/23/94             ~~~~Noncritica   _       -        ib tono                     Rollbd UpOO 
Page 1



1995              199i             1597               19.               ING               2000              200I1
ID    Name                          010  Q2 Q3   Q4                    Q   Q2 0Q3  Q4 01  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4 01 2 304
27            Lease office space        1
28            Procure eq. & furn. 
29            Local Tech. Assist.
30           Int'l Tech. Assist.
31            Design & Dev. of Funct
32            Training & fellowshps 
33            Functions perfornance
34
35        Hedth Care Financing
36            Appoint Key addt'l staf
37            Planning & progrmnin 
38            Lanse office space
39            Procure eq. & fumr.
40            Loca Tech. Asgist.
41           Int'l Tech. Asist.
42            Design & dev. function
43            Training & fellowships
44            Functions perforrmane
45
46   WS hAd -Term review
47
48    Part B-Improve Health Car Del
49
50        Public Hadth Centers
51            Planning & progranrin
52           Training
Project: Lebanon Hdth Rehab.       Critical=                      Progre"                       Sumn-ry tP   2
Date: 11/23/94                     Noncritied    _P Mlestor   *                                 Rollbd Up                                                    _
Page 2



_95 1             199Sm 197                            1S9o                                                  21          _
ID    Name                          Q1  Q2    3   0401 2 3  Q4 1 Q    Q20 03 0 Q4   1 203   Q4 Q01 02 0 Q3 0 Q4  Q1   Q2  Q3   Q4  1 2 3 Q4
53            Constr./Rehabilitation
54                Hedth Ctr. Group                              M
55                Heath Ctr. Group
58                Health Ctr. Group
57                Health Ctr. Group
58            Proc. of Equip. & Furn.
59
60        Private Health Centera
61            Panning & programrnin
62            Training
63            Proc. of Eq. & Fum.
64
65        Public Hospitala
66            Planning & Progrmmmin
67            Tech. A"taence
68            Constr./Rehabilitation
69                Hoap. Group 1
70                Hoop. Group 2
71                Hoop. Group 3
72                Proc. of Eq. & Fur
Project:Lebanon Health Rehab.    |Cri6cel         _       _        Progress                      Summary P   3
Data: 11/23/94                  |Noncritical    _          _ ----   ilestone                     Rolled Up  o                                               w
Peae 3



Annex J
Page 1 of 3
TABLE J. 1: PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
_      Procurement Package         Estimated      Method of         Preparation     Issue of   Bid                Contract     Delivery/
Value         Procurement       of Bid           Bid        Evaluation/       Award        Occupancy
US$'000                         Documents/       Docs/      Proposal
TOR              RFP       Evaluation
Technical Assistance
I      Administrative
Structure& Procedures
Consultants                   222       Consulting        Feb-95           Mar-95    Jul-95             Aug-95       Jun-97
Training                      170       Services
2      Health Information System
Consultants
Training                      677       Consulting         Feb-95          Mar-95    Jul-95              Aug-95       Jun-97
368      Services
3      Hospital Management
Consultants                   447       Consulting         Feb-95          Mar-95    Jul-95              Aug-95       Jun-97
Training                       121      Services
4      Health Centers MRt.
Consultants                     14      Consulting        Feb-95           Mar-95    Jul-95              Aug-95       Jun-97
Training                       138      Services
5      Estalishment of 'carte
sanitaire'
Consultants                   338       Consulting        Mar-95           Apr-95    Aug-95              Sept-95      Sep-97
Training                        17      Services
6      Development of
Health Services
Consultants                    192      Consulting        Mar-95            Apr-95    Aug-95             Sept-95      Sep-97
Training                       41       Services
7      Health Care Financing
Consultants                   616       Consulting        Mar-95           Apr-95    Aug-95              Sept-95      Oct-97
Training                      601       Services
8      Proiect Coordinating
Unit                                      Consulting        Jan-95            Feb-95    Jun-95             Jul-95       Mar-95
Consultants                 1,307       Services
9      Hospitals TA & TrL.
Consultants                 1,498       Consulting        Dec-95           Jan-96     May-96            Jul-96       Oct-97
Training                     921       Services
10     Public Health Ctr. TA                     Consulting         Nov-95           Dec-95    Apr-96             May-96       Sep-97
Training                      381       Services
11     Private Health Ctr. TA                     Consulting        Dec-95           Jan-95     May-96            Jun-96       Sep-97
Training                      770       Services
Sub-Total Technical            5311
Assistance-Consultant          3,529
Training                       3,5



Annex J
Page 2 of 3
Table J. 1: Procurement Schedule
(continued)
F   | Procurement Package         Estimated     Method of         Preparation     Issue of   Bid              Contract     Deliveryv
Value         Procurement      of Bid           Bid       Evaluation/       Award       Occupancy
US$'000                        Documents!       Docs/     Proposal
TOR             RFP       Evaluation
Eglupment
I     Institutional Strengthening     223       ICB, Local       Feb-95           Mar-95    July-95           Aug-95       Feb-96
223      Shopping
2      Hospital Non-Medical          1007       ICB, Local        Feb-97          Mar-97    Jun-97            July-97      Sep-98
Shopping
3      Health Centers                  142      ICB, Local        Aug-96          Sept-96   Jan-97            Feb-97       Mar-98
Non-Medical Equip.                       Shopping
Sub-Total Non-Medical
Equipment                     1,372                                                   ________
4      Hospital Medical                         ICB,
Equipment                     7,820      Intemational      Feb-97          Mar-97    Jun-97            Jul-97       Sep-98
7|820      Shopping
5      Health Centers Medical                   ICB,
Equipment                     1,360       ntemational      Aug-96          Sept-96   Jan-97            Feb-97       Mar-98
130  Shopping
Sub-Total Medical             9,180
Equipment
Furniture
| Institutional Strengthening                   ICB, Local       Feb-95           Mar-95    July-95           Aug-95       Feb-96
278      Shopping
2      Hospital Fumiture             1,395      ICB, Local        Feb-97          Mar-97   Jun-97             Jul-97       Sept-98
1,395      Shopping
3      Health Centers Fumiture                  ICB, Local        Aug-96          Sept-96   Jan-97            Feb-97       Mar-98
468      Shopping
Sub-Total Furniture          2,141
Vehicles
I     Institutional Strengthening                                Feb-95           Mar-95    July-95           Aug-95       Feb-96
449      ICB
2      Hospital Vehicles              643       ICB               Feb-97          Mar-97    Jun-97            Jul-97       July-98
3      Health Centers Veh.           1,062      ICB               Aug-96          Sept-96   Jan-97            Feb-97       Mar-98
Sub-Total Vehicles           2,154



Annex J
Page 3 of 3
Table J. 1: Procurement Schedule
(continued)
4       Procurement Package        Estimated      Method of         Preparation      Issue of   Bid               Contract     Delivery/
Value         Procurement       of Bid           Bid        Evaluation/       Award        Occupancy
US$'000                         Documents/       Docs/      Proposal
TOR              RFP       Evaluation
r     SUDPIieS
1      Medical Supplies                          ICB,               Aug-96           Sept-96    Jan-97            Feb-97       Mar-98
Public Health Centers             72      Intemational
872      Shopping
2      Medical Supplies                           ICB,              Aug-96           Sept-96    Jan-97            Feb-97       Mar-98
Private Health Centers                    Intemational
1,693      Shopping
Sub-Total Medical and
Other Supplies                 2,565
Civil Works
I      Baalbek Hospital               1,337      ICB                Apr-96           May-96    Sept-96            Oct-96       Jan-98
Zahle Hospital                 1,247
2      Batroun Hospital               1,274       ICB               Jan-96           Feb-95    Jun-96             Jul-96       Sep-97
3      Sour Hospital                  1,657       ICB               Apr-96           May-96    Sept-96            Oct-96       Jan-98
4      Tripoli Hospital               3,376       ICB/LCB           July-96          Aug-96    Dec -96            Jan-97       Apr-98
5      Dahr El Bachek Hospital                                      July-96          Aug-96    Dec -96            Jan-97       Apr-98
904       LCB
6      Minia, Orange Nassu &            652       LCB               Jan-96           Feb-96    Jun-96             July-96      Mar-97
Bchefi
7      Beit Eddine & Tyr                244       LCB               Mar-96           Apr-96    Aug-96             Sept-96      Jun-97
8      Tamliss, Chwaifat &              245       LCB               May-96           Jun-96     Oct-96            Nov-96       Sep-97
Hammana
9      Deir El Ahmar & Hermel           236       LCB               Jul-96           Aug-96    Dec-96             Jan-97       Nov-97
Sub-Total Civil Works
11, 173



Annex K
Page 1 of 1
TABLE K.1: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING AND FELLOWSHIPS
Staff-Month Equivalent'
Technical Assistance (TA)             Local       Fellow-
Project Component          Activity/Specialization                                                 Training       ship
TA for Institutional   TA for Project
Development/         Implementation
Capacity Building
Intl.     Local      Intl.  J  Local
PART A
Administrative Structure    Public Administration
and Procedures              Management                       2         36                                 92          16
Financial Analysis/             2
Accounting
Health Information System    Public Health Specialist
Statistics                      8       Ioo2                                210          40
Epidemiology
Health Center               Public Health                   --          3                                100           9
Management                  IEC/Training
Hospital Management         Hospital Administration
Hospital Equipment             11        363                                 72           9
Management of Medical
Supplies                                                                                        l
Carte Sanitaire             Public Health
Demography                      9         24                                              --
Architecture/Engineering
Health Services Planning    Public Health                    6          9                                              6
Architecture/Engineering                         ._ _
Health Care Costs           Health Economics
Containment                 Accounting                       6        184                                168          17
Computer Literacy               6
Hospital Administration
Health Care Reform          Health Care Financing
Public Health
Financial Analysis             10         27                                252          25
Statistics
Social Sciences
PART B
Rehabilitation of Health    Architecture/Engineering                                        151
Centers (public & private)
Rehabilitation of Public    Architecture/Engineering                                         29
Hospitals                                                                                    29
TOTAL                     |                             152        |253            -     li180    |   894    1 122
1/ The breakdown by Activity/Specialization will be worked out by MOH early during project implementation (Part A: planning and programming phase).
2/ Collaborative arrangement within the AUB is anticipated.
3/ Collaborative arrangement with the Lebanese University is anticipated.
41 The use of MedNet, a private health insurances' management firm, is anticipated.



Annex L
Page 1 of 1
TABLE L.1: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year       During Semester          Cumulative      |        %  of
and Semester          Disbursement          Disbursement            Total Credit
Ending                                                                           ll
1995
June 30, 1995                  1.6                    1.6                    0
1996
December 31, 1995              2.0                   3.6                    10
June 30, 1996                  2.8                   6.4                    18
1997
December 31, 1996              2.5                    8.9                   25
June 30, 1997                  6.1                   15.0                   42
1998
December 31, 1997              2.9                   17.9                   50
June 30, 1998                  5.3                   23.2                   65
1999
December 31, 1998              2.5                   25.7                   72
June 30, 1999                  4.6                   30.3                   85
2000
December 31, 1999              1.8                   32.1                   90
June 30, 2000                  1.8                   33.9                   95
2001
December 31, 2000              1.8                   35.7                   100



Annex M
Page 1 of 2
TABLE M.A: ESTIMATED INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS RESULTING FROM THE PROJECT
(Billion LLY )2
F9952           FY19           FY1997          FY1998          FY199          FY2000
COMPONENT A
Additional Staff (salaries)    1,608           1,608           1,608          1,608           1,608          1,608
Office Operation                 318             477            796           1,035           1,273          1,592
Materials/Supplies                64             95             159             207             255            318
Misc./Overhead                   199            218             256             285             314            352
SUBTOTAL                       2,189           2,399          2,819           3,134           3,449          3,870
PUBLIC HEALTH
CENTERS
Building Maintenance               0               0              9              14              17
Equipment Maintenance              0               0              16             18              20             22
Misc./Overhead                     0               0               3              3               4              4
SUBTOTAL                           0               0             28              35              40             45
PRIVATE HEALTH
CENTERS
Euipment Maintenance               0               0              6               6               7              8
Misc/.Overhead                     0               0               1              1               1              l
SUBTOTAL                           0               0               6              7               8              8
COMPONENT B
HOSPITALS
Medical Doctor                     0             53             128             204             302            415
Paramedical Personnel              0             54             172             310             456            637
Non-medical Personnel              0             110            291             497             714            972
Building Maintenance               0               0             79             137             189            241
Equipment Maintenance              0              0             139             279             418            557
Medical Supplies                   0               0            322             523             771          1,213
Misc./Overhead                     0             22             113             195             285           403
SUBTOTAL                           0            240            1,244          2,144           3,134          4,438
GRAND TOTAL                                       |    2,189           2,640           4,097           5,320           6,631          8,360
l  eschanye roe SI = LLI .675
2 due to rouningdir goff ta csl omay nor appar to equal sum of componems
3 refers to government fiscal years



Annex M
Page 2 of 2
Budgetary Impact of Project Incremental Cost on MOH Recurrent Expenditures
(in LL billion unless stated)
1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000
Nomimal gov current non-interest exp /1     2535       2697       2896        3096       3345        3510       3716
Real gov current non-interest exp           2535       2497       2530        2576       2675       2740        2829
GDP Index (1994 = 100) /I                    100        108         114        120        125         128        131
MOH recurrent expenditures                   124
Nominal proj incremental recurrent exp                   2.2        2.6        4.1         5.3        6.6        8.4
Real proj incremental recurrent exp                      2.0        2.3        3.4         4.3        5.2        6.4
MOH/Gov cur non-interest exp (%)             4.9
Scenario I: MOH recurrent exp (excluding incremental recurrent costs) remain at constant share of gov non-interest cur exp at 1994 1
Nominal MOH exp without project              124        132         141        151        163         171        181
Real MOH exp without project                 124        122         123        126        130         134        138
Nominal MOH exp with project              _              134        144        155         168        178        190
Real MOH exp with project                               124         126        129        135         139        144
Share of MOH exp with project in
gov non-interest recurrent exp (%)                     5.0         5.0        5.0        5.0         5.1        5.1
Scenario II: Real MOH current exp (exci incremental recurrent costs) remain constant at 1994 level
Real MOH exp without project                 124        124         124        124        124         124        124
Nominal MOH exp without project              124        134         142        149        155         158        162
Nominal MOH exp with project                 124        136         144        152         159        164        169
Share of MOH exp without project in
gov non-interest recurrent exp (%)          4.9        4.6         4.3        4.0         3.7        3.5        3.3
Share of MOH exp with project in
gov non-interest recurrent exp (%)          4.9        5.0         5.0        4.9        4.7         4.7        4.5
1/ World Bank staff projections (MN2CO), September 10, 1994.



Annex N
Page 1 of 11
PROPOSED MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS AND
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Except for the six hospitals and about half of the health centers to be rehabilitated under
Part B of the project (where extensive surveys were carried out by MOH and Bank staff, as part
of project preparation), there is no reliable baseline data, either on the performance of health care
providers or on health conditions in various parts of the country. Furthermore, the current
institutional capacity of MOH does not enable such data to be developed.
Several activities under the institutional component of the project will directly address the
problem of lack of data. The institutional capacity of MOH will be significantly strengthened
within months after the project is declared effective and suitable monitoring and evaluation
indicators are expected to be in place within one year of loan effectiveness.
The following indicators were identified and agreed on during project preparation and will
serve as a guide to MOH staff concerned. These indicators fall into two categories: (i)
monitoring indicators (i.e., input and process indicators) which will be used to track project
activities against the tentative implementation schedule (see Annex I); and (ii) evaluation
indicators (i.e., output indicators and, to a lesser extent, impact indicators) which will be used to
assess the benefits resulting from the project against the objectives.
The proposed project indicators are summarized in the following tables:
Table N. 1: Process Indicators (Part A and Part B)
Table N.2: Output Indicators for Part A
Table N.3: Output Indicators for Part B
Table N.4: Impact Indicators



Table N.1: Process Indicators
PART A: INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT
Task/Activity    Existing Conditions (July 1994)                 By Mid-Term Review                               By Proposed/Project Completion
Administrative   - Ministry's managerial positions vacant.       - Key managerial positions filled.               - All administrative staff in place.
structures      - Shortage of experienced personnel.             - Long term local consultants & foreign experts in    - Long-term local consultants incorporated as
and procedures  - Inadequate procedures regarding budgeting and  place, training of MOH staff underway.           MOH staff.
of MOH          accounting.                                      - Establishment of budgeting and accounting      - Required training completed.
- Outdated office technology                     system.                                          - Established guidelines and procedures for
- Office technology program developed.           budgeting and  accounting, personnel
- introduce new system to control the allocation and  management (including recruitment and
utilization of resources.                        deployment) and management of supplies
- One out of three contract staff incorporated into    (including procurement,storage and distribution)
MOH.                                             being implemented.
- Three out of three contract staff incorporated
into MOH.
Developing and  - Limited information available on number and    - Establishment of information system for health  - Regular use by medical staff of standard forms
establishing    qualifications of private practitioners (including  service providers. Training of staff underway.  for medical records at hospitals and health
a National      registration and licensing of physicians).       - Development of referral system.                centers.
Health          - Referral system absent between primary and     - Establishment of information system for data on    - Periodic data collection and analysis  of
Information     secondary levels of health care system.          utilization and coverage and on resources        hospital/HC activities and resource utilization.
System          - Lack of records management and coordination at   availability for Hospitals/HC and MOH and start    - Availability of data at MOH regarding resource
patient, hospital/health center and MOH level.  training staff on its application.                utilization and overall performance of public
- Limited coordination among Government agencies  - Establishment of sentinel network.            hospitals and HC.
and NGOs providing health care.                  - Two out of eight contract staff incorporated into    - Periodic assessment of the health conditions and
MOH.                                             health status of the population in the country.
- Eight our of eight contract staff hired by MOH
permanently.
Strengthening    - limited essential public health and clinical services. - Standard package of essential public health and  - Technical guidelines for health personnel
the Manage-    - Emphasis on individual and curative care rather    clinical services being offered at all HC under the   implemented.
ment of Health  than preventive care.                            project.                                         - In- service training for primary health staff
Centers.        - Lack of relevant training for permanent staff.  - Technical guidelines for health personnel     completed.
- No contractual agreement between MOH and       developed.                                       - MOH able to monitor all public and NGOs
NGOs providing health services.                  - In-service training underway.                  health centers.
- Contractual agreement in place.                - Accountability for all resources and supplies.
- Develop monitoring system for the delivery of  - Four out of four contract staff hired by MOH on
services.                                        a permanent basis.
- One out of four contract staff hired by MOH on a
permanent basis.
IO >
t'i



Table N.1: Process Indicators
(continued)
Task/Activity    Existing Conditions                                Mid-Term Review                                     Proposed/Project Completion
Strengthening    - Quality and range of services delivered has      - Finalize Medical program to be offered at each   - Renovation of facilities based on Master Plan
the Manage-     diminished due to the lack of equipment and         hospital and completion of Master Plan for the     and Medical Program.
ment of Public  adequate facilities.                                renovation of facilities for minimal interruption of    - Budgeting and Accounting system in use.
Hospitals       - Lack of coordination with HC as part of referral   services.                                         - Accurate monitoring of supplies.
system.                                            - Develop management system for budgeting and       - Budget allocation for maintenance and repairs.
- Limited management regarding budgeting and       accounting and resources inventory. In-service      - In-service training completed.
accounting, supplies and personnel.                training for user staff.                            - MOH to have permanently recruited all three out
- No maintenance program for building and          - Develop maintenance program for the               of three contract staff.
equipment.                                         repair/replacement of Bldg. and equipment.
- One out of three contract staff incorporated into
MOH.
Establishing a   - Limited information on existing health facilities,    - Develop system for the monitoring of all health  - System for inventory all health facilities in
.carte          their location, condition and services provided.    facilities in the country.                         place.
sanitaire" of   - Lack of information on population served and      - Completion of situation analysis regarding the    - Incorporation of information from the "carte
the country     medical services providers; their distribution and  development of health services in the country.     sanitaire" in regular systems for allocation of
specialties.                                       - Develop registry of all health service providers.    sector resources.
- One out of three contract staff hired by MOH.    - Complete registry of all health service providers.
- Three out of three contract staff hired.
Planning for    - No information on number of facilities required to  - Prepare altemative scenarios for delivering     - Completion of alternative scenarios.
further         cover the whole population and their projected      essential public health and clinical services.     - Submit to the Bank a concept paper on the
develop-        distribution and types of services.                 - Prepare a health services development strategy    development of health services in the country.
ment of health                                                      paper.                                              - Three out of three contract staff hired by MOH
services.                                                                                                              permanently.
Containing cost - Lack of adequate means to track down percentage   - Develop a standard and computerized patient       - Complete admissions and billing system and
of MOH          of MOH budget destined to cover expenses at         admission and billing system                       training for system users.
expenditure for  private hospitals under contract.                    at private hospitals under MOH's contract.        - Implement measures to control identified
private         - No tariff system or treatment profile established.    - Identify major sources of expenditures for   expenditures in the private sector.
services.                                                           purchased services from the private sector.        - Complete treatment profiles and implement tariff
- Establish treatment profiles and tariff system for a  system.
substantial part of these services.                - Six out of six contract staff hired by MOH.
Reform in       - Limited information on MOH expenditures and the  - Develop studies which aim at preparing reform in   - Submit to Bank final studies and
Health Care     effect of MOH spending pattern on equity, cost-     Health Care Financing.                              recommendations.
Sector          effectiveness in health care delivery.              - Two out of eight contract staff hired by MOH      - Ten out of ten additional contract staff to join    C
Financing       - No surveys taken on the consumption of health     permanently                                        the MOH.
care, sources of financing, providers and                                                                                                                       CD><
beneficiaries.                                                                                                                                               _



Table N.1: Process Indicators
(continued)
PART B: IMPROVING HEALTH CARE DELIVERY
Rehabilitation    - Existing HC provide the needed health services for - Defined catchment areas and health services to be  - Health centers operating and offering services
of Public       the population in the area of their location.    offered.                                         according to the agreed health package.
Health Centers   - Bldg. space is adequate, but they lack a      - Finalize program for Bldg. renovation,         - Construction substantially complete
maintenance program.                             construction documents and award contract        - Equipment delivered and installed.
- Limited in-service training for health care staff.   for construction.                         - Staff training on management and use of
- Equipment not tailored to the health service   - Finalize equipment list, coordinated with the  equipment completed.
program offered, and what is existing is in need of   medical program and start procurement.
repair or replacement.                           - In-service training for HC staff underway.
- Develop a maintenance program for Bldg. and
Equip.
Rehabilitation    - NGO run Health Centers serve a large segment of  - Contractual agreement between government and    - NGO Health Center functioning as agreed under
of Private     the population.                                   selected NGOs in place.                          contractual agreement with MOH.
Health Centers. - No collaboration between Government and private  - Finalize list of supplies and equipment needed to    - Supplies and equipment delivered and installed.
health centers.                                  operate,and start procurement.                   - Training completed and staff operating
- Financial support from international community  - Training on management guidelines agreed with    equipment.
has been reduced.                                MOH, and training on running of equipment        - Set allocations for maintenance program.
- Cost recovery mechanisms are inadequate.       underway.
- No budget for maintenance and repairs          - Develop maintenance program.
Rehabilitation   - Hospitals selected have been operating on a semi-  - Completion of Medical Program being offered at   - Medical Program agreed operating in all six
of Referral     autonomous basis for more than 10 years.         each hospital and coordinated with the Master Plan   hospitals.
Hospital        - Demand for their services exists in the areas of    for facilities renovation.                  - Construction substantially complete, according to
their location. Avg. occupancy is 44%.           - Completion of construction documents and award   defned stages.
- Services provided are limited by their condition of  of contract for the start of construction.  -Equipment delivered and installed after
the facilities and the lack or need of repair of the    - Finalize equipment list and start procurement.  acceptance of renovated facilities.
existing equipment.                              - Determine supply needs and start procurement.  - System of inventory of supplies in place.
- All six hospitals have a key role as referral entities - Training of hospital staff underway.   - Training of all hospital staff completed.
for both public and private health centers.      - Develop maintenance program for building and   - Budget allocations for maintenance program
- Limited staff training in budgeting, accounting,    equipment.                                  defined.
hospital administration and operation of equipment.
IQ



Table N.2: Output Indicators for Part A
Proied Componnt                               Preiect Actrntv                        1    me Forme                             Output Indicators                        |     et        O
Adminidrative and
IMa-geriall
Functions of MOH
Improving the         - establishment of improved budgeting and accounting system         December    - regular use of computerized systems, and well-defined guidelines and    semi-annually,
administrative                                                                               1998       procedures for budgeting and accounting, at the six hospitals included    starting June
structure and                                                                                           in the project.                                                    1999
proredures of MOH
- establishment of improved system for management of supplies and                 - regular use of computerized systems, and well-defined guidelines and
equipment                                                                         procedures for management of supplies (including procurement, storage
and distribution), at the six hospitals included in the project .
- establishment of improved system for personnel management                       - regular use of computerized systems, and well-defuied guidelines and
procedures for personnel management (including recutitment and
redeployment), at the six hospitals included in the project .
Developint and        - establishment of information system for service providers at six  December    - regular use by medical personnel of standard forms for medical     semi-annually,
establishing a        hospitals                                                              1998       records at the six hospitals included in the project               starting June
national health                                                                                                                                                            1999
information system
- establishment of information system for hospital adminisutors     June 1998     - regular data coUection and analysis of hospital activities and resource
utlization at six public hospitals + production of monthly activity
reports
- establishment of information system for hospital administrton at                - availability at central MOH of updated data on utlization of resources
cental MOH                                                                        and performance at all public hospitals                                            l
- esablishment of seninel network                                   December    - periodic assessment of the health conditions and health status of the  semi-annually,
1996       population in the counuy and production of quarterly reports on    starfing June
specific health conditions.                                       1997
I/ see also implemenation schedule (Annex I)                                                                                                                             z



Table N.2: Output Indicators for Part A
(continued)
Project Component                           Project Activity                         Tijme Frame |                         Output Indcators                       J Time Frame or
for                                                                         fre u      f  
_                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Completion'                                                         recordn
Strengthening the    - development of an in-service program for primary health care    June 1997    - number of primary health care staff who have received in-service  semi-annually.
manaRement of        personnel                                                                      training regarding the standard package, by category.            starting January
health centers                                                                                                                                                       1998
- establishment of system to monitor quality and quantity of services          - proportion of health centers (30 in total) that have been supervised at
delivered at health centers.                                                  least 2 times during the past 3 months.
Strengthening the    - design and establishment of improved system for budgeting and   December    - use of computerized system for accounting, including billing, at six  continuous,
management of        accounting                                                          1996       hospitals                                                        starting June
ublic hositals1997
- design and establishment of improved system for operation and                - availability of well-defmed guidelines for repair and maintenance of
maintenance of buildings and equipment                                         equipment and building facilities + appropriate contractual agreements
with the private sector.
- design and establishment of improved system for the management of            - use of standard list of medical supplies, computerized inventory of
medical supplies                                                               stocks, and well defined guidelines for procurement.
- establishment of waining capacity in hospital management       June 1996    - number of hospital managerialUadministrative staff with a Masters  semi-annually,
degree in hospital management from the national facility.       starting
December 1998
Plnn gand
Normative
Functions in the
Sector
Development of                                                                         June 1996    - completion of situation analysis regarding the development of health    continuous,
planinin tools       - establishment of a carte sanitaire + the mechanism for periodic              services in the country                                          starting January
updating                                                                       - incorporation of information from the carte sanitaire in regular  1997
systems for allocations of sector resources
CD
2/ see also implementation schedule (Annex D)



Table N.2 Output Indicators for Part A
(continued)
Proiect Component                             Project Activity'                          Time Frame                            Output Indicators                          Time Frame or
forfruey 
Completion4
- submission to the Bank of a health services developmem strategy   December
paper on the development of health services in the country            1996
Health Care
Containing costs of   - establishment of a standardized and computerized system for       December    - proportion of private hospitals under contract with MOH that use   annually staiting
MOH expenditure       admission and billing of patients referred by MOH to private hospitals  1996      computerized billing system established by MOH                     June 1997
for private services
- analysis of cost and pricing of private services financed by MOH, and    December    - number of private hospitals under MOH contract that use standard  semi-annuaUy.
preparation of standard medical procedures and tariffs for patients   1997        procedures and tariff system established by MOH                   starting June
referred to private hospitals by MOH.                                                                                                               1998
Prevarinn reform in   - undertaking of the five studies which aim at preparing reform in  December    - implementation of approved plan for health sector financing reform
health sector         health care financing.                                                 1997
- submission to the Bank of the fial reports on the four studies
3/ The time frame for monitoring the process indicators corresponds to the project implementation schedule.
4/ see also implementation schedule (Annex I)



Table N.3: Output Indicators for Part B1
Proiect Component                                        Output Indicators                                       Base Line Data        Target Data at    Tareet Data at
and Activity                                                                                                 as of July 1994         Mid-Term               Proiect
Review            ComRletion
__                 _                                                                 (Dec.1997)           (Dec. 2000)
Rehabilitation of Ten   - number of monthly consultations (outpatients) per center                                          493                  590                1,000
Public Health
Centers                   - percent of health centers included in the project where both immunization and                  33%                  50%                 100%
pre-natal care are delivered on a regular basis
- percent of health centers included in the project where health education                       22%                  35%                  80%
activities are delivered on a regular basis
Rehabilitation of         - number of monthly consultations (outpatients), per center                                       845                 1,000               1,180
twenty Private                                                                                                                                                                 l
Hwealth Centers           - percent of health centers included in the project where both immunization and                  70%                   85%                100%
pre-natal care are delivered on a regular basis_
- percent of health centers included in the project where health education                       47%                  60%                 100%
activities are delivered on a regular basis
Rehabilitation of 6       - bed occupancy rate (monthly average)                                                             47                    55                   78
Front-line Referral
Hospitals                 - number of consultations at outpatient departments, per month                                    277                   330                 440
- number of surgical interventions, per month                                                     103                  130                  165
- number of admissions (inpatients): total number of outpatients, per month                       435                  500                  675
I/ Other indicators will be considered for inclusion in the evaluation system once MOH has the capability to establish baseline data, for example: the ratio between admissions at public hospitals and patients referred
by the six public hospitals to private hospitals; the number of patients referred to the six public hospitals by primary-level service providers; the number of children < 5 years old registered at MCH clinics held at
health centers; the number of tuberculosis patients under continuous monitoring/treatment by the health centers included in the project;
PO
IQI
00
Z



Table N.4: Project Evaluation; Impact Indicators
Impact Indicators            )_Target Date for establishment of Baseline Data J     Frequency of Measurement
Infant Mortality Rate                                       June 1997                            Annually, starting June 1998
Child Mortality Rate (1-5 years)
incidence of HIV, STD and Tuberculosis
Prevalence of anemia in pregnant women
Iz



Annex N
Page 10 of 11
Project Supervision Plan
Two supervision missions are planned per year (two weeks each), including 1995. For each week in the field,
there is an average of 1 1/2 weeks at headquarters for the purpose of mission preparation and follow-up activities.
The following expertise is expected to be required during project supervision: public health, management and
administration (including health information systems and health planning), procurement, project implementation
focussing on hardware components, and hospital management. Other expertise, such as in repair and maintenance of
medical equipment, may be occasionally required.
The project launch is tentatively scheduled to take place during April - June 1995, and the mid-term
evaluation in early 1998. A tentative supervision plan is provided in table M.1, below.
Table N.5: Tentative Supervision Plan and Expertise Required
Year &                  Expertise/responsibility         | Staffweeks    Staffweeks
mission #                                                 [   (field)        (HQ)
1995, Project   - Task Manager                                     1            2
Launch      - management/administration                         I             I
- procurement                                       1            0
- hospital architecture/engineering                 1            I
1995, #2     - Task Manager                                     2             3
- management/administration                        2             1
1996, #1     - Task Manager                                      2            3
- hospital architecture/engineering                2             1
1996, #2     - Task Manager                                      2            3
- management/administration                        2             1
1997, #1     - Task Manager                                     2             3
- procurement                                      1             1
1997, #2     - Task Manager                                      2            3
- management/administration                        2             1



Annex N
Page 11 of 11
Table N.5: Tentative Supervision Plan and Expertise Required
(continued)
Year &                   Expertise/responsibility         [ Staffweeks    Staffweeks
mission #                                                       (field)       (HQ)
1998, Mid-    - Task Manager                                       2             4
Term Review    - management/administration                          2             2
- hospital architecture/engineering                 2             2
1998, #2     - Task Manager                                      2             3
-procurement                                        I             I
1999, #1     - Task Manager                                      2             3
- hospital management                               2             1
1999, #2     - Task Manager                                      2             3
- management/administration                         I             0
2000, #1     - Task Manager                                      2             3
- hospital architecture/engineering                 I             1
2000, #2     - Task Manager                                      2             3
- hospital management                               2             I



Annex 0
Page 1 of 2
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILES
Background documents prepared by MOH:
"Primary Health Care Services, Volume I"
"Systeme d'Information - Task B"
"Task of the Ministry of Public Health"
"Program for Reduction of Infant and Childhood (1-4 Years) (Morbidity and Mortality)"
"Strategies for Family Health Program (Maternal and Child Health Care)"
"School Health Program Propositions for a National Health Policy & Action Plan"
"Strategies for Family Health Programs (Care of the Elderly)"
"Draft Contract between MOH and Selected NGOs"
"The Role of Government" Frederic Collomb, March 1994.
"Field assessment of the current situation at the hospitals in Baalbek, Batroun, Dahr-EI Basha, Sour,
Tripoli and Zahle" Daniel Puzin, Evelyn Villatoro, MOH Staff, December 1993 - March
1994.
"Health Sector Financing in Lebanon" Aleksandra Posarac, April 1994.
"Preliminary Assessment of the Health Sector in Lebanon; Mission du 21 Septembre au 5 Octobre
1993 au Liban" Dominique Jolly, September 1993.
"The Primary Health Care Strategy and PHC Plan of Action, 1993-1996, Lebanon" Dr. Farouk
Partow, April - July 1993
"The Hospital Situation in Lebanon; Mission du 28 Novembre au 8 Decembre 1993" Dominique
Jolly, December 21, 1993.
"Reconstruction of the Health Services of Lebanon" Report of the WHO/LRCS Health Assessment
and Planning Mission, February 6 - April 13, 1983.



Annex 0
Pa2e 2 of 2
"Recovery Planning for the Reconstruction and Development of Lebanon - Working Paper 29 -
Health Sector Strategy Briefing Paper" Dar Al-Handasah Consultants (Shair & Partners),
August 1992.
"Republic of Lebanon, Ministry of Health, National Health Strategy, Background Note on the
Organization of the Ministry" prepared for consideration by Interministerial Committee on
Administrative Organization and Parliamentary Commission on Health, December 1993.
Detailed Cost Tables
Mission Aide-Memoires with relevant background documents









35~30'                                     36                                           JO0
L E B A N O N
HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Med terro n eo         MILE
31-30'   ,                                                                               N'.; ;;'                                    31<30'
5Z    Hm g.l
A 5 III SHAMALNEAE MOIAAZIICAITL
p)~~~~~~~~~~~~~OENRI (MOHAFAZAT  ROUNDARIr
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
M e cl i          t  e r r o n e o n                                              I000 ,   ,0                                  o.b
~~34a00 lounle4) 5 X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ) lrBoulbe~~~~~16ck                                                    34 00'
BEIU                                                         AL Bf   
tg gC 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PUBLIC HEALIH CENTERS
5 0 t    d      o     )   _jzOn~~~~~~~~~~I, El Ah.o.         -    NTERNATIONAL HIGHWAYS
33-3']' o,  )                                                                                                         <              KohloW  RAILROADS  ]3330-
4   ~~~~<t:   9  /     </-/                              - ~~~~~~~~~~~WATERCOURSES
Z   ] y     H .            -                             *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
<  > 5        zJ                              o   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECIED CITIES
,<    A L eJA N lJ B,              r                                           GREATER BEIRUT
Ty'. t      ';                   <      %                                                   GOVERNERATE jMC)HAFAZAT) BOUNDARIES
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I  'N .                                              Th   I 84~
a    ;             r-       ]~~~~~~~~~~~5 30o                                                                     3_ 30



