Page  1
September 11, 2000
H.E. Mr. Georges Corm
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beirut, Lebanon
Re:
Loan 3829 LE (Health Sector Rehabilitation Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the above-referenced Loan Agreement between the Lebanese Republic 
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank), dated March 7, 1995 (the Loan Agreement), as amended. We also refer to the 
Borrower’s request, dated July 12, 2000, to: (a) reallocate funds in the table of 
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement; (b) establish a second special account; (c) increase 
the percentage of expenditures of Categories 4 and 5 in the table of Schedule 1 to the 
Loan Agreement; and (d) modify the definition of "Incremental Operating Costs."
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank accedes to your request.  
Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
1.
Definition (i) under Section 1.02 is amended as follows:
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement."
2.
Under Section 2.02 Sub-Paragraph (b) is amended as follows:
"The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special deposit accounts, the first (Special Account A) in respect 
of 
Categories (1), (2) and (3) and the second (Special Account B) in respect 
of Categories (4) and (5), in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement."
3.
Section 2.08 is amended as follows:
"For the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions: (a) CDR is designated as representative of the 
Borrower in respect of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1), (2) and (3); (b) MOH is designated as representative of the 
Borrower in respect of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Categories (4) and (5)."
4.
Under Article 3, all references to "Special Account" shall be replaced by 
"Special Accounts."
5.
The table in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement shall be amended to read as set 
forth in the attachment to the Amendment Letter.
6.
Sub-Paragraph 2 (c) under Schedule 1 is amended as follows:
"the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means communication expenses, 
office supplies, rent, utilities, local transportation charges and vehicles 
insurance and maintenance."
7.
Part A.1. under Schedule 5 is amended as follows:
"MOH shall: (a) have overall responsibility for the implementation of 
the Project; and (b) be responsible for the procurement of consultants."
8.
Part A.3. under Schedule 5 is amended as follows:
Page  2
"MOH shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with CDR 
pursuant to which CDR shall be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for all 
matters related to the procurement process for works and goods, and withdrawal 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) 
and (3)."
9.
Schedule 6 is amended as follows:
"SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
in respect of Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect of 
Special Account B to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $700,000 in respect of Special Account A and an amount equivalent 
to $300,000 in respect of Special Account B, until (i) in respect of Special Account A 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (1), 
(2) and (3) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions on account of the 
procurement of goods and works shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$2,000,000, and (ii) in respect of Special Account B, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (4) and (5) plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions on account of the procurement of consultants’ 
services shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
respective Special  Account  at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  3
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into either Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the expenditures to be financed under said 
Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
either Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
either Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in either Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. 
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder Sud
Director, Middle East Department
Page  4
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED:
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ George Corm
Authorized Representative
Date:
September 22, 2000
Attachment
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  11,300,000
80%
(2)
Equipment,
   9,800,000
100% of foreign
vehicles and
expenditures,
supplies
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% for other
items procured
locally
(3)
Furniture
      50,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(4)
Consultants'
   9,000,000
100% 
services and
training
(5)
Incremental
   2,000,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
   3,550,000
TOTAL
  35,700,000
