LOAN NUMBER 3829 LE
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated              0u11, 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3829 LE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              J              , 1995, between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
(b)   "CDR"  means   the   Council   for   Development   and
Reconstruction, a public authority established and operating


﻿-2-
pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 5 of the Borrower, dated January
31, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "Central Bank" meaas Banque du Liban, the Borrower's
central bank, operating p rsuant to the Money and Credit Law
promulgated by Decree No. 13513 of the Borrower, dated August 1,
1963, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "Joint Committee" means the committee established by the
Borrower on January 5, 1994, consisting of representatives of MOH
and CDR, whose objectives, inter alia, are to ensure coordination of
the procurement activities under the Project;
(e)   "NGOs" means non-governmental organizations;
(f)   "NGO Agreements" means those agreements entered into by
MOH and certain NGOs pursuant to each of which the NGO shall
perform, under the supervision of MOH, essential public health and
clinical services in consideration of the provision by MOH of
equipment and operational support to the NGO, and in-service
training to the staff thereof;
(g)   "Muhafaza" means an administrative division of th(i
Borrower;
(h)   "PCU" means   the Project coordination    unit  to be
maintained within MOH in accordance with the provisions of Section
A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty five million seven hundred thousand dollars
($35,700,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.


﻿- 3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.


﻿(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1; 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such dete as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a) Tha Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii)  'Quarter'  means  a   three-month  period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. CDR is hereby designated as representative of
the Borrower in respect of the Project for the purposes of taking,
on behalf of MOH, any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH
with due diligence and efficiency and in cunformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, technical, engineering, health and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)  Without   any  limitation  or   restriction  upon   the
provisions of paragraph (a) above, and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for the future
operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine (9) months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿- 7 -
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with  the   procedures  and  internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall (a) not later than April 15
of each year until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank,
for its review and comments, details of the proposed budgetary
allocations to be made, in the relevant budget or budgets of MOH and
MOH's agencies, in respect of the operation and maintenance of the
hospitals and other facilities to be rehabilitated under Part B of
the Project;
and (b)    thereafter, and taking into account the Bank's
comments on the aforementioned allocations, take all measures
necessary to ensure that budgetary allocations shall be made, in the
relevant budget or budgets of MOH and MOH's agencies, in amounts
sufficient to cover payment for (i) additional positions to be
gradually incorporated within MOH's staffing structure; and (ii)
operation and maintenance costs of the hospitals and other
facilities to be rehabilitated under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Termnination
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Beirut
Lebanese Republic
Telex:
923.235.13
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By                      bL6T           Ck
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By        //        (   ~        o   W   K   ~e
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                7,963,200        80%
(2) Equipment,                13,608,000        100% of foreign
vehicles and                                expenditures,
supplies                                    100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% for other
items procured
locally
(3) Furniture                  1,177,200        100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(4) Consultants'               6,373,600        100% of foreign
services and                                expenditures and
training                                    80% of local
expenditures


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Incremental                3,537,800        90%    prior    to
Operating Costs                             December 31, 1996,
60% from January
1, 1997, until
December 31, 1997,
and 30% from
January 1, 1998,
until December 31,
1998
(6) Unallocated                3,040,200
TOTAL                35,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means incremental
staff salaries under the Project, office rent and maintenance costs
of buildings and equipment.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures
for goods, works and services under contracts not exceeding $75,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to enable MOH to
effectively perform management and administrative functions that are
critical to the development of the Borrower's health sector; (ii) to
respond to unmet health needs of the poor groups of the population;
and (iii) in the long term, to improve health conditions countrywide
through better use and allocation of resources in the public and
private sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Carrying out an audit of the managerial practices and
administrative procedures within MOH with a view to introducing new
systems to monitor and control the allocation and utilization of
resources in the Borrower's health sector.
2.    Developing an information system for public hospitals and
other health facilities, and a network of health professionals to
monitor changes in health conditions and health status of the
population, with a view to establishing a national health
information system.
3.    Strengthening the management of health centers through (a) the
preparation of technical guidelines therefor; (b) the carrying out
of in-service training programs for the personnel thereof; and (c)
the development and implementation of a system to monitor health
service delivery at the health centers to be rehabilitated under
Part B.1 of the Project.
4.    Strengthening the management of public hospitals through the
improvement of hospitals' capabilities in the areas of (a) budgeting
and accounting; (b) preventive maintenance and repair of equipment;
(c) management of medical supplies; and (d) training in hospital
management.


﻿- 13 -
5.    Developing a countrywide inventory of health services (carte
sanitaire), including infrastructure, equipment and human resources,
and a data base on the volume and range of health care services
provided countrywide, and on the performance of the various health
care providers.
6.    Strengthening MOH's planning capabilities through (a) the
carrying out of a review of the type and number of health facilities
needed to respond to the needs of the population; (b) the
preparation of alternative options for the e fective delivery of
essential public health and clinical services countrywide; and (c)
the preparation of a health service development  lan.
7.    Rationalizing MOH's costs associated with services rendered by
privately-owned hospitals under contract with MOH through (a) the
establishment within MOH of a standardized and computerized
patients' admission and billing system to link MOH's operations with
those of the said hospitals; (b) the carrying out of a cost and
quality analysis of services purchased by MOH from the private
sector; and (c) the establishment of treatment profiles and a tariff
system for the above-mentioned services.
8.    Carrying out five studies designed to (a) review MOH's
expenditure patterns; (b) review existing cost recovery mechanisms
at public hospitals and health centers; (c) assess health care
consumption in the Borrower's country; (d) assess the feasibility of
introducing health maintenance organizations into the Borrower's
health care system; and (e) review alternative options for the
financing of the Borrower's health care system, all in preparation
for the reform of the Borrower's health sector financing system.
Part B:     Improvement of Health Care Delivery
1.    Rehabilitation of ten (10) public health centers in the
Muhafazas of North Lebanon, South Lebanon, Mount Lebanon, Nabatieh
and the Beka'a, provision of equipment, vehicles and furniture
therefor and training of the personnel thereof.
2.    Provision of equipment for twenty (20) health centers operated
by NGOs and training of the personnel thereof.


﻿- 14 -
3.    Rehabilitation  of public   hospitals   in  Tripoli, Zahle,
Baalbeck, Batroun, Dahr El-Bashek and Sour, provision of equipment,
vehicles and furniture therefor and training of the personnel
thereof.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1999                                    860,000.00
March 1, 2000                                        890,000.00
September 1, 2000                                    920,000.00
March 1, 2001                                        955,000.00
September 1, 2001                                    985,000.00
March 1, 2002                                      1,020,000.00
September 1, 2002                                  1,060,000.00
March 1, 2003                                      1,095,000.00
September 1, 2003                                  1,135,000.00
March 1, 2004                                      1,175,000.00
September 1, 2004                                  1,215,000.00
March 1, 2005                                      1,260,000.00
September 1, 2005                                  1,305,000.00
March 1, 2006                                      1,350,000.00
September 1, 2006                                  1,400,000.00
March 1, 2007                                      1,450,000.00
September 1, 2007                                  1,500,000.00
March 1, 2008                                      1,555,000.00
September 1, 2008                                  1,610,000.00
March 1, 2009                                      1,665,000.00
September 1, 2009                                  1,725,000.00
March 1, 2010                                      1,785,000.00
September 1, 2010                                  1,850,000.00
March 1, 2011                                      1,915,000.00
September 1, 2011                                  1,980,000.00
March 1, 2012                                      2,040,000.00
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of
prepayment    multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                         0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                         0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                           1.00
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance
with the following additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the 'id price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1
(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension
of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.


﻿- 18 -
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$1,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$4,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $600,000 or more, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 19 -
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of ten percent (10%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the


﻿- 20 -
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $120,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $60,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.    Project Implementation
1.    MOH shall have overall responsibility for the implementation
of the Project.
2.    MOH shall maintain a Project coordination unit, with staff
whose qualifications and terms of reference shall be acceptable to
the Bank, to assist MOH in carrying out its Project functions.
3.    MOH shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with
CDR pursuant to which CDR shall be responsible, on behalf of the
Borrower, for all matters related to the procurement process and
withdrawal of Loan proceeds under the Project.
4.     The Borrower   shall maintain   the Joint Committee with
responsibilities agreed upon with the Bank.
B.    Health Sector Financing Reform
1.    The Borrower, through MOH, shall, not later than June 30,
1997, prepare and furnish to-the Bank, for its review and comments,
the plan referred to under Part A.6 (c) of the Project, and shall,
following an exchange of views with the Bank with respect to said
plan, initiate all action necessary to implement such plan taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
2.    The Borrower, through MOH, shall, not later than December 31,
1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments,
a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, designed to implement the findings of the
studies referred to under Part A.8 of the Project, and shall,
following an exchange of views with the Bank with respect to said
plan, initiate all action necessary to carry out such plan taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
3.    The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1997,
establish an intersectoral committee, consisting, inter alia, of
senior officials of the Borrower, to monitor the implementation of
the plan referred to under paragraph 2 of this Section B.


﻿- 22 -
C.    NGO Agreements
The Borrower, through M0H, shall, not later than June 30,
1997, carry out and furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, an evaluation of each of the NGO Agreements, such
evaluation to include recommendations on future action with respect
thereto, all on the basis of criteria agreed upon. between the
Borrower and the Bank, and shall, following an exchange of views
with the Bank with respect to said recommendations, take all
necessary action to implement such recommendations taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
D.    Progress Reports
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower, through MOH, shall, not later than
January 31 and July 31 of each year until completion of the Project,
commencing January 31, 1996, prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, describing the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project.
E.    Mid-Term Review
1.    Without prejudice to the provisions of Section D of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1997,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing, on the
basis of indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank,
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
2.    The Borrower and the Bank shall carry out a mid-term review,
in the course of which they shall exchange views on the content of
the report referred to under paragraph 1 of this Section, and,
thereafter, the Borrower shall take all action which the Borrower
and the Bank shall have agreed is required for the attainment of the
objectives of the Project.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts determined
by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible expenditures during
the four months following the date of each such request, which
amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and


﻿- 24 -
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Bank
shall have determined to be so required.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
and other evidence required pursuant to para-
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.   All  such   deposits  shall   be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished


﻿- 25 -
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof n-t so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.


﻿- 26 -
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Dcvelopment.
FOR SECRETARY


