,RESTRICTED
Report No. p-777
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF T HE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND OF IRAN
UNDER THE GUARANTEE OF IRAN
January 28, 1970



REPORT AND REC011diKNDATIOZ OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE AGPICULTU-RAL DEVELOPK ENT FUND
OF IRAN UNDER THE GUARANTEE OF IRAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$6.5 million to
the Agricultural Development rund of Iran (ADFI). The loan would be used
to finance part of the foreign exchange component of ADFI's lend-ng program
for an estimated period of two years.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed loan would be the first financing provided by the
Bank for agricultural credit in Iran. 1DFI wfas established in 1968 to
encourage private investment in large-scale farming, livestock production,
agricultural processing and associated industries.  Largely through missions
and exchanges with the Government and the management of ADFI, the Bank has
been closely associated with its formation and develcpment as an institution.
3.        Negotiations took place in ?'ashington during the week beginning
October 6, 1969. The President of ADFI, Dr. Nasser Ameri, represented the
borrower, and Mr. E. Shapoorian, Financial Counselor of the Iranian Economic
Mission in Wlashington, represented the Governmen-t as guarantor.  Subsequent
discussions betwjeen Bank staff and responsible officials in Iran clarified
certain details.



- 2 -
4.        The proposed loan wiould be the Bank's fourteenth loan to Iran.
The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Iran as of December 31,
1969:
Amount (US$ Million)
Year     No.     Borrower         Purpose                Bank     Undisbursed
1957  160-IRN     Iran     General development           75.0         -
1959  227-IRbq    Iran     Road construction             72.0         -
1959  240-IRN     IMDBI    Assist private industry        5.0         -
1960  247-IRdN    Iran     Dez Multipurpose Project      42.0         -
1964  381-IRNq    Iran     Road construction             16.7         -
1965  410-IRN     Iran     Road construction             28.0        17.4
1965  411-IRN     Iran     Feeder Road constrLction       8.5         3.3
1965  422-IRN     I1IDBI   Assist private industry        9.8         -
1966  459-Inl     IMDBI    Assist private industry       24.8         1.0
1967  517-IRN     Iran     Ghazvin Project               22.0        18.7
1968  539-IRN     IMDBI    Assist private industry       25.0        16.4
1969  594-IRK     Iran     Dez Irrigation Project        30.0        29.9
1969  602-IRN     IPIDBI   Assist private industry       40.0        39.6
Total (less cancellations)           398.8
Of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                 125.2
Total now outstanding                273.6
Amount sold           22.0
Of wihich has
been repaid         20.5             1.5
Total now held by Bank               272.1
Total undisbursed                                 126.3
5.        Disbursements for some projects have been slow.   There have been
delays in the Ghazvin Agricultural Project (517-IR1q) but a supervision mission
noted improvements in project implementation. Disbursements on the Dez
Irrigation Project (594-IR1) have only recently begun. This project was
originally designed to promote improved small-scale, traditional farming and
develop some large-scale farming. It now appears that the Government has
decided to proceed with only large-scale farming in the Dez area. The full
implications of this change in policy cannot yet be assessed and further
information has been requested from Government. Disbursements on loans for
highwjays have also fallen behind schedule, but performance has recently
improved. Commitment of loans to IINDBI are somewhat ahead of schedule,
undisbursed amounts represent funds whl-ch have been committed, but which
have not yet been drawn down by IPIDBI clients.



- 3 -
6.        Further loans for projects in the fields of il lustry, power,
roads, education and telecommunications are under ccnsideration.
7.        IFC has so far invested in two companies in Iran.   A US$300,000
loan was extended in 1965 to Sherkat Sahlami Kahkashan, a manufacturer of
ceramic tiles. In 1967 a loan of US33 million was made for the Ahwaz Steel
Rolling Mill, together with an equity investment of US$800,000.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.    Borrower:                      Agricultural Development Fund of Iran.
Guarantor:                     Iran.
Amount:                        Various currencies equivalent to
USS6.5 million.
Purpose:                        To provide funds to enable AMIU to make loanE
for the development of large corimercial farmE
:nd for plants for packagin-g, preparation an(
storage of acriculturll products, and to pay
the foreign exchange cost of an advieor.
Amortization:                  Fifteen years, including four years of
grace, repayable in 22 equal semi-annual
repayments of principal and interest,
beginning on January 1, 1974 and ending
July 1, 1984.
Commitment Charge:             3/b4 of 1 percent per annum.
Interest Rate:                 7 percent per annum.
Economic Rate of Return:       17 percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A report entitled "Agricultural Development Fund of Iran" (PA-23a)
dated January 26, 1970, is attached.
10.       Agriculture in Iran accounts for about one-fourth of the gross
national product and employs about two-fifths of the labor force. During the
1960's agricultural production increased by about five percent per year even
though these were years of adjustment associated with the land reform program.
There is an acute need for credit, limited amounts have been available to
small farmers througil the Agricultural Bank of Iran, an institution associated
with the cooperative system and land reform.          Until the establishment



of ADFI, laiger farmers could obtain credit only in simall amounts at high
cost and on short term from commercial banks.
11.       ADFI was created in April 1968 as a part of the Government's effort
to accelerate the rate of increase in agricultural production by shifting the
emphasis of agricultural policy to greater support of the larger farming
units.  These are believed to be better able to make use of modern farming
techniques. Thus, ADFI complements already existing credit institutions by
providing larger farmers with medium and long-term credit facilities. It is
wholly Government owned. Its two governing bodies are the General Assembly,
a ministerial-level, policy-forming body and the High Council, the equivalent
of a board of directors, chaired by the Governor of the Central Bank. Day-to-
day operations and management are the responsibility of Dr. Nasser Ameri, the
President, who is also a member of the High Council.   An Executive Vice
President satisfactory to the Bank, will be appointed prior to signing of the
loan. The professional staff, although not yet experienced in agricultural
lending, appears to be well-qualified.   Several staff members have undergone
training at IBRD, and the Economic Development Institute has recently conducted
a course in Iran on project evaluation, primarily for ADFI personnel.
12.       ADFI has paid-up share capital of Rls.340 million (US$4.5 million)
and borrowers' deposits of about Rls.1 million (US$130,000). Under the terms
of the Guarantee Agreement the Government of Iran has agreed to provide funds
in the form of equity contributions to ADFI's share capital amounting to a
total of about Rls.l,000 million (US$13.2 million). Under its founding
statute ADFI has extensive borrowing powers, which amount to US$200 million
equivalent for foreign loans and Rls.5,000 million (US$66 million equivalent)
from resources within Iran.  Loans from the Government are to be at a rate of
interest three and one half percent lower than ADFI's current lending rate
and will be drawn upon when needed as a result of ADFI's own commitments and
disbursements. ADFI also has authority to borrow from commercial banks,
may issue tax-free bonds and accept time deposits (of at least two years) at a
rate of interest not exceeding seven percent per year. ADFI does not expect
to cover its costs in the first few years, but should be able to break even
within three or four years.
13.       The project is designed to help in the financing of the development
of commercial farms together with improvement of crop preparation, packaging
and storage. It comprises loans by ADFI to sub-borrowers to be contracted
over two years (with disbursements over three years) for priority investment
in oil seeds, deciduous and citrus fruits, dairy farming, and limited poultry
and sheep production. The financing plan is based on the principle that the
Bank should finance the foreign exchange costs, subject to ADFI providing a
reasonable proportion of the project c6st and farmers also making a suitable
contribution. The estimated cost of the development to be financed under the
project is Rls.1,204 million (US$16.0 million), of which the foreign exchange
cost is about US$8.9 million for the import of agricultural machinery and



- 5 -
equipment, pumps and piping for deep we-Us, cold storage and packing plant
equipment, and dairy cattle. The contribution of the farmers will be 30 per-
cent in accordance with ADFI practice.  ADPI's c.-n contribution will also be
30 percent, leaving 40 percent to be finanmed out of thle Bank's loan.  Loans
made by ADFI to sub-borrowers will be denominated in foreign exchange, for
that portion of the loan which represents the proceeds of the Bank Loan, so
that the foreign exchange risk is bone by ADFI's sub-borrowers.    Loans will
be for periods of six to twelve years depending on the type of subproject
and will carry interest at 7-1/2 percent with a service charge of 1/2 percent.
The sum of US$100,000 will pormit ADFI to employ an advisor for two years.
14.       Direct benefits from the project will take the form of increased
production from larger commercial farmers, who through the use of long term
credits will be ab'e to develop their propcrties, Considerable benefits will
also accrue to the eccroIPy thtrough the operation of preparation, packaging
and storage facilities.  The estimated net annual increase in the value of
agricultural production from the project when all sub-projects reach maturity
is Rls.380 million (US$5.0 million). The estimated rate of return to the
economy of Iran is about 17 percent.
15.       The project should substantially increase income from existing farms
and provide a good income on new ones with a return on incremental investment
ranging from 16 to 22 percent, before payment of debt service and taxation.
While the expected rates of return are believed to be high enough to attract
investment, they are not excessively high. Tax payments would start only
after completion of debt service. Tax revenue receivable by Government as
a result of the project is difficult to assess, because of the number of
assumptions which have to be made, but the average annual net taxable income
is estimated to total Rls.400 million at full development, yielding, at a
tax rate of about 30 percent, a total of Rls.120 million (US.40.6 million) to
Government annually.
16.       Farmers will buy   their equipment through local commercial channels.
Farm machinery and equipment, in general, can be imported without restrictions,
subject to normal commercial tariffs (5 percent) and are available at reasonable
prices. Local servicing facilities are adequate. Tractors of between 45 and
65 horsepower are imported under bilateral arrangements with Eastern European
countries which are not members of the Bank and will not be financed from
the Bank Loan.
17.       ADFI will submit to the Bank for review and prior approval any
sub-loan or aggregate of sub-loans to the same farmer made under the
project in excess of the equivalent of US$200,000. The same requirement
is imposed also upon all sub-loans to agricultural processors for
preparation, packaging and storage. ADFI is not permitted to withdraw
in excess of the equivalent of US$1 million from the loan account in
respect to any loan or combination of loans to the same beneficiary.



- 6 -
18.       The Bank loan Til . be disbursed on statements, certified
by A!IFI, that sub-loans had 'been disbursed for approved purposes.  The
Banl -ill disburse up to a total of U&S6-4 rrillion, 57 percent of the
amount of these sub-loans, or in respect of sub-loans above JS750;00O,
either 57 percent or the actual foreign exchange cost, wThichever is
less.
PART IV - LEGAL DMSTRUMENTS AND AUThORITY
19.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Agricultural
Development Fund of Iran, the Draft Guarantee Agreement betw,een the Government
of Iran and the Baik and the Report of the Committee provided for in Arti.cle
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
20.       The provisions of the Loan Agreement generally conform to the
pattern of Bank agricultural credit loais.
PART V - THE ECOHOZY
21.       An economic report entitled 'Economic Situation and Prospects of
Irant (SA-8a) dated December 31, 1969 uas distributed on January 7, 1970 (R70-2).
22.       Since the early sixties, Iran's development efforts have met
with considerable success. Gross national product at constant prices has
been growing at more than 8 percent per annum and investment at more than
twice the rate of growJth of income.  These rates of growth were made possible
by the tremendous increase in oil revenues during the period. How,iever, in
recent years the rate of growth of domestic savings, particularly in the
public sector, has not kept pace with the very ambitious investment program.
The ensuing savings gap was met by heavy reliance on short- and medium-term
foreign borrowing. These developments have led to a sharp rise in the
country's debt service obligations.
23.       The prospects for the continued growth of the economy are favorable.
Iran is creditworthy.  However, if price stability is to be maintained and
balance of payments difficulties are to be avoided, the Government will have
to take measures to improve the mobilization of domestic resources for
investment. The prospects for non-oil exports, the present low rate of
taxation and the flexibility inherent in a rapidly growing economy offer
considerable scope. At the same time, Iran will need external financing
on longer terms. The Iranian authorities recognize the importance of
securing a larger proportion ol' external financing on longer terms and the
need to improve project selection and management.



PART VI - COI2LI-ACE !ZHE,-TTI A"TICLES OF AG: ;iELT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comDply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Banc.
PART VII - RECO 'Ilr4ENDATION
25.       I recommend that the axecutive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Attachment                                      Robert S. lMcNamara
President
January 28, 1970



