FILE COPY
R E S T R I C T E D
Report No. PA-23a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
IRAN
January 26, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1               Rials 75
Rls 1            =   US$ 0.013
Rls 1,000,000   =   US$ 13,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                      = 2.20 pounds
1,000 kg            = 1 metric ton   =  0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                          =  1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                     = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)     = 10,000 m2       =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer = 100 ha          =  0.39 square mile
1 liter                              -  0.26 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
ABI     - Agricultural Bank of Iran
ADFI    - Agricultural Development Fund of Iran
CCRC    -  Central Organization for Rural Cooperatives
FAO     - Food and Agricultural Organization
GNP     -  Gross National Product
3l4BI   - Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran
IRANIAN AND GREGORIAN CALEINAR
Iranian Year begins March 21, ends March 20
1969/70 in Statistics = March 21, 1969 to
March 21, 1970
= Iranian Year 1348
ADFI Financial Year ends June 20



IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N1o.
SUMMARY AUD CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        i
I.     INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
II.    BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
A.    General   .  .   .  .    .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .   .   .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  2
B. Agricultural Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
III.   THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND OF IRAN (ADFI)  . . . .    6
IV.    THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
A.  General Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
- Definition  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
- Lending Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
B.  Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
C.  Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
D.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
E.  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
F.  Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGE1ENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRODUCER BENEFITS . . . . . . . .   l&
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission in April/May
1969 to Iran, composed of Messrs. P. G. Nelson, M. Gould, R. Rossi (Bank),
A. V. Anker-Ladefoged (Livestock Consultant) and M. Grace (Agricultural
Processing Consultant).



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Land Reform
2. Banking and Credit
3. The Agricultural Development Fund of Iran (ADFI)
4. ADFI Forecast Balance Sheet
5. ADFI Forecast Profit and Loss Account
Oilseeds
6.    Sub-Project
7.    Financial Projections
Citrus
8.    Sub-Project
9.    Financial Projections
Deciduous Fruit
10.    Sub-Project
11.    Financial Projections
Dairy Farms
12.    Sub-Project
13.    Financial Projections
Sheep Farms
14.    Sub-Project
15.    Financial Projections
16. Marketing of Project Products
17. Investment by Sub-Projects
18. Project Cash Flow
19.  Economic Rate of Return
CHART
M4AP



IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for development of irrigated com-
mercial farms and improvement of crop preparation, packaging and storage,
through a three-year program of long-term lending by the Government spon-
sored Agricultural Development Fund of Iran (ADFI). The project is esti-
mated to cost about US$ 16 million. Until recently, larger commercial
farmers (holdings of more than 100 ha) were reluctant to invest in agricul-
ture because of uncertainties attending the 1962/69 land reform; and they
had no ready access to long-term loan funds. Government agricultural credit
and technical services concentrated on the more than two million families to
whom small farms were distributed during land reform, and the Agricultural
Bank of Iran (ABI) resources of close to US$ 200 million were devoted to the
needs of these and other small farm families. Government is now making a
determined effort to stimulate agricultural production by larger commercial
farmers and, in April 1968, set up ADFI specially to provide credit for them.
ii.       ADFI is an autonomous statutory corporation with initial author-
ized share capital (to be Government subscribed) of US$ 13.2 million equiv-
alent and extensive powers to borrow against Government guarantee. It oper-
ates commercially, but taxes paid are to be refunded as share capital and
all profits are to be retained for reinvestment. ADFI staff are academically
well qualified and some have had training in project appraisal. ADFI's man-
agement and the Bank recognize, however, that additional assistance in proj-
ect selection, appraisal and supervision and in training of technical staff
would be useful. With this objective in view, ADFI is currently seeking the
assistance of an internationally recruited advisor. Since ADFI is still a
relatively new organization, ADFI sub-loans financed by the Bank above
$ 200,000 would be referred to the Bank for prior approval.
iii.      Until ADFI is earning a profit (expected to be during its third
year of operation), Government finance would be in the form of share capital
subscription. ADFI would lend to farmers at an effective interest rate of
8% per year, which compares with 71½j% charged by the Government sponsored
Industrial Credit Bank, 8% charged by the Industrial and Mining Development
Bank of Iran (IMDBI) and 9% to 12% charged by commercial banks. The farmers
would, in addition, be expected to bear the foreign exchange risk on repay-
ments due the Bank.
iv.       Water availability is of first importance to Iranian agriculture,
and project loans would be devoted mostly to investment in new on-farm irri-
gation systems, or improvements to old ones; but also to buildings, machinery,
equipment, planting material and livestock. The project would include enter-
prises for crop preparation, packaging and storage, and a small amount of
technical assistance.
v.        The Bank has made three previous loans to Iranian agriculture for
irrigation projects: in 1960, US$ 42 million (247 IRN) to help finance the



- li -
Dez Multipurpose Project and, in particular, the Mohammed Shah Pahlavi Dam
and associated hydroelectric works; and in 1969, US$ 30 million (594 IRN)
to finance Stage I in the progressive development of the Dez Irrigation Pro-
ject. In addition, the Bank in 1967 made a loan of US$ 22 million (517 IRN)
to assist in the development of deep well irrigation and modernization of
agricultural production in the high plains area near Ghazvin. The loan pro-
posed in this report would be the first for agricultural credit.
vi.       Projections indicate increasing domestic demand for fruit, vege-
table oil, dairy products and meat. The proposed Bank loan would, therefore,
be used primarily for increasing the production of oilseeds, deciduous fruit,
citrus, dairy farming and limited poultry and sheep production. The returns
on incremental investment are satisfactory both to the individual farmers
(between 16 and 22%) and to the economy of Iran (17%).
vii.      As with many agricultural credit projects, the scale of individual
on-farm investments is too small and the range of items to be financed too
large for international competitive bidding to be practicable. Except for
certain items imported under bilateral arrangements, which are excluded from
the project, a wide range of internationally manufactured farm machinery and
equipment is readily available through local trade channels and would be
procured by project borrowers from suppliers of their own choice. Dairy cows
would be imported from five or six countries specializing in their breeding
and export.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of Us$ 6.5 million equiva-
lent for a term of 15 years, including a grace period of four years. The
loan would be made to ADFI; it would be guaranteed by the Government. The
loan would cover about 40% of total cost, which is less than the estimated
56% foreign exchange component (US$ 8.9 million) because both ADFI and its
borrowers would be expected to make a substantial contribution of about 30%
each. If the project were successful, it is contemplated that the Bank loan
would be the first stage in a continuing program of Bank lending to agricul-
ture through ADFI.



IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Iran has requested a Bank loan to assist the
Agricultural Development Fund of Iran (ADFI) in a three-year lending program,
primarily for development of irrigated commercial farms but including im-
provement of facilities for crop preparation, packaging and storage. ADFI
was founded specially to provide medium and long-term finance for the larger
commercial farmers (normally holding 100 ha or more). The recent creation
of ADFI (April 1968) is part of a determined effort by Government to stimu-
late agricultural development by the larger farmers who have sizeable areas
of land and possess in varying degrees the capital, entrepreneural spirit,
knowledge and initiative needed for modern mechanized farming.
1.02      Until very recently, Government agricultural credit and technical
services have been concentrated on the more than two million families to
whom small farms were distributed during the 1962-69 land reform (see Annex
1). The Agricultural Bank of Iran (ABI - see Annex 2), which was set up to
help the smaller farmers, had resources of about Rls 15 billion (US$ 200 mil-
lion) in 1967/68, of which about 80% was lent directly to farmers and most
of the rest lent indirectly for their benefit. In deciding to assist larger
farmers, Government decided to create a new institution because the volume
of additional lending would be sufficient to support a new, financially
viable institution and because the number of changes that would have had to
be made in the existing structure and procedures of ABI to make it an appro-
priate organization for lending to both small and large farmers would have
been too great.
1.03      The Bank has been closely associated with the formation and early
institutional development of ADFI. Discussions concerning Bank assistance to
ADFI began in October 1966; a Bank mission advised on ADFI's charter and reg-
ulations in May 1968; and a FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission visited
Iran to help prepare the project in November/December 1968. In addition,
two ADFI staff members have recently undergone a six-month training program
at the Bank and EDI in November 1969 held a one-month training course in
project evaluation in Iran mainly for ADFI staff.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission
in April/May 1969 to Iran, composed of Messrs. P. G. Nelson, M. Gould, R.
Rossi (Bank), A. V. Anker-Ladefoged (Livestock Consultant) and M. Grace
(Agricultural Processing Consultant).



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
Ecological Regions
2
2.01      Iran, with an area of about 1.6 million km , is roughly four times
as big as California or twice the combined area of France and West Germany.
There are five major ecological regions:
(a) Caspian Littoral (north)
(b)  Zagros Mountains and Piedmonts (west)
(c) Inter-Mountain Plateaux
(d) The Persian Gulf Plain (south)
(e) The Great Salt and Great Sand Deserts.
Rainfall varies from about 1,000 mm (40 inches) - permitting agriculture
without irrigation - in the Caspian Littoral, to less than 100 mm in the
desert areas. Temperatures vary greatly from winter/summer averages of 40
and 200C (400 and 700F) in the Inter-Mountain Plateaux to 170 and 320C (630
and 900F) in the Persian Gulf. Daily variations are much greater however,
and winter frosts are a danger to some crops in the north and in the high
mountain areas. Over most of the country, modern agriculture is only fea-
sible with irrigation from rivers, "ghanats" - ancient underground water
channels - or ground water; and in the desert areas agriculture is rarely
Dossible because available water is too saline.
Importance of Agriculture and Contribution to Economy
2.02      Iranian agriculture contributes about a quarter of the country's
gross domestic production and accounts for 41% of the total employment. The
population of about 26 million is increasing by approximately 3% per year;
60% live in rural areas. Based laraely on petroleum production and an ex-
panding industrial economy, Gross National Product (GNP) grew at 8.6% per
year during the Third Plan - October 1962/March 1968 - and per capita income
is now almost US$ 300. M4onetary and price stability accompanied this rapid
growth. The Fourth Plan (1968/72) projects GNP to grow at 9.4% per year.
With an expanding population and rising living standards, Iran must either
grow or import more food. The Plan therefore calls for an increase in Govern-
ment investment in agriculture from Rls 49 billion (Us$ 650 million) under
the Third Plan to Rls 118 billion (US$ 1,570 million), together with a three-
fold expansion in the rate at which fully irrigated land comes into production.



2.03      Between 1962/63 and 1968/69, agricultural output increased approx-
imately 5% per year, partly due to recent favorable weather. This overall
increase was mainly due to very substantial increases in some crops. In
the period, for instance, production of wheat increased from about 2.8 to
3.8 million tons; and of sugarbeet from 1.2 to 2.9 million tons (with the
prospect of self-sufficiency in sugar within a few more years). Completion
of extensive land reform, during the Third Plan period, was a major accom-
plishment affecting the entire agricultural sector.
Importance of Water
2.04      Water availability is most important to Iranian agriculture.  Of
165 million ha, only about 19 million are cultivable, 12 million of which
are fallow at any one time. Of the remaining 7 million ha under cultivation,
only 3 million (45%) are irrigated. In general, river and ground water in
the valleys-and near piedmonts is of good quality; in general, too, the
further from the mountains and piedmonts, the more saline the ground water
becomes. In developing water resources, Government has tended to emphasize
large-scale irrigation projects including two for which Bank loans have been
approved; the Dez project (Us$ 42 million in 1960 and US$ 30 million in 1969)
and Ghazvin project (US$ 22 million in 1969) - see Map 1/. In Ghazvin, both
execution and withdrawals from the loan account are behind schedule because
of delays in the award of contracts, inadequacy of financing arrangements
between the plan organization and the project authority, administrative and
personnel bottlenecks and adverse weather conditions. Water availability
has also been a problem.  The additional area in Iran fully irrigated by
ground water during the Tnird Plan was nevertheless substantial and nearly
twice the planned 40,000 ha, cominared with 100,000 ha planned and 70,000 ha
actually fully irrigated by surface water.
Main Crops
2.05      Of Iran's many crops, wheat and barley are predominant.  They ac-
count for more than 70% of the cultivated area and about 30% of the value
of total crop output.  Other significant crops are rice, cotton, vegetables,
sugarbeet, oilseeds, tea and tobacco. Fruits and nuts are also important.
Although the cultivation of fodder crops has been increasing, they are not
yet widely grown. Little of Iran's 19 million ha of forest has commercially
usable timber.  Much is unproduCtive scrub land.
Livestock
2.06      Livestock and livestock peoducts account for around 40% of total
agricultural output. Sheep and goats are bv far the most common animals and
more than 80% are in migratory flocks and herds, grazing on increasingly
depleted open range.  Livestock fatteninz is still very limited.  Weather
directly affects production, and a drought or an extremely cold winter can
kill as many as 20-30% of the adiult awimals, and an even higher Dercentage
of the young. Milk, cheese and yoahurt are important livestock products.
Poultry is becoming increasingly )xyuular, due to the efforts of large private
commercial producers. Fishing i~. presentlv of' minor sipnificance.
1/   Loans 247-IRN, 51T7-RN and 594-IRN,



Agricultural Imports and Exports
:2.07     Iran imports large quantities of vegetable oil, wheat, tea, meat,
dairy products and live animals. In 1967, although less than 7% of the value
of total imports, agricultural imports cost about US$ 60 million. The main
agricultural exports are cotton and fruit (both fresh and dried), worth more
than US$ 55 million in 1967, almost one-third of the value of non-oil imports.
Prices and Margins
2.o8      Crop prices fluctuate widely, both seasonally and from year to
year, because production is affected by weather and a relatively small pro-
portion enters the market economy. Marketing deficiencies result in high
selling costs, wide wholesale and retail margins and relatively low producer
prices. These factors make the Iranian farmer cautious about long-term in-
vestment. Government has attempted cereal price regulation through import-
ation and large-scale domestic purchase and sale. While this has generally
been successful in preventing price rises, it has not avoided price falls
when crops were good. Government regulates prices paid by processors for
such commodities as oilseeds, sugar and milk, and has tried to hold down
meat prices, with little regard to increasing livestock production costs.
Extension and Research
2.09      Government extension service (about 600 technicians aided by 1,200
men and women from the Army Development Corps) has not been very influential
in agricultural development because it lacks skilled staff, technical ex-
pertise, budgetary support, transport, and demonstration facilities. Agri-
culturpl research has tended to be uneven and uncoordinated so that some
problems, associated with a particular crop, receive much attention and
other problems, none. Fortunately for commercial agriculture, there are a
few private consultants and many of the larger farmers themselves possess a
good deal of sound technical training.
Land Reform and the Larger Farmer
2.10      Land reform, conducted in three phases between 1962 and 1969, has
had a major impact on land tenure in agricultural areas. Under the first
phase, landlord holdings were limited to the equivalent of one village; ad-
ditional lands being subject to purchase and resale by Government. Under
the second phase, Government set limits on the amount of land which could be
held by the owner of a village. Amounts exceeding defined ceilings (100-150
ha in most of the country) were rented to smaller farmers on long-term lease,
sold, or divided with them on the basis of the traditional crop sharing ratio
(the s,maller farmers' percentage of the land being based on the percentage
of the crop which they had retained under the earlier share cropping arrange-
ment). The third phase provided that land previously leased from landowners
under the second phase now be sold to tenants or divided among them on the
basis of the crop share ratio. Virtually all of Iran's 50,000 villages have
now been covered by land reform and it is estimated that 3 million families
have received land.



-5-
2.11      Uncert&inties and disruptions associated with land reform discour-
aged long-term agricultural investment by larger farmers. Statistics are
inadequate, but an estimated 11,000 farmers, out of the more than 15 million
rural inhabitants now have holdings ranging from a hundred to several thou-
sand ha. The recent announcement that land reform had been comDleted and
that no more land would be redistributed has revived their interest in agri-
cultural investment. Government formed ADFI to provide the larger farmers
with added incentive and access to long-term funds to increase agricultural
production. Government also recently introduced the Income Tax Act, 1967,
which embodies measures designed to encourage agricultural investment,
mainly by way of ten year tax holidays.
B. Agricultural Credit
2.12      There are 27 banks in Iran, of which 7 are State-owned or con-
trolled, 10 private Iranian and 10 partly foreign-owned. Six are specialized,
including ADFI; of these, ABI lends mostly short-term to small-scale agri-
culture, and the Industrial Mining Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI) lends to
some agriculturally-oriented industries (about 20% of its US$ 120 million
portfolio). Further information on Iran banking and credit is in Annex 2.
Government also channels credit through various of its own and private agen-
cies. The more imnortant examples, from a wide selection, are the Machinery
Bongah (six-year farm loans at 5% per year for Government imported agri-
cultural machinery); the Oilseeds Development Company (short-term production
loans at 6%); the Sugarbeet Organization (annual production loans of up to
Rls 6,000 (US$ 80) per ha, and five-year loans for machinery and water de-
velopment, both at 3%, subject to performance); and the Cotton Institute
(production loans of up to Rls 6,0oo per ha at 6%). While there are no
statistics on the total amount of this officially sponsored credit - the
Fourth Plan includes a proposal to quantify and rationalize it - most of it
is short-term, the funds for it sometimes run out, and the individual amounts
are rarely enough for modern integrated farm development.
2.13      Much rural credit is provided from non-institutional sources, mostly
family and traders, the latter usually expensive. Institutional rural credit,
mostly short-term and comprising perhaDs 30-40% of total credit, has been
handled mainly by ABI and the rural cooperatives; though commercial banks,
to an increasing extent, are lending short-term to the bigger farmers, to
processors and to exporters.
2.14      In summary, as at present organized, short-term credit is readily
available (against collateral) to creditworthy customers of the commercial
banks, including farmers; it is fairly readily available to small farmers
and farm cooperatives through ABI and the Central Organization for Rural
Cooperatives. Medium and long-term credit is available for medium/large-
scale industry and mining, largely through DMDBI, which has received sub-
stantial Bank support (the most-recent Bank loan to IMDBI being for US$ 25
million in May 1969); but, partly because of the uncertainties surrounding
land reform, medium and long-term credit was not readily available for larrer
farmers, until ADFI was created.



-6-
Rates of Interest
2.15      As indicated in para 2.12, Government channels some credit to agri-
culture on concessionary terms. It does so to encourage specific production
(e.g. sugarbeet) and practices (e.g. mechanized farming; fertilizer use).
ABI lends at 6% per year (except for special overdrafts at 10% to cover
current expenses of farmers with land newly acquired through land reform).
The Government Industrial Development Bank (IDB) charges 7½2% on medium/long-
term loans; IMDBI 8% (7% plus a "service charge" of 1%^); commercial banks
between 9% and 12% for normal commercial loans. Non-banking rates may be
anywhere between 12% and 36% per year.
III. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND OF IRAN (ADFI)/
3.01      ADFI's purpose, as declared in its Charter, is to encourage private
investment in commercial agriculture, livestock production and associated
industries, by making credit available and participating with equity in pro-
jects that have been appraised and found to be technically and financially
viable. With longer term credit from ADFI and with land reform uncertainties
removed, commercial farms should be able to make a much more important con-
tribution to the economy. At the same time, the example of ADFI assisted
farmers could act as a catalyst for wider adoption of improved methods,
notably better land preparation and water use.
3.02      ADFI was formed as an autonomous statutory corporation, subject to
the Monetary and Banking Law, with initial authorized share capital, to be
subscribed by Government, of Rls 1,000 million (US$ 13.2 million) and exten-
sive powers to borrow against Government guarantee. It is required to oper-
ate commercially and all profits are reinvested.
3.03      ADFI has used its first year mainly to recruit and train staff and
to establish appraisal procedures.  In May 1969, total staff of 61 comprised
37 professionals and 24 non-professionals (see Part V for Organization and
Management). ADFI has not actively sought projects, except in the Tehran area,
where its office is located, but the publicity attending its formation has
attracted applications. By April 1968, 117 applications had been received,
mainly in dairy farming, deciduous and citrus orchards, poultry, sheep, oil-
seeds and sugarbeet; there were also applications to finance pistachio plan-
tations, a pomegranate orchard and a trout farm, to illustrate the wide vari-
ety. Of these applications, four led to approved loans totalling Rls 52
million (us$ 700,000), 28 were under consideration, 14 had been rejected and
71 had not yet been followed up. No branch offices are contemplated, or
needed, for the time being.
3.04      It is difficult for ADFI to forecast the demand for its credit,
and its intended purposes, because long-term credit has not previously been
1/   Further details of ADFI are in Annex 3.



-7-
available to its potential,clients. Forecasts can therefore be only tenta-
tive. ADFI is prepared to consider a wide range of projects in any part of
Iran and proposes to start with those which are in the main producing areas
(see para 2.01) and which meet its criteria of technical feasibility, sound
management, adequate market outlets and financial viability.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Definition
4.o0      The project is the development of irrigated commercial farms to-
gether with improvement of crop preparation, packaging and storage, through
a three-year program of long-term lending by ADFI. This program is part of
the first stage of ADFI's lending operations and, for farm development, com-
prises loans contracted over two years with disbursement over three years,
primarily for investment in oilseeds, deciduous fruit, citrus, dairy farming,
and limited poultry and sheep production. Investment would be in new on-
farm irrigation systems and improvement to old ones; buildings; machinery
and equipment; planting material; and livestock.
Lending Program
4.02      Total estimated cost of the project is Rls 1,204 million (US$ 16.0
million) (for analysis see para 4.13). ADFI would lend approximately 70%
of this total, or Rls 837 million (US$ 11.2 million) (for project financing
see Table, para 4.16). The lending program would be approximately:
Categories                      1969/701/    1970/71         1971/72       TOTAL
- Rls million)  - - - - - - -
Oilseeds                            62           123            -           185
Citrus                              24            58            37          119
Deciduous fruit                     27            64            33          124
Dairy                               29            87            65          181
Sheep                               18             6            -            24
Poultry                             19            35            -            54
Preparation, packaging
and storage                      -            150             -           150
Total                        179           523           135           837
1/   These periods are ADFI's financial years ending on June 20.



Small amounts of third-year capital expenditure on tree crops started in
1970/71 (Rls 34 million) and loans to finance it (Rls 24 million) are in-
cluded in 1971/72 to allow for possible earlier implementation. Assurances
were obtained from ADFI during negotiations that ADFI's lending program for
the Bank financed project would be confined primarily to the above categories.
4.03      Project estimates are based on:
(a) representative farm models;
(b) the number of units expected to be developed under
the lending program; and
(c) ADFI's expected capacity to process and supervise
loans.
The total number of sub-loans included in the project would depend on the
size of individual loans actually approved. The maximum number of sub-loans
for agricultural production, given the expected size of individual loans,
would be about 50 in 1969/70 and 80 in 1970/71. ADFI would, in addition,
be making loans outside the project and, although the number cannot be ac-
curately forecast, there would be about 30 in 1969/70 and perhaps 40 in
1970/71. Repeater loans, with similar farm plans, would be easier to process
once the first few had been dealt with so that ADFI should be able to handle
the forecast numbers. While the Bank would not restrict ADFI's lending out-
side the project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that ADFI
would submit to the Bank annual estimates of its entire lending program.
B. Detailed Features
4.04      Investments given priority would help meet expected increases in
domestic demand and save imports. They aim at improved land and water man-
agement, with emphasis on basic infrastructure at farm level, and would
therefore include, in most cases, internal roads, land leveling, lined ir-
rigation ditches and drainage. All sub-borrowers would have an established
water supply (usually from deep wells), included as part of the farmer's
contribution if established specially for the sub-project. Brief details of
the main areas of investment follow.
Oilseeds (Annexes 6 and 7)
4.05      Loans for oilseeds development (sunflower, safflower and soy beans
etc.) would add about 5,000 ha to the 20,000 now devoted to oilseed produc-
tion. It is expected that the maximums number of oilseed sub-loans would be
about 50 to farmers each developing 100 ha of oilseeds. Sub-borrowers would
already be growing wheat and probably some oilseeds in rotation. Under the
project, they would extend their oilseed area, and through improved irri-
gation infrastructure and agricultural practices, increase the yields of



-9-
both wheat and oilseed crops. In addition to land improvement and on-farm
irrigation works, investment would include agricultural machinery and equip-
ment.
Tree Crops (Annexes 8 to 11)
4.o6      Loans for tree crops would help to develop about 3,000 ha of irri-
gated orchards. It is expected that the maximum number of tree crop sub-
loans would be about 60 to farmers establishing 50 ha of orchards. They
would be located in the ecologically suitable inter-mountain plateaux, pied-
monts and the area adjacent to the Persian Gulf. Sub-borrowers would ordi-
narily already have an area of soundly managed productive orchard and would
extend and improve it under the project. Investments would include:
(a) land improvement and development;
(b) on-farm irrigation works;
(c) agricultural machinery and equipment;
(d) construction and installations; and
(e) acquisition of selected seedlings of improved and
well-tested varieties of citrus and deciduous trees.
Dairy Farms (Annexes 12 and 13)
4.07      About 40 modern dairy farms in the Tehran area are stocked with
top quality high yielding imported dairy cows. Most owners, encouraged by
the Government milk processing plant in Tehran, began dairy farming with lo-
cal cows. Many owners have good technical qualifications, and about half
have studied the latest techniques overseas, notably in UK and USA. On re-
turn to Iran, they established new dairy farms with imported stock, mostly
from Denmark, Germany, Holland, Israel and UK. This stock is expensive
(us$ 750 to US$ 900 per head delivered) since it must come by air, and
freight is approximately US$ 320 per head. A high intensity confinement
system of dairy farming, which Iranian irrigated conditions demand, combined
with good milk yields from selected imported cows (as much as 5,000 liters,
or more, per lactation), has proved worthwhile at milk prices which seem
more likely to rise than fall from present levels.
4.o8      It was agreed during negotiations that under the project ADFI's
dairy lending would be limited to Rls 200 million (US$ 2.7 million); suffi-
cient to finance about ten 200-cow dairy farms each with 80 ha of intensive-
ly fertilized irrigated pasture. Most sub-borrowers would be experienced
dairy farmers starting or extending operations with imported dairy cows but
it is expected that a few dairy sub-loans would be made to other farmers
to assist them in producing corn, alfalfa and other feed crops for sale to
dairy farmers. Investment would include imported breeding stock; buildings



- 10 -
and dairy equipment; pasture establishment (alfalfa and silage); and farm
machinery. Dairy farms financed by ADFI would encourage smaller farmers to
increase production, directly through supply of surplus high grade heifers
and bulls and indirectly by the example of improved methods.
Sheep (Annexes 14 and 15)
4.09      Many Iranian crop farmers have some livestock on their properties
and the more advanced have introduced systems enabling them to retain sheep,
during drought and winter, that would otherwise have to move to new pastures
or grazing lands. Some of these more advanced farmers regularly breed sheep
to sell lambs at about seven months. The sheep are sheltered and fed on
crop residues, stubble and fallow, supplemented by alfalfa and concentrates.
It is expected that the project would include about ten units of 500 breeding
ewes and one of 5,000. All would be supplemental to existing agricultural
operations and some would be included in other sub-project units (e.g. citrus).
The sub-project is essentially a pilot operation, included because meat pro-
duction is of first importance. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that ADFI's project lending for sheep would be limited to Rls 50 million
(us$ 670,000) because not enough is known about the effectiveness of breed-
ing and feeding in these circumstances. Enough is known, however, to permit
selection of a small number of farms able to benefit from investment in sheep
production and to give a lead in improved methods. Investment would include
the breeding flock (70%); buildings; and pasture establishment (alfalfa).
Poultry
4.10      Broiler chicken and egg production is well developed, highly com-
petiti-ve, and adequately financed in Iran. To meet the growing demands of
the domestic industry, however, there is need for local production of parent
stock and hatching eggs under suitably skilled and experienced management.
Local production of parent stock and hatching eggs began about 4 years ago,
but about half of the local supply of 30 million hatching eggs and chicks
was still imported in 1968. It is expected that two or three large units
would be financed under the project. As this is a relatively new operation
and experience in production of hatching eggs and chicks is still limited,
assurances have been obtained that ADFI's lending under the project would
be restricted to Rls 100 million (US$ 1.3 million).
Crop Preparation, Packaging and Storage
4.11      Preparation, packaging and storage of crops is not yet well devel-
oped in Iran. Lack of proper storage forces producers to sell regardless of
market conditions, and this leads to wide seasonal price variation. Cold
storage is available in some of the larger towns; there is some rudimentary
preparation of fruit and vegetables for market; and a few fruit packing
houses, mainly for citrus. ADFI expects to receive applications, during the
next two years, to finance two small storing/packing plants for fruit and
vegetables in Southern Iran, two cold stores and several feed mills. They
would be privately owned and operated. These sub-loans have not yet been



appraised but, in view of their importance, it was agreed during negotiations
that ADFI could lend up to Rls 150 million (US$ 2.0 million) under the pro-
ject for these purposes, provided that all such sub-loans were submitted to
the Bank for review and prior approval.
Agro-Business
4.12      ADFI expects to receive several applications for "agro-business"
operations, large-scale vertically integrated operations in which production
is closely linked to some form of processing and marketing activities. No
money has been specially ear-marked for agro-business under the project but
ADFI may submit to the Bank for approval applications for agro-business un-
der various of the project categories. While agro-business operations ap-
pear to be profitable, any application would be carefully reviewed by the
Bank to ensure the suitability of the level of foreign involvement and pro-
fit sharing arrangements.
C. Cost Estimates
4.13      Total project cost, including contingencies varying between 5 and
10%, is estimated at about Els 1,204 million (uS$ 16.0 million), of which
US$ 6.9 million equivalent would be foreign exchange. Of the total, Rls 982
million (US$ 13.1 million) would be for on-farm investment (including live-
stock), Rls 214 million (US$ 2.8 million) for preparation, packaging and
storage, and Rls T.5 million (US$ 100,000) for technical assistance to pro-
vide for a internationally recruited advisor during the first two years of
the lending program. Details of investment by sub-projects are in Annex 17.
Cost estimates by category are summarized below:



- 12 -
Total Project Cost
Percent Percent
of       of
Total   Foreign
Rials Millions        US$ Millions      Project  Exchange
'ategory          Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost   Component
Agricultural
Production
Land improve-
ment and
development  80.0   30.0   110.0  1.1       0.4   1.5    10        27
On-farm
irrigation  136.0  206.0   342.0  1.8      2.7   4.5    29        60
Agricultural
machin-
ery 1/       24.0   93.0   117.0  0.3      1.3   1.6      8        80
Buildings,
construction
and instal-
lations     130.0   36.o   166.0  1.7      0.5   2.2    14        22
Planting
material     17.0    -       17.0  0.2       -    0.2     1        -
Livestock     47.0  107.0   154.0  0.7      1.4   2.1    13         70
Contingencies
and other    37.0   39.0    76.0  0.5      0.5   1.0      6       51
Sub-total    471.0  511.0   982.0  6.3      6.8  13.1    -          51
-I. Preparation,
packaging and
storage      64.o  150.0   214.0  0.8      2.0   2.8    18        70
.II. Technical
assistance    -      7.5      7.5   -      0.1   0.1      1      100
Total Project
Cost        535.0  668.5 1,203.5  7.1      8.9  16.0   100         56
./ Included in the total cost of agricultural machinery are Rls 32.80 million
(Us$ 437,000) for equipment obtained through bilateral arrangements which
is necessary for project execution but ineligible for Bank} finance.



- 13 -
4.14      The estimated foreign exchange cost of US$ 8.9 million arises
mainly from the import of agricultural machinery and equipment (80% of cate-
gory cost), pumps and piping for deep wells (70%), cold storage and packing
plant (70%), and dairy cattle (80%). It also includes building material
(e.g. iron, steel, cement) (20%), fertilizer used on immature tree crops
(pre-production costs) (30%) and an element of foreign exchange in contrac-
tors' use of machinery (10-20%).  In addition to the direct foreign exchange
component of US$ 8.9 million shown above, commitment fees and interest on
the Bank loan during ADFI's disbursement period would amount to about US$ 1
million.
D. Project Financing
4.15      The financing plan is based on the principle that the Bank should
finance the foreign exchange cost, subject to ADFI providing a reasonable
proportion of project cost and to farmers making a reasonable contribution,
having regard to their means and to the objective of stimulating a maximum
investment in agriculture.
4.16      Thirty percent of costs would be a reasonable contribution from
commercial farmers expected to participate in the project and this is the
proportion accepted in practice by ADFI. While higher then in some Bank-
financed agricultural credit projects, it would be within the means of the
large, commercial farmers, yet not too high to discourage their participa-
tion. Farmers would, in addition, be able to arrange working capital which
at full production would average annually about 47% of initial investment
cost of on-farm projects. Project farmers would be sufficiently prosperous
to provide working capital from their own resources or acquire short-term
funds from commercial sources. ADFI would also contribute 30% of project
cost which would be sufficient to ensure its meaningful participation and
hence that of Government. The remaining 40% of project cost would be financ-
ed by the Bank. Together with technical assistance, this would be approxi-
mately equivalent to US$ 6.5 million compared with the estimated foreign
exchange cost of US$ 8.9 million. On this basis, estimated project financ-
ing would be:
US$ (Thousands)
1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    Total
I. Sub-Project Loans
Farmers                 1,000       3,000        750      4,750      30
ADFI                    1,000       3,000        750      4,750       30
Bank                    1,400       3,900      1,100      6,400      4o
Sub-total          3,40O      9,900       2,600    15,900      100
II. Technical Assistance
Bank                       50          50        _          100
Total              3,450                  2,600    1J2o



- 14-
4.17      The Bank loan of US$ 6.5 million (Rls 488 million) would be to
ADFI, guaranteed by the Government. The foreign exchange risk on repayments
due the Bank would be borne by the farmer (para 5.06). Assurances were re-
ceived during negotiations that project sub-loans by ADFI would be made in
accordance with the following maximum grace and repayment periods:
Years
Grace   Repayment    Total
Oilseeds               3          5            8
Citrus                 5          7           12
Deciduous fruit        5          7           12
Dairy cattle           5          7           12
Sheep                  2          8           10
Poultry                -          6            6
Packaging              2          8           10
4.18      With loans commencing in two successive years, the latest repayment
would thus be made 13 years from the start of the project. The project cash
flow in Annex 18 shows that, with some ADFI loans repaid in less than 13
years, and allowing for contingent delays, repayment of the Bank loan over
11 years after 4 years' grace, a total of 15 years, would be appropriate.
The time lag causes a temporary surplus of receipts by ADFI over payments
by ADFI on the Bank loan estimated to accumulate to a maximum of Rls 148 mil-
lion (about 30% of the Bank loan) by the eleventh year but to be fully uti-
lized for repayment of the Bank loan during the next four years. This tem-
porary surplus (rollover) would cover the possibility of slippage in making
loans to farmers during or beyond the planned two-year commitment period or
contingent delays in farmer repayment of sub-loans to ADFI.
E. Procurement
4.19      As in the case of other agricultural credit projects, the scale of
individual on-farm investments would be too small and the range of items to
be financed too great for bulk procurement. International competitive bid-
ding would, therefore, not be practicable. With the exception noted below in
paragraph 4.20, farm machinery and eauipment, pumps and piping, can be im-
ported without restriction, subject to normal commercial tariffs (about 5%).
They are readily available through local trade channels and would be bought
by ADFI borrowers from suppliers of their own choice. Most international
suppliers of such items are represented in Iran; competition is keen and
servicing reasonably adequate. Imports of fertilizer and most other project



- 15 -
requirements (e.g. cement, iron and steel for construction) are also unre-
stricted. To ensure an element of competition in the supply of imported dairy
cows, dairy farm borrowers would be required to obtain quotations from at
least three different countries, while remaining free to choose whichever
suited them best. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions.
4.20      The import of tractors between 45 and 65 horsepower is a Government
monopoly under bilateral arrangements with nearby East European countries,
which are not Bank members. The tractors are suitable for their purpose and
servicing is available. Tractors of this size, with related equipment, are
needed for the oilseeds and dairy farming sub-projects and would be included
as investment items in farm plans on which ADFI lending is based. Their cost
(totalling about US$ 440,000 equivalent) is included in the financial pro-
jections (Annexes 7 and 13), but is not included in the project for Bank
financing.
F. Disbursement
4.21      The Bank loan would be disbursed on statements, certified by ADFI,
that sub-loans to the amounts specified had been disbursed for approved pur-
poses and that amounts specified had been spent on technical assistance.
The Bank would reimburse ADFI 57% of the amount of loans disbursed up to a
total of us$ 6.4 million equivalent and 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
technical assistance, up to a total of US$ 100,000 equivalent; US$ 6.5 mil-
lion overall.
4.22      For any sub-loan, or series of sub-loans to the same sub-borrower,
requiring financing out of the proceeds of the Bank loan of more than US$
750,000 equivalent, the Bank would reimburse ADFI either for 57% of the
amount of the sub-loan, 100% of the foreign exchange costs or US$ 1 million,
whichever would be lower. Assurances on these limits were received during
negotiations. In submitting any such sub-loan to the Bank for approval,
ADFI would furnish satisfactory evidence of the foreign exchange costs.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Details of ADFI are in Annex 3 and its organizational structure is
shown in the Chart. Briefly, ADFI operations, subject to its Charter, are
controlled and managed by a General Assembly (Stockholders), High Council
(Board of Directors) and President, who is the chief executive with wide
powers, including a veto on loan approval. An Executive Vice-President (not
yet appointed) would be the President's Deputy. A Loan Committee, comprising
the President and four members of the High Council, is the sole authority for
approval of ADPI loans and investments. A Projects Department is responsible
for appraisal and supervision. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that:



- 16 -
(a) an Executive Vice-President of ADFI, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be appointed before the loan is signed;
and
(b) no change would be made in ADFI's Charter without prior
approval of the Bank.
5.02      ADFI's detailed appraisal includes analysis of each applicant's
financial condition, forecasts of income and expenditure (with and without
the proposed investment), a cash flow showing projected sources and appli-
cation of funds and repayment ability and, in the case of farm sub-projects,
a farm plan. ADFI staff also check on market conditions for the applicant's
product. All applicants are interviewed personally and all farms visited
by ADFI technical agricultural and financial staff. Wherever possible, sup-
pliers are paid directly by ADFI. ADFI staff are academically well qualified
and some have had training in project appraisal. ADFI's management and the
Bank recognize, however, that additional assistance in project selection,
appraisal and supervision and in training of technical staff would be useful.
With this objective in view, ADFI is currently seeking the assistance of an
internationally recruited advisor. Since ADFI is a new institution, the
Bank would need to be kept closely informed on its operations and on the
use of Bank funds. Therefore, if seeking Bank finance for any sub-loan ex-
ceeding Rls 15 million (US$ 200,000), or two or more sub-loans to the same
sub-borrower in aggregate exceeding this amount, ADFI would submit for prior
Bank approval details of the sub-loan application(s) and supporting informa-
tion. It is expected that perhaps 12 loans out of approximately 130 project
loans would be above Rls 15 million. To ensure that too much of the Bank
loan would not be invested in a single enterprise, assurances were received
during negotiations that no more than US$ 1.0 million equivalent for a sub-
loan, or combination of sub-loans to a single borrower, would be made avail-
able from the proceeds of the Bank loan.
5.03      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) before making loans under the project, ADFI would
appraise individual applications and satisfy itself
that prospective borrowers would follow sound agri-
cultural practices, according to agreed farm plans,
and that estimated results to the farmer were ade-
quate to ensure a reasonable return on capital and
due payment of interest and loan recoveries;
(b) in making appraisals under the proJect, ADFI would,
in particular, satisfy itself regarding such tech-
nical aspects as the adequacy and quality of water
supply, ecological and climatological conditions
affecting production, suitability of planting ma-
terial, the introduction and use of current inputs
appropriate to the cropping program and the adequa-
cy of marketing arrangements;



- 17 -
(c) ADFI would submit details to the Bank, for approval
or comment, as stated above in para 5.02.
5.04      Loans are secured against the assets of the sub-borrower and he is-
sues promissory notes for repayment instalments. Secured property is in-
dependently valued. The ratio between loan and collateral is not fixed,
the criterion for loan decision being estimated ability to repay from income
generated by the proposed investment. The maximum proportion lent is 60% of
new investment (50%, if farm is leasehold); however, expenditure already in-
curred specifically for the project may be included as "new investment" and
this would increase the proportion of additional expenditure, which can be
financed by a loan, to 70% in most cases. This would leave 30% to be fi-
nanced by project sub-borrowers and, during negotiations, assurances were ob-
tained that they would contribute at least this proportion.
5.05      The lower limit for an ADFI loan is normally Rls 5 million
(us$ 65,000) (which is the upper limit for ABI). Smaller loans can be con-
sidered, however, if the President so recommends. Most ADPI loans are ex-
pected to be between Rls 7.5 million and 30 million (US$ 100,000 to 400,000)
with a few somewhat larger. The normal statutory maximum of ADFI investment
in a single enterprise is 10% of paid-up capital or, currently, US$ 460,000
equivalent.
5.06      ADFI has been lending at an effective interest rate of 8% per year
(7½S% interest plus a service charge of 2%). Although somewhat below normal
commercial lending rates, this rate is equal to the interest charged by IMDBI
(see para 2.15). The farmer would, in addition, bear the foreign exchange
-isk on repayments due the Bank. Since land reform. caused funds to be di-
verted from agriculture to industry and commerce, ADFI's High Council felt
it should begin with the lowest rate, commensurate with ADFI's financial
viability, in order to attract resources back again. Assurances were ob-
tained that ADFI would not change the existing rate without the prior ap-
proval of the Bank and during negotiations it was agreed that the general
matter of interest rates would be discussed between the Bank, ADFI and the
Government during the coming months.
ADFI Finance
5.07      ADFI's present resources are paid-up share capital of RIs 340 mil-
lion (Us$ 4.5 million) plus a small amount deposited by potential borrowers
as earnest of intent. Apart from the proposed Bank loan of US$ 6.5 million
and Government's matching contribution to the project, through ADFI, of
about Rls 350 million (Us$ 4.6 million), ADFI expects to derive funds fron
further drawings from Government to meet its other lending requirements.
Government finance of ADFI will be in two forms; further spbscriptions to
share capital, until the initial limit of US$ 13.2 million equivalent is
reached (probably within the next two years); and loans at 4k% interest;
3½% below ADFI's effective lending rate.  ADFI is not expected to cover costs
fully during its first few years, and should be able to call up share capital
from Government until it is earning a profit. Also, until ADFI reserves are
sufficient to provide for possible bad debts and reduction in value of in-
vestments, the policy of reinvesting profits should continue. A forecast in



- 18 -
Annexes 4 and 5 indicates that ADFI could break even with a portfolio of
about hls 1,700 million (us$ 23 million) which it might hope to achieve in
its third year of operation. ADFI's debt/equity ratio is not controlled by
regulation but, as it does not expect to borrow much more than the amount of
its paid-up capital until 1971/72, the ratio should not exceed 3:1, which
would be a reasonable limit for a new institution. During negotiations, as-
surances were obtained that:
(a)  Government would make funds available to ADFI Ls
required to meet the estimated project expenditures,
but so that Rls 1,000 million would have been sub-
scribed in the form of share capital not later than
June 20, 1971;
(b) ADFI would not incur debt in excess of three times
the aggregate of its paid-in capital and reserves,
without prior agreement of the Bank.
Accounts and Audit
5.08      During negotiations, assurances were received that ADFI would keep
separate accounts for the project and would make these available to the Bank
together with such accounts as the Bank might request concerning the overall
operations of ADFI. Assurances were also received that ADFI's annual balance
sheets and profit and loss accounts would be audited by an independent audit-
or acceptable to the Bank and sent to the Bank within four months of the end
of each year. A Government Inspector (see Annex 3, para 7) audits ADFI ac-
counts and formally certifies such statements. A firm of international public
accountants, Coopers and Lybrand, assists him and independently audits and
certifies the statements (in addition to providing accounting advice to ADFI).
These arrangements would be satisfactory for the purposes of the project.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AN) PRODUCER BENEFITS
Production
6.oi      About 5,000 ha oilseeds, 1,500 ha citrus, 1,500 ha deciduous
fruit, and 880 ha irrigated pasture would come into production as a result
of the project. This would represent a maximum of about 110 crop farms and
orchards, 10 dairy farms and eleven sheep farms, all of model size, benefit-
ing from new and improved land development, irrigation, farm infrastructure,
and new equipment. In addition, 2,000 high grade dairy cows would be im-
ported, some 10,000 breeding ewes introduced to improved grazing systems and
two units producing day-old chicks expanded. Additional annual production
from the project at full development (see para 6.03) is estimated at 8,000
tons oilseeds (3,000 tons vegetable oil), 20,000 tons citrus, 20,000 tons
deciduous fruit, 11,000 tons milk, 300 tons mutton (plus about 150 tons veal
and beef from dairy calves and culls) and about 4 million day-old chicks.



- 19 -
Markets
6.02      Domestic demand can readily absorb project production (see Annex
16), and projections indicate:
(a)  Fruit demand would increase to 1.8 million tons in
1972 over the existing level of production of 1.3
million tons and is expected to continue to grow to
2.8 million tons by 1980.
(b)  Among annuals, oilseeds and gourd crops 1/ are in
good domestic demand. About 90,000 tons of vegetable
oil are now being imported each year; by 1972, in spite
of increased domestic production, imports would still
be about 70,000 tons.
(c)  Demand for dairy products has been rising faster than
production, and imports increased from Rls 284 million
(US$ 3.8 million) in 1964 to over Rls 400 million
(US$ 5.3 million) in 1967. Demand, especially in the
Tehran area, is expected to go on rising over the next
five years at a rate of about 12% per year.
(d)  Rising demand and static supply are causing a severe
meat shortage in Iran. Mutton and lamb are the most
favored meats and supply is hard to increase because
traditional grazing has depleted the range and it
cannot produce more.
Vegetable oil prices in Iran are still high by international standards -
US$ 220/ton cif equivalent compared with US$ 165, see Annex 16, para 4 - and
an 8% decline in the farm gate price of oilseeds after three years has been
assumed in the financial projections which would bring domestic prices in
line with the present cost of alternative imports delivered to Tehran and
with expected Government price policy (see Annexes 6 and 7).
Producer Benefits and Revenue Generation
6.03      The project should substantially increase income on existing farms
and provide a good income on new ones with an adequate return on all incre-
mental project investments ranging from 16 to 22% (before interest on
borrowed funds). Income to farmers and financial returns on incremental
investments have been estimated on the basis of farm model calculations
(see Annexes 7, 9, 11, 13 and 15). These incomes are before debt service
(repayment of principal and interest), taxation and reward for entrepre-
neurial skill. They must also cover any risks inherent in the enterprises.
1/   e.g. cucumber, squash, melons.



- 20 -
As they are based on representative models some incomes in practice may
range higher than indicated while others would undoubtedly be lower. In
view of the fact that much of the investment under the project would be
in areas relatively new to the farmers involved, this project carries a
higher level of risk to the sub-borrower than many others. To some extent,
this, and the necessity to encourage investment in Agriculture, has been
recognized by Government in the tax holiday provisions applicable to new
agricultural investment contained in the Income Tax Act of 1967 (see para
2.11). In addition to the agricultural risks involved, as pointed out in
para 5.06 beneficiaries of sub-loans from ADFI would carry the foreign
exchange risk on that portion of their sub-loans financed out of the
proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. While the expected rates of return
are believed to be high enough to encourage investments they do not con-
stitute excessively high rewards. It should also be noted that bene-
ficiaries are expected to provide 30% of their project's capital from
their own resources. Annual incremental net incomes before and after
debt service are shown below:
Oilseeds    Citrus    Fruit    Dairy    Sheep
---------------Rls (thousands)---------------
Net Income
(i)  At present                   110        4o         60       -        -
(ii)  At full development       1,460      4,220      4,68o    5,980       300
Increment                         1,350     4,180      4,620    5,980        300
Debt Service (interest and
principal)           920        760       790    3,470        205
Increment After Debt Service        430     3,420      3,830    2,510         95
6.o4      The above incomes to farmers would be before taxes; they would
enjoy a ten-vear income tax exemption and by and large, tax payments would
start only after completion of debt service. Tax revenue receivable by
Government as a result of the project is difficult to assess since this
would vary as a result of the sub-borrowers' total incomes from all sources
and the actual mix of investments financed. If the mix were as anticipated
in this report the average annual net taxable income arising from the
project would total about Rls 400 million at full development. Making
certain simplifying assumptions in applying the 1967 Income Tax Act to this
income, the annual tax assessable at full development at a rate of about 30%
would total Rls 120 million (us$1.6 million).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The direct benefit from the project would be increased production
from the participating larger commercial farmers who require long-term funds
to develop their farms. In addition, through improvement of preparation,



- 21 -
packaging and storage, the project would add to the value and improve the
auality of agricultural production.
7.02      The project would improve Iran's balance of payments by a modest
us$ o.6 million through saving of vegetable oil imports and would permit ad-
ditional smaller savings of milk and meat imDorts. The gross annual increase
in the value of agricultural production from the project, when all sub-pro-
jects reach maturity (after 13 years) is estimated at Rls 770 million
(US$ 10.3 million). In commuting the economic rate of return, the farm gate
nrice of mutton and lamb has been reduced by 20% and oilseeds by 8% from
Dresent levels, to reflect the lower prices of alternative imports. The
assumed fruit price does not reflect the return to the economy because it is
depressed by a monopsonistic market structure; it is not possible to quan-
tify the effect. After making the quantifiable adjustments, the net annual
incremental benefit to the economy at full development would be about Rls
380 million (US$ 5.0 million). The rate of return to the economy of Iran,
discounted over the estimated life of the sub-projects (15 to 20 years) would
be about 17% (see Annex 19).
7.03      There would be other benefits that are difficult to quantify; for
example the demonstration effect on other, especially smaller, farmers; and
the possibilities of further dairy farm development through sale of high
grade surplus breeding stock from the dairy farm sub-projects. The project
would assist in developing the country's institutional infrastructure by
imnroving the institutional framework for agricultural credit by providing
financial, and some technical, assistance to the newly created ADFI. While
not making a major contribution to Iranian agriculture in terms of overall
production, the project would make a significant start with agricultural
lending in a sub-sector likely to produce quite rapid results.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      ADFI has a sound organizational structure and satisfactory opera-
tional methods and accounting procedures. Its staff, however, though aca-
demically well qualified, is as yet inexDerienced. Provided the Bank con-
tinues its close relationshiP with ADFI, and subject to the assurances
outlined below, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan to ADFI of
US$ 6.5 million over 15 years, including four years of grace, at the pre-
vailing rate of interest.
8.02      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
princiDal points:
(a) An Executive Vice President, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be appointed before loan
signature (para 5.01 (a));



- 22 -
(b) No change would be made in ADFI's charter
without prior approval of the Bank (para
5.01 (a));
(c) The Government would make funds available to
ADFI as required for the project but so that
Rls 1,000 million of share capital would have
been subscribed by June 20, 1971 (pars 5.07 (a)).
January 26, 1970



IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVEL0Pi4T FUND
Land Reform
1.      The first phase of land reform, initiated in 1962, limiited landlord
holdings to only one village of tenanted farm land; additional villages were
subjectto redistribution by purchase and resale by Government. Large mech-
anized farms or orchards, operated by their owners with hired rather than
tenant labor, were excluded from redistribution. Under the second phase,
Government set limits to the amount of land which could be held by the
owner of a village. Amounts exceeding defined ceilings (e.g. 100-150 ha
in most of the country) were to be rented to smaller farmers on long-term
lease, or sold to them or divided with them on the basis of traditional
crop sharing ratios. The third phase, approved by Parliament in January
1969, provides that land previously leased from landowners under the second
phase, be now sold to tenants or divided among them on a crop-share basis.
The Shah has announced that this is the final phase of land reform and there
will be no further redistribution of land.
2.      By the end of 1967, more than 15,000 villages and 800 farms had
been purchased from landowners, the public domain and crown lands. This
land was resold to some 617,000 cultivators.  Nearly all the remaining
villages and some 19,000 farms were transferred from landlords to tenants,
divided between landlords and cultivators according to traditional crop
sharing ratios, or else sold by landowners to cultivators on mutually agreed
terms. Approximately 2.4 million farm families benefited from this second
phase of land reform.
3.      The Ministry of Land Reform estimates that there remain about
11,000 large farms (100 ha or more).  These include mechanized farms or
orchards in existence at the commencement of land reform, mechanized farms
established after the beginning of land reform from formerly undeveloped
lands, and land retained by farmers when villages were divided on a crop-
share basis. In addition, Government recently authorized the Ministry
of Irrigation and Power to make available to "agro-business activities"
large plots of land irrigated by major dams. It is contemplated that
more than 200,000 ha of land will become available for this purpose.



ANNEX 2
IRAN9
A;rTRICT-.-TzUFL DEVELOPMENT FUND
BANKING AND CREDIT
A. General
Currency and Credit Council
1.       Iran banks, are controlled through the 15-member Currency and Credit
CouI1cil (CCC) established by the 1960 Monetary and Banking Law, under the
Chairmanship of the Governor of the central bank (Bank Markazi Iran).   CCC:
(a) directs and supervises all banking;
(b)  advises Government on financial and monetary matters,
including credit policy;
(c) cooperates with the Governor in the general management
of the central bank; and
(d) coordinates monetary and fiscal policies.
2.       CCC meets at least once a month and reports quarterly to the Minister
of -Pinance. It has power to set interest rates but has left commercial banks
free to determine interest competitively on normal commercial loans. Interest
may not be paid on current accounts, however; and on time deposits (over 29
days) the maximun permitted (from iNovember 2, 1968) is between 4% and 7%,
depending on the term. The maximum on savings accounts is 4-1/2% (paid
quarterly).
Banks in Iran
3,      aThere are 27 banks in Iran, of which seven are state-owned or con-
trolled, ten private Iranian and ten partly foreign (all banks must be 60%
Iranian). A list of banks and their total assets is in the attached Table.
Bank Melli Iran is much the largest with more than 30% of all bank assets
(excluding the central bank itself) and 350 branches throughout Iran. The
nt'mber of branches and total assets of all banks have risen steadily from
1135L4 with assets totaling Rls 123 billion (US$1,640 million) in 1963/64 to
over 3,500, and assets approaching Rls 300 billion (US$4,000 million) in
1963/690
1Specialized Banks
4.       There are six specialized banks; the Government-owned Industrial
Credit Bank financing industry, including Government enterprises, mainly
through small/medium loans; the Mortgage Bank of Iran, for real estate loans;
the Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI) financing private
enterprise mainly through medium/long term loans but with some equity par-
ticipation and with assistance from foreign financing; the Iranian Investment
Corporation, financed by the Iranian Oil Consortium, aimed at expansion of
other industries, mainly in the oil producing areas; the Agricultural
Bank of Iran, mostly for short-term lending to small-scale agriculture; and now
the Agricultural Development Fund r  Iran (ADFX) fiAancing medium/large 6calo



ANNEX 2
Page 2
commercial agriculture mainly through mediu4/long-term loans but with the
right to subscribe to equity.
5.      The Government-owned central bank, Bank Markazi, is the sole bank
of currency issue (on behalf of Government); is banker for Government and
for other banks; and controls the credit system, under CCC guidance.  The
currency is covered 40% by gold or foreign exchange (including IMF and YBRD
subscriptions), and 60% by specified securities, Goverrment obligations
being backed ultimately by the value of the Crown Jewels.
6.      All banks must have a CCC permit and make a monthly statement to CCC.
Their annual accounts must be made public.
Rediscounts and Interest Rates
7.      The central bank may rediscount commercial notes of not more than
90-day maturity at a maximum of 7%. Agricultural and industrial notes up
to 364-day maturity may also be rediscounted at that rate and the central
bank lends to, or rediscounts paper for, the specialized banks at lower
rates, down to 3%. Exporter's notes may also be rediscounted at concessional
rates if the foreign currency is surrendered to the central bank. The market
rate of interest on short-term commercial bank loans is between 8%o and 12%.
Non-bank loans are believed to be made between 12% and 36%, with probable
indirect charges as well, e.g. through crop purchase advances with the crop
valued below market prices.
Reserves
8.      The minimum proportion of bank deposits which must be kept in reserve,
and not used for lending, is 18% of current account deposits and 12% of time
and savings deposits. Reserves must be in balances with the central bank.
Certain Government, agricultural or industrial notes may be included as part
of the 12% reserve, up to a maximum of 2%. ADFI expects that its notes, if
and when issued, will be eligible for inclusion in this 2%.
B.  The Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran (IMDBI)
9.      IMDBI was formed in 1959 to make capital available for private inves-
tors in Iranian industry and mining. It is a joint stock company with 2,250
Iranian and 22 foreign stockholders.
10.     fdDBI makes loans, subscribes to share capital and arranges public
issues (a relatively new activity, since the Tehran Stock Exchange was esta-
blished only recently). fIDBI may give technical and managerial assistance
and carry out feasibility studies. It charges 7% interest on its loans,
plus a service charge of 1%, and a commitment fee of 1%o on undisbursed
balances.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.     FiDBI has 20$ of its Rls 9 billion (TUS$120 million) portfolio in
agricultural processing:
1967/68            %
Rls Million
Sugarbeet factories               768              8.7
Food processing                   550              6.2
Oilseeds and soap                 347              3.9
Cotton ginning                     80              1.0
Tea processing                     23              0.2
1,768            20.0
C. The Agricultural Bank of Iran (AB)
12.     The Agricultural Bank of Iran (ABI) was formed in 1933 to make loans
to small farmers. It now has 173 branches and some 500 mobile units. It has
Rls 9 billion in paid up share capital, subscribed by Government, and other
resources, (varying according to need) of about the same amount; a total of
the order of US$300 million. Although it has made larger loans to agricul-
tural companies and government organizations, the ultimate beneficiary has
almost always been the smaller farmer. The normal limit to any one borrower
is Rls 5 million (uS$65,ooo). The average loan in 1966/67 was about Rls 16,000
(US$200); (about the same for 1967/68); 152 loans (out of a total of 340,000)
averaging about US$18,000, and totaling about 4% of ABI loans in that year,
were made for larger projects.
13.     ABI loans are mainly for short-term working capital (harvesting loans)
but can also extend to irrigation, orchards, cattle breeding, rural construction
and other longer-term projects, especially to groups of smaller farmers acting
as a body.  Until recently, no project evaluation or loan supervision was
attempted; nor was it possible over hundreds of thousands of small loans to
village farmers. ABI depended on recovery from crop proceeds, collateral and
credit rating. From 1968, however, ABI is supposed to supervise loans larger
than Rls 100,000 (US$1,300) and it does supervise capital expenditure on the
larger loans. Government extension service supervises loans, to a very limited
extent, at village level.  By the nature and extent of its lending program,
ABI suffers many delays and defaults in repayment. Sometimes these are for
genuine causes, such as harvest failure, in which case repayment would be ex-
tended.  Recorded defaults in recent years have been between 10oo and 12%.
Although this may have improved in 1968/69, the true position is disguised
somewhat by the granting of loan extension<.
14.     ABI has been closely associated with the Land Reform Program (see
Annex 1) for which it was Treasurer, and has helped the changeover by making
credit available to the new small lando-wners (often to cover living expenses),
in effect taking the place of the former landlord, on whom the small farmers
previously relied. In 1963/64, at Government request, ABI made Rls 1,000
million available to the Central Organization of Rural Cooperatives (CORC).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
15.     Loans are made at 6%, regardless of length, except for overdrafts to
cover current expenses, which are at 10%. In 1967/68 ABI issued 3-year bills
at 6.5% and 5-year bills at 7%, mostly taken up by other banks as part of their
term depoeit reserves.
16.     The number of new loans granted by ABI reached a peak of 603,000 in
1964/65, declined sharply to 250,000 in the following year and increased to
340,000 in 1966/67. Recent figures are:
Nine Month-                       No.         Amount          Average
Ris Million    Rls      US$
March 21 - December 20)  1968    262,472        4,o65        15,500   210
) 1967    218,735        3,414       15,600   210
D. Other Credit
17.     ABI helped to start rural cooperatives in 1949.  The 1962 Land Reform
Law gave the movement great impetus by requiring new small landowners to become
cooperative members. CORC was set up in 1963 with a memrbership of over 1,000
rural cooperatives or cooperative federations. Compared with ABI's resources
of Rls 17 billion, CORC had 3.5 billion in 1967/68. CORC lends to cooperative
federations and individual cooperatives at 14%; and they in turn charge members
6%.  Loans are mainly short-term; the average amount in 1966/67 was Rls 4,800;
in 1967/68 Rls 6,080.  Recorded defaults were about 11% in 1966/67, 7% in
1967/68.
18.     Bank Omran, associated with the Iranian Royal Fpmily, has a supervised
lending program for former Crown lands, and is hoping to extend it. A number
of government and private organizations give or assist the giving of credit
to farmers; the Chemical Bongah for fertilizer and insecticides; development
authorities (such as Dez (KWPA) and Ghazvin) for farmers in their areas; the
Meat Organization; the Sugar Beet Development Organization. Sometimes the
credit is in kind; sometimes given at special low rates to encourage new pro-
duction methods (e.g. 3% loan for fertilizer, if yields are above a norm).
It is usually short-term, repaid by deduction from crop proceeds, but occa-
sionally medium-term, up to 5 years, for purchase of productive equipment. The
total amount is unknown; the funds available for it sometimes run out; and the
smaller farmer has priority. The Fourth Plan includes a review of the organi-
zation, function and loan balances of these credit giving agencies.
19.     MIoneylenders and merchants advance substantial sums but the total
amount is unknown; 60% to 65% of all lending for agriculture is alleged to come
from this source.
E. Conclusion
20.    As the credit system is at present organized, short-term loans are
readily available (against collateral) to creditworthy bank customers (including
farmers) and fairly readily to small farmers and farm cooperative members. The
administrative cost of the large volume of credit to small-scale agriculture is
high, however, and interest rates charged for it are generally subsidized.
Medium and long-term  credit is available for medium/large-scale industry and



ANNEX 2
Page 5
i.:Thg thro--yh T1DI but, partly because of the uncertainties attending land
r;-Form, mcd4.-j  and long-tenr credit was not available for medium/large-scale
agriculture, until ADFT was created except through ABI to a limited extent.
21.     IJedium and long-term credit is needed for productive agriculture by
the larger farrner - the farmer lTndlord with managerial ability and land
re-ourcesa   - and, if riade available, could lead to -ubstantial increases in
a,-otullral productivity.  ADFI hopes to meet this need.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FU1ID
IRANINI'T BANKS AND THEIR TOTAL ASSETS
(at March 21, 1969)
Rials Million          US$ Million
(@ Rls 75 =US$1)
1.   Melli Iran                      92,524                  1,234
2.   Export                          36,557                    487
3~ Sepah                             21,960                    293
4,  Agricultural                     21,139                    282
5.  Bazargani Iran                   12,206                    163
6.  Iiortgage Bank of Iran           10,927                    146
7.   Omran                            9,021                    120
8.  Etebarati Iran                    8,528                    11h
9.   Industrial Credit                8,218                    110
10.  Industrial and Mining
Development Bank of Iran       7,215                     96
11.  Tehran                           6,091                     81
12.  Kar                              6,011                     80
13,  Laborers' Welfare                5,555                     74
14.  Iran and Middle East             h,703                     63
15.  Foreign Trade Bank of Iran       4,264                     57
'6.  Pars                             4,139                     55
17.  Irano British                    3,992                     53
18, Dist-ibutors Credit               3,627                     48
19.  Russo Iranian                    2,701                     36
2C.  M>,ercantile Bank of Iran
and Holland                    2,352                    31
21.  Bimeh Barzarganan                2,056                     27
22.  Asnaf                            1,900                     25
23.  Bimeh Iran                       1,693                     23
24.  International Bank of
Iran and Japan                1,6h3                     22
25.  Iranian                            881                     12
26.  Iranian Investment
Corporation                      420                      6
27. Agricultural Development
Fund of Iran                -_-
280,323                 3,738



ANNEX 3
IRAN
THE r'GRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND OF IRAN
Background and Ppose
1.     The Agricultural Development Fund of Iran (ADFI) was established
by special law in April 1968 as an autonomous statutory corporat1.on and
subject to the provisions of the Monetary and Banking Law, 1960. Its
general purpose, as declared in its Charter, is to encourage private
investment in large-scale farming, livestock production, agricultural
processing and associated industries by making available credit and equity
participation in suitable projects.
Ownership
2.    ADFI is wholly Government-owned and has an initial authorized share
capital of Rls 1,000 million (US$ 13.2 million), of which, at june 20, 1969,
Rls 340 nmdUion (us$ 4.5 million) had been paid up. ADFI has extensive borrow-
ing powers (against Government guarantee) which may amount to US$ 200 million
equivalent for foreign loans and Rls 5,000 million (US$ 66 million) from
sources within Iran. ADFI has powers to borrow from the central bank and
commercial banks, may issue tax-free bonds, and accept time deposits (of
at least two years) at a rate of interest not exceedirg 7% per annum.
3.     ADFI is required by its Charter to operate commercially and, though
its profits are taxable, tax paid is to be applied by Government towards
further share subscription. Government is not looking to ADFI for early
dividends and profits, after provision for reserves, will be applied to
further lending.
Organization and Management (see Chart)
4.     ADFI's highest authority is the General Assenbly, which exercises
the functions of stockhlolders. It comprises six Ministers - of Agriculture
(Chairman), Finance, Water and Power, Agricultural Products and Consumer
Goods, Land Reform and Rural Cooperatives, and Natural Resources - together
with the Mqanaging Director of the Plan Organization (Government's planning
department).  Apart  from exercising statutory- functions,  such as
approval of annual accounts, the General Assembly lays down the broad
policies to be followed by ADFI.
5.    ResponsibiLity for ADFI's operations rests with the High Council,
the equivalent of a Board of Directors. Its ex-officio members are: the
Governor of the Bank Markazi (central bank) who acts as Chairman; the
President of ADFI; the hanaging Director of the Industrial and M;ining
Development Bank; the Under-Secretaxy for Agriculture; and the Deputy
lanaging Director of the Plan Organization.  In addition, the Council has
four members appointed for their knowledge and experience in agriculture,
economics, banking, finance and law - the present appointees being an



ANNEX 3
Page 2
economics professor; the  eputy Director of the Khuzestan Water and Power
Authority (Dez Project); an economist; and an irrigation speciaJist.
Nominees for the four appointments (for three years and eligibLe for renewal)
are selected by the Mnister of Agriculture (for appointment by the Council
of litnisters) from eight names submitted by the Chairiman. The High Council,
which meets at least monthly, decides inter alia on the rates of interest to
be charged for ALFI loans and on the appointment of independent auditors.
6.     All loan approvals are made by the Loan Committee which comprises
the President (who has veto powers) and specified members of the High Council.
The Committee considers applications appraised by the Projects Department,
winch receives specialist advice from other departmernts, such as on marketing
from the Economic Research Department.
7.     Of the officials, the President, as chief executive, enjoys wide
powers.  He is appointed for three years by Royal Decree on the recommienda-
tion of the Hinister of Agriculture and iath the approval of the Council of
Ministers. This post is presently held by an agricultural economics graduate
of Cornell University, who was formerly Director-General of Commercial
Development, and Vice-Governor of tlhe cenitral bank. He is assisted by an
Executive Vice-President appointed in a similar marnner, also for three years
but on the recomaendation of the President.  This post has not yet been
filled.  The other post of significance is the Inspector who is appointed
annually by the General Assembly, carries out internal audit, and is re-
sponsible for ensuring that ADFI's affairs are properly conducted (e.g. to
avoid personal favors in the granting of loans).
8.     ADF'ls office is in Tehran and it is not proposed to establish branch
offices for the time being. The present staff totals 61, comprising 37
professionals and 24 non-professionals. Of tvhe professional staff, 15 are
agriculturists, 5 economists, 6 financial analysvs and the balance includes
lawyers and experts in livestock, irrigation and crop processing.
Risk and Guarantees
9.     Loans, which are only made against detailed project submissions,
may be up to 60% of project cost (50% where land ls held leasehold) but
in practice, through a liberal interpretation of farmers' contributions,
ADFI lending can be as much as 7C, of new financing.  Loans are secured
against fixed assets (and, exceptionally, third party guarantee), and all
borrowers are required to take out life insurance for the amount and period
of the loan. However, the principal criterion for all loan decisions is
the estimated repayment capacity from income generated from the proposed new
investment.
Lending Policies and Procedures
10.    Except on the specific recommendation of tihe President, ADFI will
not make loans of less than Rls 5 million (US$ 65,000) and most are expected
to be in the range of Rls 7.5 to 30 million (US$ 100,000 to 4C0,000). The
statutory maximum (except with the approval of the Currency and Credit



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Council) is 10% of paid-up capital and reserves which would at present be
equivalent to US$ 450,000.  Total ADFI equity participation in projects,
similarly, may not exceed paid-up capital and reserves and in any one
project it may not exceed 15% of that total.
11.      Since its inception, ADFI's lending rate has been 7-1J per year,
which is in line with similar development lending institutions (though less
than commercial bank lending rates of 9% to 12%); it was designed to help
attract investment into agriculture. In addition, a commitment fee of 1/2%
is charged on undrawn loan balances and farmers have to deposit with ADFI
1/2% of the amount they want to borrow when applying for a loan. Lending
periods are flexible, depending on sub-project requirements, but most loans
are expected to be for a period of six to 15 years with grace periods of up
to five years.
Resources
12       ADFI's present resources amount to the paid-up share capital of Rls
340 million (US$ 4.5 million) plus borrowers' deposits of about Rls 1 million
(US$ 12,000). Apart from the proposed Bank loan of US$ 6.5 million and
Government's matching contribution of about Rls 350 million (US$ 4.6 million)
in share and loan capital ADFI expects additional contributions from the
Government to meet its other lending requirezents. Overall, Government's
investment in ADFI will take the form of share capital subscriptions up to
Rls 1,000 million (US$ 13.2 million) over the next two years, and the
balance as loan capital at an interest rate tentatively estimated at 4V per
year. The actual interest rate and the amount of ADFI loan drawings will
depend on ADFI's own lending rate which is under review.
Operations
13.      ADFI has used its first year mainly to recruit and train staff and
establish appraisal procedures. By April 30, 1968, 117 applications had been
received, mainly in dairy farming, deciduous and citrus orchards, poultry,
sheep, oilseeds and sugar beet; to illustrate the wide variety, there were
also enquiries for pistachio nuts, a pomegranate orchard, and a trout farm,
but most loans are expected to fall within the seven main groups. Of the
applications, h led to approved loans totalling Rls 52 million (US$ 700,000),
28 are under consideration, 14 have been rejected, and 71 are being followed
up.
Financial Situation
14.      Annex h gives a summary of ADFI's balance sheet at June 20, 1969
(based on audited accounts); and a forecast of balance sheets as at June 20,
1970/72. Annex 5 shows the corresponding profit and loss accounts. All
forecasts are made on the assumption that further loan capital will be made
available at 4tSS per year and that ADFI's lending rate will be 8% per year.
Government has indicated that it will lend to ADFI at 3½% below ADFI's lend-
ing rate. These forecasts show that, on this basis, ADFI could break even
on a portfolio of about Rls 1,700 million (US$ 23 million), which it might
hope to achieve in 1970/71. The cumulative balance on profit and loss account
would beceme positive in 1971/72.



ANNEX 4
IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Balance Sheets to June 20 1969-72 1
Rials (thousands)
As at June 20                 1969        1970        1971           1972
ASSETS
Cash or equivalent                237       9,900       10,800         8,900
Sundry debtors                  3,704       1,600        2,200         3,400
Loan Portfolio:
World Bank Project              -        180,000     697,000       837,000
Other                       3h,825       h00,800   1,076,000    2,708,200
Total Loan Portfolio     34,825       580,800   1,773,000    3,545,l00
Investments                  287,750          -         80,000        70,000
Vehicles and equipment         4,812         6,500       7,500         8,500
Other assets                      -            100         200           200
Total Assets             331,328      598,900   1,873,700    3,636,100
LIABILITIES
Borrowers' deposits               876        3,000       6,500         8,900
Sundry creditors               2,935           900       1,200         1,800
Loan Capital:
IBRD                           -         108,800     405,Oo       487,5oo
Government                      -           -        325,ooo    1,575,000
Managed accounts                -           -        150,000       525,ooo
Share capital                340,000       510,000   1,000,000    1,000,000
Reserves and provisions           -           -           -           13,000
Profit and Loss Account       (12,483)     (23,800)    (11,000)       2h1,900
Total Liabilities       331,328       598,900   1,873,700    3,636,100
1/ Audited for June 20, 1969; forecast for later years.
November 24,1969



ANNEX 5
IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Profit and Loss Accounts for Years Ending
June 20, 1969-72 1/
Rials (thousands)
Fiscal Year -/ Ending June 20                 1969        1970       1971       1972
INCOME
Interest on loans 2/                          737    25,200       93,300    212,000
Short-term interest                        13,512    10,250        2,4oo      2,000
Other                                          18         50         100        200
Total Income                          14,267    35,500      95,800    214,200
EXPEND IT TJRE
Salaries and travel                        26,750    41,917       56,500     85,100
Other expenses                                 _       2,200       2,500       3,000
Sub-total                             26,750    44,117      59,000      88,100
Gross Profit (Loss) before
interest and provisions                 (12,483)   (8,617)    36,800       126,100
Interest paid:
IBRD (including commitment fee)4/           -        2,700     19,700       31,500
Government 5/                                -         -         7,300      42,700
Sub-total                                -       2,700      27,000       74,200
Net Income (Loss) after interest          (12,h83)  (11,317))      9,800      51,900
Reserves and provisions (net)                  -         -           -        13,000
Net Profit (Loss)                         (12,483)  (11,317)       9,800      38,900
1/  Audited for period to June 20, 1969; forecast for later years.
2/  The fiscal period ending June 20, 1969 represents slightly more than one year.
3/  Interest on ADFI loans at 7&A per year on loans made to June 20, 1969 and
8% per year on loans made thereafter.
4i IB9RD interest rate at 7% per year and commitment fee at 3/4%.
_5  Government interest rate at 9$ per year.
November 24, 1969



.AJiU 6
IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Oilseeds Sub-Project
1.        The project would help finance production of oilseeds on
the equivalent of fifty 100-ha irrigated farms, a total of 5,000 ha.
Production would be on a double cropping rotation with oilseeds
(summer crop) following cereals (winter crop). Farmers would guaran-
tee to:
(a)   provide an adequate water supply (as to time, quantity and
quality) - a prerequisite to lending;
(b)   use selected seeds of well tested, improved varieties;  and
(c)   carry out a well conceived agronomic program including the
use of fertilizer and pesticides.
2.        The sub-project, through improved practices and establish-
ment of fundamental infrastructure at commercial farm level, would
increase overall annual production by about 5,000 tons wheat and
8,000 tons oilseeds in the sixth or seventh year. Yields are expected
to develop as follows:
Years
Before
Tons/ha      Develop-     1        2      3       4         5     6-12
ment
Wheat          2.00     2.00    2.20    2.40   2.60      2.80    3.00
Oilseeds       1.00     1.00    1.20    1.40   1.60      1.80    1.80
3.        Oilseed prices during the assumed 15 year life of the sub-
project are estimated to fall from Rls 13,000 per ton during the
first three years to Rls 12,000 per ton from the 4th year onwards.
Wheat prices are assumed to remain at Rls 5,000 per ton. It has been
assumed that 100% of production would be commercialized.
4.        The project would result in the following major improvements:
(a)   levelling of 2,500 ha, including 250 km drainage ditches;
(b)   drilling and installation of 100 deep wells for irrigation;
(c)   lining of about 100 km irrigation ditches, including con-
struction of small irrigation structures;
(d)   additional farm implements, tools and machinery;  and
(e)   200 km farm roads.



ANNEX 7
lEAN
kGRICULTURAL DNm.0PMU  FM
Oilas.d  - Finjmial ProJeotions
Risla(%liou,cds)
Before
Dlopmnt          1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8      9      10    1-15
00IFLa
ata 3xenditre
~laixurosemnt and developnt                 50          100
On-farm irrigation works                 1,650        3,500
Agricultural ,7Lchinery an
equipwalit -                             400          700     -       250    -       150     -       -       250     -       450      I/
Buildings and installations                900          500
Contingencies (10%)                        300          480
A.         Sub-total                          33,0         5,280     -      250     -       1.50    -       -       250     -       450       /
0peratings bsenoes
a>ries znd wages                  400          7o      720    730    740    750    750    750    750    750    750            750
Annual inputs                              650        1,000   .,050   1,100  1,150   1,200   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250
Other, including conti4gencies             100         170    180      180    190    200    200    200    200    200    200    200
B.         Sub-total                          1.150       1,880   1,950  2,010  2,080   2,150   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200
Debt Service
Interest and service charge 8.0%           -           150     300    3°)
Repaynent                                               -       -                             Equated Anmiity
C.         Sub-total                            -           150     3e0    3C0      920    920    920    920    920    -
D.         Total Outflow (A+B+C)              1,150       7,310   2,250   2,560   3,0O0   3,220   3,120   3,120   3,370   2,200   2,650   2,200
INFLOW
Sae
seeds                                       260        1,300   1,560   1,820  1,920   2,160   2,160   2,160   2,160   2,160   2,160   2,160
Wheat                                    1,000        1,000   1,100  1,200   1,300   1,400   1,500  1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500
E.         Sub-total                          1,260       2,300)
F. Loan Funds                                   -          3,7003
G.         Total Inflow (E+F)                 1,260       6,000   2,660  3,020   3,220   3,560   3,660   3,660   3,660  3,660   3,660   3,660
B. Net Cash Flow (G-D)                          110       (1,310)   410    460    280    340    51;         540    290  1,460   1,010   1,460
FINANCIAL PATE OF RETURN
I. Net Operating Income (S-3)                  110          420    71o  1,0    i,ii4o  1,41  o   1,460  1,4460   1,460   1,460   1,460   1,460
J. Net Income without development              1o           no      lo      nO       90      90     90      90      90      90      90      90
K. Net Incremental Income(I-J)                  -           310    600    900   1,050  1,320   1,370   1,370   1,370   1,370   1,370   1,370
Loan Funds-
l.igible for Bank fiame  )70%           -          3200))
Ineligible for BEnk financo             -            500)
Parmers' contribution           30%          -         (1,580o)
Sub-total (Investmnt)               -         (5,280)   -       (250)   -      (150)   _        _      (250)   -       (450)    I/
Net Incremental Benefit (Coat)               -         (4,970)   600    650  1,050  1,170  1,370   1,370  1,120   1,370          920      V
Estiuted Finaneial Rate of Return: 19%
1/ Replacement of tractor and equipont inoluded in Year. 1 to 15 am reqaired.
2/ Farmers borrowing to cover operating expeJeeu, pay short-term intereet out of this net cash flow. To cover 100% of crop expenses
.   8% would cost in Year 1, about R1. 150,0001 in Years 6 to 15, about R1s 130,000 per year.
November 24. 1969



AIWEX 8
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIEAT FULD
Citrus Sub-Project
1.       The project would help finance production of citrus on the
equivalent of thirty 50-ha irrigated farms totaling 1,500 ha in frost-
free areas of Iran, particularly in the south. During the first six
years, while the trees are immature, early season cucurbitaceous crops
(melons, squash, pumpkins, cucumbers, etc.) would be inter-tilled.
Farmers would:
(a)  provide an adequate water supply (as to time, quantity and
quality) - a prerequisite to lending;
(b)  use selected seedlings of well tested, improved varieties;  and
(c)  carry out a well conceived agronomic program including use of
fertilizer and pesticides.
2.       The sub-project, through improved practices and establishment
of fundamental infrastructure at commercial farm level would increase
overall annual production by about 30,000 tons citrus at maturity in
the 11th or 12th year; and about 9,000 tons cucurbits up to the 6th
year, when inter-tilled cucurbitaceous crops would be discontinued.
Yields are expected to develop as follows:
Years
Before                                                     10
Tons/ha         Develop- 1   2    3    4  .5    6    7    8    9   10   to
ment                                                       20
ETisting Citrus    2      5   8   11   14   17   20   20   20   20   20   20
14eJ Citrus         0     0   0    0    1    2    5    8   11   1    17   20
Cucurb ts         15    15  15   15   15   15   15    -    -    -    -    -
3.       Prices during the assumed 20 year life of the sub-project are
estimated to remain at:
(a) existing and new citrus - Rls 10,000 per ton;
(b) cucurbits - Rls 3,000 per ton.
Hlaving regard to existing marketing facilities and seasonal competition
it has been assumed that about 30% of the produced cucurbits would be
marketed and 70S of the citrus.  The rest of the cucurbits would not be
-worth marketing late in the season, when more northerly areas, nearer
Tehran, come into production. The remaining citrus would not be of
marketable quality or would also be late season crop.



LNJEX 8
Page 2
The sub-project would result in the following major improvements:
(a)  development and improvement of 1,200 ha, including 120 km
drainage ditches;
(b) drilling and installation of 30 deep wells for irrigation;
(c) lining of 60 km irrigation ditches, including construction of
additional small irrigation structures;
(d) 90 km of fences and windbreaks;
(e) 30 orchard tractors (20 hp) related farm equipment,
implements and tools;
(f)  30 buildings as storage for seeds, fertilizers, chemicals and
farm machinery; and
(g)  60 km farm roads.



ANNEX 9
AaRICULTORAL DE15VLOPMNr FUND
CitruB - Financial Pr;etions
Rials(thous,nds )
Before
Developmnt 1         2        3       4       5       6        7       8       9       10      11      12      13-20
OUTFLOW                                                                          Total
(Years 1+2+3)
Ca;.al Expenditure
d improvesient and developsmnt          130      285     285     -          570
On-farm irrigation works                 1,410   1,765      515     -       2,280
Agricultural Tchinery and
equipmnt -                               300     240     150      100       490   300      -       -       -        200     -        40      150      I/
Construction and installations             700     500      -       -         500
Fre-production costs                       -       320      400     60i     1,320
Contingencies (10%)                        260     310      140      70       520
A.          Sub-total                         2,800   3,420   1,490      770     5,680   300      -       -        -       200     -         40    150   1 /
Operating Sxpenses
Salaries and wrages                        100     250      400     500     600     700      800   1,000   1,200   1,400   1,600   2,000   2,000   2,COO
Annual inputs                              260     420      600     630   1,110   1,150   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,500   1,600   1,700   1,800   1,800
Other, including contingencies              40      70      100     110     170     190      200     230     260      290     320     370     380      380
3.          Suib-total                          400     740   1,100   1,240   1,880   2,040   2,200   2,530   2,860   3,190   3,520   4,070   4,180   4,180
Debt Service
Interest and service charge 8.o%           -       100     230      290     320     320)
Repayment                                  -       -        -       -       -       -                    Iquated Annuity
C.          Suo-total                           -       100      230     290     320     320)    760      760     760     760      760     760      760     -
D.          Total Outflow (AB+3C)                40    4,260   2,820   2,300   2,200   2,660   2,60   3,290   3,620   4,150  L4,250   24,870   5,099   4,180
iTNFLOW
Sales
Citrus                                     170      420     670     920   1,510   2,100   3,360   4,370   5,380   6,380   7,390   8,400   8,400   8,80(0
Cucurbit                                   270     410      540     540     540     540      540     -       -       -        -
E.          Suib-total                          440     830   1,210   1,460
F. Loan Funds                                   -     2,400   1,040      540
Total Inflow (5sF)                  440   3,230   2,250   2,000 ) 2,050   2,640   3,900   4,370   5,380   6,380   7,390   8,2400   8,400   8,400
H. 'let Cash Flow (G-D) 2                        40  (1,030) ( 570)   (3CO)   (150)    (20)    9W   1,OPO   1,760   2,230   3,110   3,530   3,310   4,220
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
_- Net Operating Income (1-B)                    40       90     110     220     170      600   1,700   1,840   2,520   3,190   3,870   4,330   4,22C   4,220
J. Net Income without development                40       80      90     200      260     290     340     340      340     340     340      340     340     3L2o
K. lnet Incremental Inoome (T-J)                 -        10      20       20     (80)    310   1,360   1,500   2,18O   2,350   3,530   3,990   3,b80   3,880
Loan Funds:
Eligible for Bank finance 70%            -     2,400   1,040      540
Farmer's contribution 30%                    -     1,020      450     230
Sub-total (Investment)              -    (3,420) (1,490)   (770)    -       (300)    -        -       _      (200)    -        (40)   (150)    1/
Net Incremental Benefit (Cost)               -    (3 4105 (1.4701   (750)    (80)    10   1.360   1.500   2.180   2.650   3.530  31950   3.730           1/
zim~M   naesiaL OAR f atbrnsn  22%
I/  Replacement of tractor and equipmnt included in Years 13 to 20 aS required.
2/ Farmers borrowing to cover operating experBes, pay short-tem  interest out of this net cash flow.  To cover 100% of crop expenses
' J% would cost in Year 1, about Rls 59,000; in Year 7, about Rls 202,000; and in Years 13 to 20, about Rls 334,000 per y,ar.
November 24, 1969



AXMNE 10
Page 1
IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELJ0?IMT FUND
Deciduous Fruit Sub-Project
1.       The project would help finance production of deciduous fruit
on the equivalent of thirty 50-ha farms, totaling 1,500 ha, mostly in
northern Iran. During the first four years, while the trees are
immature, alfalfa hay would be produced from alfalfa planted as a cover
crop. Farmers would guarantee to:
(a)  provide an adequate water supply (as to time, quantity and
quality) - a prerequisite to lending;
(b)  use selected seedlings of well tested, improved varieties;  and
(c)  carry out a well conceived agronomic program including use of
fertilizer and pesticides.
The sub-project, through improved practices and establishment of funda-
mental infrastructure at commercial farm level, would increase overall
annual production by about 26,000 tons deciduous fruit at maturity in
the 12th or 13th year, and about 7,000 tons alfalfa hay up to the 1th
year, when the cover crop would be discontinued.  Under Iranian ecologi-
cal and managerial conditions it would be feasible to obtain 7 cuts of
alfalfa per year from non-specialist farms. Yields are expected to
develop as follows:
Years
Before                                               12
Tons/ha       Develop- 1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  to
ment                                                 20
Existing Decid-
uous Fruit       2    3   5   7  10  13 -16  lo  16  16  16  lo  S16
Alfalfa            0    5   8  10   8   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
New Deciduous
Fruit            0    0   0   0   0   1   2   3   5   7 10  1   18
2.       Prices during the assumed 20 year life of the sub-project are
estirmated to remain at:
(a)  existing deciduous fruit (pears) - Rls 12,000 per ton;
(b) alfalfa hay - Rls 3,000 per ton;
(c) new deciduous fruit (apples) - Rls 10,000 per ton.
Having regard to existing marketing facilities, it has been assumed that
70% of pears produced, 80% of applies and 100% of the alfalfa hay wiould
be commercialized.  The remaining apples and pears would not be of
marketable quality.



A; 10
Page 2
3.       The sub-project would result in major improvements similar to
the citrus sub-project (see Annex 8, para 3) except that 30 km of
irrigation ditches would be lined, instead of 60 km.



ANNEX 11
IR^N
AGMIJLTURAL DVLYN10 FUND
D cidwoua Fruit - Financial Projections
Rials (thous and3)
Before
Dfevelopnt 1         2       3       4        5       6       7       8        9       10     11      12      13-20
OUTFLOW                                                                         Total
(Years 1.2.3)
Capital Expenditure
Land improvement and developmnt          110      245     245      -        490
On-farm irrigation works               1,450   1,770      520      -      2,290
Agricultural rachinary and
equipment 1/                           200      660     -        60       720   200      -       -       -        200             460     -         1/
Construction and installations           700      500     -        -        500
?re-production costs                     -        360     500     500     1,360
Contingencies                            250      355     125      60       540
A.        Sub-total                          2,710   3,890   1,390     620    56900   200       -        -       -       200     -       460      -        1/
O,peratir  -cees
Salag and wages                            80     170     300     350     450      500     550     700     800     900   1,000            1,200   1,200
Annual inputs                             200     170     380      380     650     430     450     500     600      700     800     90C   1,000   1,000
Other, including contingencies             30      30      70      70     110      90      100     120     140    160       180     20C     220      220
B.        Sub-total                            310     370     750     800   1,210   1,020   1,100   i,320   1,540   1,760   1,980   2,200   2,420   2,420
Debt Service
Interest and service charge 8.0%         -        110     260     310     330      330)
Repayment                                 -       -       -       -       -        -                 Equated Annuity
C.        Sub-total                            -       110     260     310      330     330)   790    790       790      790     790     790     790
D.        Total Outflow (A+B+C)                310   4,370   2,400   1,730   1,5L0  1,55o  1,890   2,110   2,330   2,750  2,770   3,450   3,210   2,L20
INFLOW
Sales
Wheat                                     200     -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -       _
Pears                                    170      250     420     590     840   1,090   1,340   l 40   1,340   1,340   1,340   1,340   1,3)40   1,3140
Apples                                    -       -       -       -        -       320     640     960  1,600   2,240   3,200   1,480   5,760   5,760
Alfalfa hay                               -       230     720    900       720     -       -       .       -        -       -       -       -        -
E.        Sub-total                            370     480   1,140   1,490)
F. Loan Funds                                  -     2,730     970     430)
G.        Total Tnflow (7oF)                   370  3,210   2,110   1,920   1,560   1,410   1,980  2,100   2,940  3,580  41,540  5,820   7,100   7,109)
H. Net Cash Flow (G-D) 2/                       60  (1,160)  ( 290)    190       20   ( 140)     70     IFO     610      830   1,770   2,370   3,890   4,6R0
FINANCIAL RATZ OF RETURN
T. Net Operating Income (E-B)                   60     110     390     690     350      390     880     Ad0  1,400   1,820   2,560   3,620   4,680   4 690
J. Net Income without development               60      80     190     310  -00         700     950     950     950      950     950     95°0    950   '950
K. Net Incremental Income (I-J)                -        30     200      380    (150)   (310)    (70)     30      450     870   1,610   2,670   3,730   3,730
Loan Funds:
Eligible for Bank finance 70%             -     2172     (970     430)
Farmer's contribution 30%                            70     42      190)
3ub-total (InvestiLent)             -    (3,890) (1,390)   (620)             (200)                           (200)            (46c)            l/
Net Incremental Benefit (Cost)              -    (3,860) (1,190)   (240)   (150)  '510)    (70)    30        40o    670   1.610   2,210   3,73C       1/
Estirated Financial Rate of Returnt 16%
1/ Replacement of tractor and equipmzt ioluded in Years 13 to 20 as required.
2/ Farmers borrowing to cover operating expenses, pay short-term interest out of this not caah flow. To cver 100% of crop expenses C B%
would cost in Year 1, about Rls 29,500; in Year 7, about Rla 106,000; and in Years 13 to 20, about R1i 194,000 per year.
Yovember 24,1969



XA11X 12
Page 1
IRAR
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEIT FUTJD
Dairy Farm Sab-Project
1.       The project would help finance dairy farming on the equivalent
of ten farms, each with an initial herd of 200 high quality imported
dairy coWs and 80 ha pasture, a total of 2,000 dairy cows and 800 ha
pasture. Sub-project borrowers would be commercial dairy farmers of
proven mangerial ability carrying on a high intensity confinement
system of dairy farming with associated irrigated, well fertilized
pastures on a four year alfalfa/silage crop rotation. In the first
cropping year, 70 ha alfalfa, 10 ha silage crops, wiould be planted;
in the second, 10 ha alfalfa would be replaced with silage crops and
10 ha planted on the former silage land; thereafter approximately 20 ha
alfalfa would be replanted annually. Farmers would:
(a) provide an adequate water supply for cattle and irrigated
pastures - a prerequisite to lending;
(b)  obtain quotations for supply of imported dairy cattle from
at least three sources;
(c) carry out intensive cultivation of fodder crops using
fertilizer, cattle manure and for alfalfa pesticides.
2.       The sub-project would increase overall annual production by
about 11,000 tons milk at full development in the 8th year plus a
modest amount of about 150 tons meat.
3.       The following yields are expected:
Milk    3,900 liters per annum per cow in milking herd.
M4eat:
Kg dressed weight
Cull cowis    230
heifers   140
Calves         18
Years
Alfalfa hay             1    2    3    4    5    6    7
Tons/ha             -   10   12   14   16   18   19



AiTIIEX 12
4.      Prices during the assumied 20 year life of theg 2-project are
expected to remain at:
Milk                     Rls 11/liter
Rials/head
Cull cows                   20,.9000
bulls                  25,000
heifers               10,000
Calves                       1,500
Breeding bulls              60,000
Surplus heifers             37,000
5.       During the herd build-up period, female calves are retained for
breeding. Basic data used for herd projections are!
Year    1     2   3-onwards
Calf birth rate     95%    85%    85%
Mortality - calves   8%      8%     8%
- coWs     4%     3%      2%
- heifers  -      2%      2%o
6.       The sub-project wiould result in the following major improve-
ments:
(a)  drilling and installation of 20 deep wells for irrigation
and water supply;
(b)  development of 800 ha intensive irrigated fodder crops;
(c)  employment of 20 tractors, related farm equipment, implements
and tools;
(d)  10 sets of modern sheds for accommodation of cows, heifers
and calves; and 10 modern milking parlors.



ANNEX 13
AORICULTUIIAL DEVE1LPMENT FUND
Dairy Farms - Financial Projections
Rials(t'.ousands)
year             1       2       3       4        5        6        7        8       9       10       11       12      13-20
OTFLOW                                                                   Total
(Years 1+Z+3)
Capital Expenditure
breediLng stock                            -    12,490      -       12,4901'
Buildings and installations              3,840   1,910     860       6,610
On-farm irrigation worlm                 2,900     100               3,000
Agricultural mechinery and                                                                                                                           /
equipment                                660      760    290       1,710  380      -        -        470      -        570      380      290      -
Land improverent and development           360     330    100          790
Contingsncies ~5%)                         390     780      60       1,230
A.      Sub-total                            8,150   16,370   1,310     25 830 380       -        -        470      -        570      380     29C
Operatin  Expenses
l     and wages                          400     800    85C      870      B70      970      970      970      970      970      970     970       970
Fodder                                     -      2,740   3,320   3,850    4,140    4,780    5,100    5,230    5,270    5,270   5,270    5,270    5,270
Other, including contingencies             430   1,290   1,750   1,760   2,140    2,230    2,270    2,280    2,280    2,280    2,280    2,280    2,280
B.     Sub-total                               830   4,830   5,920   6,480    7,150    7,98O   8,340    8,480    8,520    8,520    8,520    8,520    8,520
Bebt Service
interest and service charge 8.0%           230     920  1,420   1,450    1,45o)
Repayment                                  -       -       -       -           )                    Equated Annuity
C.     Sub-total                               230      920   1,420   1,450   1,450)  3,470    3,470    3,470    3,470    3,470    3,h70    3,470      -
D.     Total Ontflow (A.B.c)                 9,210   22,120   8,650  7,930   8,980   11,450  11,810   12,420   11,990   12,560   12,370  12,280    8,520
INFL4W
Sales
Yilk                                       -      8,580   8,140   7,700    9,570   11,000   11,550   11,770   11,770   11,770   11,770   11,770   11,770
Animals                                    -       170    250    300        730      920   1,970    2,670    2,910    2,980    3,020    3,020    3,020
Alfa lfa hay                               950     -       -       280      400      300      200      -        -        -        -        -       -
E.     Sulb-total                              950   8,750   8,390
F. [an Funds                                 5,700  11,460    920
G.     Total Inflow (E+F)                    6,650   20,210  9,310 ) 8,280  10,700   12,220  13,720  14,440   14,680   14,750   14,790  1I,790   14,790
H.Net Cash Flow      (G-D)3/                (2,560) ( 1,910)   660    350   1,720        770   1,910    2,020    2,690    2,190    2,420    2,510)   6,270
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
I.Net Operating Income (E-R)                  120    3,920   2,470   1,800    3,550    4,240   5,380    5,960    6,160    6,230    6,270    6,270    6,270
Loan Funds:
21igible for 9ank finance  )70%     (5,400) (11 110)  (790)
Ineligible for Bank finano)            (300)   (350)  (130)
Farmers' contribution           30%      (2,450)  (4 ,9101  (390)
Sub-total (Investm.ent)             (8,150) (16,370) (1,310)   -       (380)    -         -       (470)    -        (570)   (380)   (290)
Net Benefit (Cost)                        (8,030) (12,450) 1,160   1,800    3,170   4,240   5,380    5,490    6,160    5,660    5,890    5,980       2/
Estimated Fimnoial Rate of Return:186
1/ Replacements from retentions.
2/ Replacement of tractors and equipment included in Years 13-20 as required.
3/ Farmers borrowing  to cover operating expensea, py short-term interest out of this net cash flow. To cover 100% of operating costs 6 8%
would cost in Year 1 Els 67,000; Year 7 Rls 667,000; Year 12 Els 681,00C.
November 24,1969



=HJEK 14
IRA_1
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPiENT FUDM
Sheep Sub-Project
1.       The project would help finance sheep breeding and lamb produc-
tion for meat on the equivalent of ten units, each with 500 selected
breeding ewes and one unit with 5,000, a total of 10,000. The large
unit would be on the Shrine farm at Mashhad, an efficiently run multi-
purpose farm, which grows mainly wh_at and sugarbeet.  Other sub-
project borrowers would be established farmers engaged in some maJor
agricultural activity with crop residues and fallow available for sheep.
This feed would be supplemented with planted alfalfa, or other fodder
crop, and purchased concentrates. Typically, sub-project farms would
have 200 ha under irrigation in rotation on a 500-ha farm.
2.       Serving mainly as a demonstration of improved practices, the
sub-project would increase overall annual production of meat by about
300 tons (250 lamb, 50 mutton) and of wool 'oy about 10 tons.
3.       The following yields are expected:
Liveweight
Lambs:       40 kg, at 7 months, after 100 days' fattening
Cull ev-cs:   50 kg
Cull rams:   60 kg
Wool:         1 kg per head per year
4.       The liveweight price of lambs and sheep is assumed to remain
constant at about Bls 40/kg (US$ 0.24/lb), though some improvement may
be hoped for if the Government Meat Organization is able to improve
marketing practices.
5.       Basic data for flock projections are:
Year         1     2     3      [ onwards
Weaning rate   %     75    80    80      85
Mortality      %      5     14   14       4
EDe culling    %      -    10    20      20
6,,      The sub-project would result in construction of modern shed
corrals and feed lots for the breeding ewes and about 160 ha intensive
irrigated fodder.



ANNEX 15
IRAN
A(RICUVLURAL D ELOP l FUND
Sheep Farms - Financial Projections
Rials(thouasands)
1          2      3       4      5       6       7      8       9     10    11-20
Capital Exoenciiture
3reeding Stock                            1 045/
Buildings                                   400
Pasture establishment                        79
Contingencies (10.)                        156
A.      bub-total                             1,680
Qperatu;jj Ixenses
Salaries and wages                           72        72      72     72      72      72     72      72     72      72      72
Fodder                                      238       265    302    302    302    302    302    302    B02    302    302
Other, including
contingencies                              40        53     56      56      66     46      46     46      46      46     46
i.      Cub-total                               350       390    430    430    440    420    420    420    42(.   420   _420
iebt _orvice
Interast -in ,ervice Charge 8.05             5)        9o)
Re?saynen'                                   -         -?                        Ecuated Annuity
'bub-total                              50        90)   205    205    205    205    205    205    205    205           -
.>      Total (Utf_T  i (A+B-C)               2,080       48C    635    635    645    625    625    625    625    625    42C
IIFLCIS
.ales
loeat                                       h4C       507    644    694    694    684    684    684    684    684    654
Clool                                       04        33      36      36     36      36      36     36      36     36      36
Cub-total                               480)
'.  Loan FaiAds                               1,1B)
.ot-.l Inflou (E+F)                   1,660)      540    680    730    730    720    720    720    720    720    72C
i.4et Cash Flow (G-D)2/                    (42C)       60      45     95      85      95     95      95     95      95    300
FfLINCIAL ldATE OF EETURlI
I.'Iet Operat-ing Income (E-B)                   130      150    250    300    290    300    300    300    300    300    300
Loan Funds:
Eligible for Bank finance  )70           (1,180)
Ineligible for Bank finance)                  -
Farmers contribution          305         ( 500)
'Cub-total (Investment)                (1,680)
let Benefit (Cost)                       (1,550)      150    250    300    290    300    3C0    300    300    300    300
Estimated Financial Rate of Return: 16%5
L/  :eplacements from retentions.
F/ Farmers borro-iTng to cover operating expenses, pay short-term interest out of this net cash flow.
To cover IOCC of operating costs 9 8.0% would cost, in Year 1 Rls 28,0oo; from Year 6 onwards, Rls 3l,000.
Nw ember 24, 1969



AU1'L,X 16
IRAN
AGRICULTURL DEVELOPiENT FUND
IMiarketing of Project Products
1.      Iranian vegetable oil consumption, which rose from abolt 50,000 tons
in 1963 to almost 130,000 tons in 1967, has been met, to a large extent, by
imports (21,000 tons worth Rls 550 million to 88,000 tons worth Rls 1,700
million during the same period). The main domestic source has been cottonseed
which provided 35,000 tons in 1968. About 3,500 tons was produced from other
domestic sources in 1968. The industry estimates domestic consumption will
increase at about 8% per annum, or to about 190,000 tons by 1972. Cottonseed
production is not expected to increase much, because an expected decline in
the world market cotton price will discourage Iranian growers. Iuch of the
future demand for vegetable oil will therefore have to come from imports, or
from alternative local sources.  Animal fats, which are another alternative,
are relatively expensive, averaging Rls 20O/kg as compared to Rls 40/kg for
vegetable shortening.
2.      Government is concerned about rising vegetable oil imports and has
imposed tariffs between Rls 10 and 40 Rls/kilo depending on type. The six
leading oilseed processors (over 90% of industry sales) have recently formed
an Oil Seed Development Company to stimulate domestic production. The Company
is at present financed by a 10% levy on crude oil imports. The Company
finances technical assistance to oilseed growers, oilseed research and sub-
sizided seed (for planting), and plans to expand production of oil from sub-
flower (80% of production) and soya beans (20%) to 55,000 tons by 1972 from
the present 3,500 tons. If it succeeds, the 1972 supply would be approximately:
Oil Source                 Tons/year
Cottonseed                  50,000
Other oilseeds              55,000
Imports              70,000
Total ConFumption        175,000
These figures compare with the estimated 3,000 tons oil production from oil-
seeds to be financed under the project.
3.      Existing vegetable oil plants, producing mainly vegetable shortening,
have sales of about Rls 18,750 million ($250 million) annually and a daily
crushing capacity of about 1,200-1,400 tons of various types of seeds. Except
for silos, plant and equipment is adequate to meet present processing needs.
4.      Government has set the price at which the vegetable oil plants purchase
seed from the farmer at Rls 13,500 per ton for sunflower and Rls 10,000 for
soya bean. Prices of vegetable crude oil are still high in Iran at about
Rls 16,500 (US$220) per ton, and Government espects tho raw material price
to fall by 8-9% during the next few years, as local production increases.
The world market price is about US$165, or say U$~2Co, delivered Tehran.



'AT.x 1 6
Page 2
Orchard Crops
5.      The Plan Organization estimates 1967 production of fruits and nuts at
1.3 million tons, including about 500,000 tons grapes, 280,000 tons dates,
110,000 tons citrus and 80,000 tons apples and pears. Fruit imports are
negligible, mainly because of controls introduced in 1962. Exports of fruit
and nuts in 1967 (mainly dried fruits and pistachio) totaled Rls 1,600 million
(US$ 21 million).
6.      Fruit marketing costs are very high.  The farmer normally sells to a
wholesaler, frequently while fruit is still on the tree. Sorting, packaging,
storage and transportation are often primitive, resulting in high spoilage, great
seasonal price fluctuation and low quality. Monopsonistic elements encourage
wide wholesale and retail price margins and low farm-gate prices. FAO has esti-
mated the farm-gate price of oranges, for example, as about 26% of retail, inter-
mediary margins about 35%, retailer margins about 20%, and transport and marketing
about 19. Average annual farm prices are currently about Rls 12/kg oranges,
Rls 10/kg apples and Rls 12/kg pears.
7.      The Plan Organization estimates 1972 domestic demand for fruit at 1.8
million tons which is 400,000 more than expected production. For the longer run,
another study estimates domestic demand will be 2.8 million tons in 1980.* There
is also the possibility of expanding exports of fruit, particularly grapes and
raisins, which have in recent years been increasingly acceptable in Kuwait and
other Persian Gulf countries.
8.      While domestic production from already planted immature trees will increase,
severe frosts in 1968 will have cut back northern production, perhaps permanently.
At full production, project orchards would produce about 40,000 tons fruit.
Milk
9.      Although milk production in Iran has risen gradually and irregularly over
the last five years, it has increasingly failed to meet domestic requirements
and dairy imports have risen from Rls 284 million in 1963-64 to over Rls 400
million in 1967. Per capita consumption of dairy products in Iran is low, being
only about one-third that of the U.S. and many European countries. The Plan
Organization estimates that during the Fourth Plan, demand for dairy products will
increase at about 12% per annum.
10.     The main milk marketing problem has been substituting demand for pasteur-
ized milk for the more traditional demand for non-pasteurized milk, frequently
sold for slightly lower prices in the bazaar. In most areas, Tehran excepted,
pasteurized milk plants (of which there are seven in different cities) are oper-
ating far below their rated capacity because of the slow growth in demand for
their main product. In Tehran, however, the Government owned and operated
milk plant aiid the small private milk plant operate at full capacity; the
Government plant, producirng 130/tons a day and accounting for almost all the
non-bazaar milk sales.
* Progress Report: Agricultural Development for Greater Bandar Abbas
Region, 1966.



1LtEX 16
Page 3
One source estimates milk plants accounted for 33% of total Tehran supplies
in 1966; bazaar supplies 25% and imports 42<. Deliveries of raw milk to the
Government plant rose from 24.1 million liters in 1963 to 47.0 million in
1968. The sale of major products was:
1963     1968
.. Millions..
Bottled milk (1-2 liter)           9.1     17.5
Bottled milk (1¼ liter)           33.2     71.5
Bottled yogurt (1/3 liter)         9.0     14.0
Packed butter (100 gm. units)      6.8     11.4
Plans are now in hand to expand plant production from 130 to 300 tons/day.
Additional demand is expected to come from:
a) continued substitution of pasteurized for bazaar milk resulting
from a growing acceptance by an urban population;
b) introduction of milk into more distant rural areas through the
planned introduction of sterilized or long-life milk in tetrapak containers;
c) plans to introduce legislation making pasteurized milk compulsory
in the major cities of Iran;
d) existing legislation requiring factories to give a daily ration of
milk to their workers;
e) the Governmentts intention more vigorously to expand schemes for
pasteurized milk in schools; and
f) more active public promotion by the pasteurized milk plants.
The structure of milk prices established by the Government dairy is:
Producer price (4% butterfat)    11.0    Rls/liter
Processing margins                 4.0
Distribution margin                3.0
Retail price (2.5% butterfat)    i.0,
The margin between the producer and retail price of milk appears unusually
small, but the dairy buys milk with an average butterfat content of 4p, and
sells it with 2.5$, retaining the difference for production of butter and
other dairy products. The price of milk has been relatively constant over
the last several years and is likely to remain at this level unless continued
pressure by dairy farmers forces some slight increases in the future.
Hleat
11.      Iran has a severe meat shortage and between 1963 and 1967 annual meat
imports averaged Rls 40.7 million and live cattle and sheep irports Rls 70.9
million.  With fluctuations, there has been a slowly rising import trend.  Per
capita consumption of meat was about 13.6 kg in 1966 being less than a quarter
of many European countries.  Meat consumption in Tehran is higher than the rest



,T2X 16
of the country, but production has not kept pace with the growing population,
with consequent sharp increases in meat prices, and per capita consumption fell
from 25.79 kg in 1959 to 18.7 kg in 1966. While the general cost of living has
increased only 19, between 1959 and 1967, the retail prices of mutton, beef and
chicken increased 79%, 197% and 22% respectively, despite Government efforts to
hold prices down through imports and direct price control. The major meat buyers
in the Tehran area are the Beef Syndicate and the Mutton Syndicate which enjoy
exclusive slaughter rights. The wholesale price structure for mutton is:
ils per kg
Average annual price in Tehran livestock market            80.92
Average annual wholesale price                             72.68
Average cost of slaughtering, taxes, administration
and other charges                                         4.33
Value of skins and saleable offal                          14.66
Net wholesale value of meat, skins and offal               83.01
Estimated profit of wholesaling                             2.09
As the above table shows, the meat syndicate profits from the sale of skins and
offals for which the farmer is not paid separately. Purchase on the basis of
dressed carcass weight automatically makes it more profitable for the syndicates
to buy two lean animals than one fat having the same total carcass weight,
because the syndicate gets two skins and two sets of offals from the lean animals
for the same price as one set from the fat animal. This practice, coupled with
official pricing that disregards carcass quality, is a disincentive to the
introduction of proper husbandry methods. Retail meat prices are controlled by
Government, somewhat ineffectively, for the benefit of the urban consumer. Since
controlled prices have not taken into account rising production costs, there has
been little incentive for increased production. Nevertheless the Plan Organi-
zation estimates mutton, beef and poultry demand will increase during the Fourth
Plan by 53,000, 13,000 and 9,000 tons respectively. Project sheep farms, at
full production, would supply a relatively small amount of mutton.



IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP.ENT FUND
PROJECTED INVESTPENT BY CATEGORIES                            (US$' CCc)
ESTIMATED
(Pials t000,000)                                 FOREIGN EXCHANGE
OIL-           DECIDUOUS   DAIRY   SHEEP &                         COMPONENT
CATEGORIES             SEEDS   CITRUS    FRUIT    CATTLE  POULTRY  TOTAL        TOTAL            A
I. Agricultural Production
1. Land improvement &
development                 5.0    47.7      47.6        7.9      1.8     110.0    1,480      27       40O
2. On-farm irrigation
worka                     175.0    68.4      68.6       30.0       -      342.0    4,560      60     25740
3. Agricultural machinery
& equipment                35.0    14.7       21.6      17.1     28.6     117.0    1,56o      80     1,240
4. Buildings, construction
& installation             25.0    15.0      15.0       66.1     44.9     166.0    2,220      22       480
5. Planting material              -      9.0        8.0        -        -       17.0       210     -        -
6. Livestock                      -       -          -      124.9     29.1     154.0    2,050      70     1,420
7. Contingencies
& other                    24.0    15.6       16.2      12.3      7.9      76.0    1,010      51       520
Sub-total            264.0   170.4     177.0      258.3    112.3     982.0   13,090      51     6,800
II. Preparation, Packaging
& Storage                                                                    214.0    2, 850     70     2,000
III. Technical Assistance                                                             7.5       100    100       100
Total Project Cost                                                 1,203.5   16,040      56     8,900   t4



ANNEX 18
IRAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPME2T FUND
ESTIMATED PROJECT CASH FLOW
Rials (Million)
Totals
Fiscal Year Ending June 20        1970      1971      1972      1973     1974      1975   1970/75
Source of Funds
IBRD
Purpose:
Loans V                      105.0    292.5       82.5                                 480.o
Technical Assistance           3-8       3.7                                              7.5
Sub-total              108.8    296.2        82.5                                 487.5
Government
Purpose:
Loans:
Equity finance              74.0    137.7                                            211.7
Loan finance                         91.8       53.5                                 145.3
Sub-total               74.0    229.5       -53.5                                 357.0
Borrowers
Interest and repayments             _.1             72.6)   105,2    126.0  115.8       518.0
Total Sources           195.2    580.8      208.6)   105.2    126.9  145.8   1,362.5
Application of Funds
Borrowers
Loans Granted                  180.0    517.5       138.8                                 836.3
Expenses
Administration                  11.2      20.8       20.8      4.0       4.0    4-0        64.8
Technical Assistance             3.8       3.7                                              7.5
Sub-total               15.0      24.5       20.8       4.0       4.0    4.0       72.3
Interest and repayments:
IBRD (and commitment fee)        2.7      19.7       31.5     34.0      65.o   65.o       217.9
Government 4/                              2.1        5.3      6.5       6.5   13.2        33.6
Sub-total                2.7      21.8       36.8      40.5      71.5   78.2      251.5
Total Application          197.7    563.8      196.4      44.5      75.5   82.2   1,160.1
Net Cash Flow                        (2-5)    17.0       12.2      60.7      51.4   63.6      202.4
Cumulative 5-                      (2.5)    14.5       26.7      87.4    138.8  202.4
1/  Four-sevenths of eligible ADFI lending.
2/ Last project loan repayment in 1981/82 (13th year).
3/ Terms varying from 6 years with no grace period, for poultry, to 12 years with
5 years' grace period for tree crops and dairy.
4/ Fifteen-year loan including 4 years' grace period, repayments by equated annuity at 4~9.
§/  Continues positive with estimated maximum of Us 470 million in 1979/80.
November 2h,1969



ANNX 19
IRAN
AaJICULTURAL DIEV=JOFET FUND
Economric Rate of Return
Rials (thousands)
BENEFITS              C OS T S
Year    Incremental      Investment  Incremental      Administration      TOTAL        Net
Sales                       Operating                          COSTS
1         44s900         255,270        34,570           13,800         303,640   (258,740)
2        170,840         531,980      115,290            23,1400        670,670   (k2A,°)'
3        2441,530        164,070      153,890            20,800         338,760    ( 94,230)
4        265,250          42,680      173,400             4SOOO         220,080      45,170
5        296,430           9,400      195,960             4,000         209,360      87,070
6        341,090          16,900       200,960            4,000         221,780    119,310
7        393,970            -         214,780             4,000         218,860    175,110
8        437,370           6,520      233,780             4,000         244,300    193,070
9        491,570          14,680      250,650             3,000         268,330    223,240
10        545,620         114,600      266,820             3,000         284,420    261,200
11        608,470          17,250 266,580                  3,000         306,830    301,640
12        668,270          16,930      305,280             3,000         325,210    343,060
13        692,870          10,120      311,880              _            322,000    370,870
1h        692,870           3,000      311,880              _            314,880    377,990
15        692,870           4,650      311,880              _            316,530    376,340
16        634,280           9,750      282,540              _            292,290    341,990
17        553,610           4,350      225,640              -            229,990    323,620
18        553,610           4,000      225,640              -            229,640    323,970
19        553,610            -         225,640              -            225,640    327,970
20        553,610             280      225,640              -            225,920    327,690
21        317,050             290      132,820              _            133,110    183,940
Estimated Economic Rate of Return: 17%



IRAN: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
ORGANOGRAM
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INSPECTOR        ,      _HIGH COUNCIL
PRESIDENT
ALUDITORS   |                  I)LOAN COMMITTEE 
I ADVISOR l
I  EXECU TIVE 
VICE PRESIDENT*
VICE PRESIDENT**                                                          VICE PRESIDENT**
ADMINISTRATION                                                               PROJECTS
APREPARATION|               I
-E ~~~~~~~~  I~~ SUPERVISIOl
*Vacant.
"At present occupied by Administration and Projects Directors.
May 1969                                                                                                   IBRD-4415



IRAN
/    )                                   A~~~~~~~~~~GRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  FUN
I~~~~~TBI
4SHT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHA
m ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ RA                   AD DSR ANP
h         h,~~~~~~~~~ 
A'   U            .A5
RIWANSHAH~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(RA
.5 F A   HK      I  1  AIVZalAaa N 
F   A  R  S  K>~~~~~~G   E   T S   ND   DE   ER4
-V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V;
SHIRABNARBA                                             B L CIST 
S                                                                                                        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                    
,If  of  0,
JUNE 1969                                                                                                                                       IBRD-2597R



