Report No. PIC843
Project                          Malawi-Population/Family Planning Project (@
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Population Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       MWPE36038
Borrower                         Government of Malawi
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Population
Attention
Dr. Mukiwa, Permanent Secretary
P. 0. Box 30377, Capital City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Phone (265) 783-044
Fax (265) 783-109
Date this PID Prepared           March 20, 1997
Date this PID Revised            March 24, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         March 6, 1998
Projected Board Date             August 19, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background. The population growth rate of
Malawi stands at around 3.0 percent (excluding migration and
refugees), which is about 10 percent higher than the average growth
rate for Sub-Saharan Africa. Malawi's growth rate implies that its
population of 11 million will double within 20 years. Poverty is
widespread and concentrated in rural areas. Government is committed
to making poverty alleviation the major emphasis of its policy, and
rapid population growth has a negative impact on this policy. Rapid
population growth places pressures on natural resources, social
services and labor markets. In addition, the combination of lower
quality of land currently not under cultivation and present land
holdings in many areas that is insufficient for subsistence
production, the threat of malnutrition is ever present. With a
youthful population (over 45 percent of the population is under 15
years), the demand for health and education will increase and the
ability of the system to maintain quality will be an issue.
According to the 1992 Population Sector Study (8513-MAI), an annual
savings of US$2 million could be realized in maternal and child
health care and primary education by the year 2005 under a moderate
fertility decline scenario. This amount would increase to US$7-9
million if the decline were rapid. Prior to the introduction of the
multi-party system in Malawi, one could not speak of family
planning, and the phrase child spacing was used instead. Since
1994, however, Government has adopted a National Population Policy
whose main objective is to improve the standard of living and
quality of life in Malawi through reduction of fertility, infant,
child and maternal mortality rates. The Policy's strategies are
making family planning services available to all men and women in
reproductive ages, increasing the number of service delivery points
and launching an extensive nation-wide IEC campaign on the
advantages of a small family size. A Population/Family Planning



Sector Study (June 1995) was carried out in collaboration with a
Population Task Force convened by the Government of Malawi to
advise on issues relating to population.
2.      Project Objectives. In order to assist Government in its
poverty alleviation goals in the medium- and long-term, and in line
with the National Population Policy objectives, the Project
objectives would be to: (a) improve reproductive health services
and increase the contraceptive prevalence rate using modern methods
from 7% to 28% and thereby reduce the high total fertility rate of
6.7 and the large family size; (b) reduce high maternal, infant and
child mortality rates; and (c) ultimately, reduce the population
growth rate of around 3 percent per annum. To achieve these
objectives, the project plans to increase access to, availability
and quality of family planning services, and improve the method
mix; and increase the demand for family planning through targeted
population/family planning IEC. The proposed project would also
address problems facing youth.
3.      Project Description. The Project will provide support for
reproductive health services and for carrying out the Population
Policy through (a) rehabilitation and expansion of static
facilities; (b) expansion of community-based distribution; and (c)
strengthening information, education and communication (IEC)
activities. This support will be in the form of capacity building
through the training of service providers, and the restructuring
and development of alternative delivery systems. Since current
activities are at their nascence, it is envisaged that support will
need to be provided on the policy front. Activities with the
highest value-added, in terms of their potential contribution to
filling gaps in Government and donor funded programs, will be given
higher priority for funding purposes.
4.      Project Financing. Total project costs are estimated to be
US$30 million over a five year period. Interest in co-financing has
been expressed but no firm commitments have been made. Major donors
such as UNFPA, USAID, and ODA have on-going activities in the
sector. Every effort will be made to ensure that duplication is
avoided and complementarity sought where appropriate. Government's
contribution to the Project is expected to be a minimum of 10
percent, and the remainder of the funding will be provided by IDA.
5.      Project Implementation. It is anticipated that the Ministry
of Health and Population, Ministry of Economic, Planning and
Development and the National Family Welfare Council, a parastatal
under the Ministry of Women's and Children's Affairs will each have
a role to play in the Project. The modalities for implementing the
Project will have to be discussed within Government and a decision
taken as to who should take the lead.
6.      Environmental Aspects. As the project mainly focuses on
strengthening reproductive health and expanding population/family
planning interventions, which would involve some infrastructure,
capacity building, and IEC activities, it would have limited impact
on the environment and therefore an environment category of C is
-2 -



proposed. Furthermore, the reduced population growth deriving from
the Project should have a positive impact on the environment.
7.      Program Objective Categories. The Project is part of the core
poverty program for Malawi and is proposed and included in the
program of targeted interventions.
Contact Point            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.   (202) 458-5454
Fax No. (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997
- 3 -



