                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27059

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-31330)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
                                   (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                     GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI

                                                 FOR A

                         POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT




                                              May 25, 2004




Human Development 1
Country Department 3
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective June 30,1998)

                                  Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
                                      MK 26.45 = US$ 1
                                    US$ 1.3315 = SDR1
     NB: On September 17, 1998 after this Project was negotiated the Exchange Rate moved to
                                       MK1=US$0.0227
                                      US$1=MK44.0000

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1    June 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS       Aquired immunodeficiency Syndrome
ARSH       Adolescent Reproductive and Sexual Health
BLM        Banja La Mtsogolo
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBD        Community-Based Distribution
CBDA       Community-Based Distribution Agent
CBO        Community-Based Organization
CBDO       Community-Based Distribution Officer
CDD        Community-Driven Development
CDLMIS     Contraceptive Distribution Logistics Management Information System
CHAM       Christian Health Association of Malawi
CHW        Community Health Worker
CAN        Community Nexus Approach
CPR        Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DDLGA      Department of District & Local Government Administration
DfID       Department for International Development (UK)
DHMT       District Health Management Team
DHO        District Health Officer
DHS        Demographic and Health Survey
EU         European Union
GOM        Government of Malawi
GTZ        Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HIV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HMIS       Health Management Information System
HSA        Health Surveillance Assistants
IDA        International Development Association
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
IUCD       Intra-uterine Contraceptive Device
JICA       Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KAP        Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
MA         Medical Assistant
MIS        Management information System

MOHP        Ministry of Health and Population
NFPCM       National Family Planning Council of Malawi
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
PAC         Post-Abortion Care
PHN         Population, Health & Nutrition
PHRDU       Population and Human Resource Development Unit
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPT         Project Preparation Team
PSC         Project Steering Committee
PSI         Population Services International
RHU         Reproductive Health Unit
RNM         Registered Nurse Midwife
SSA         Sub-Saharan Africa
STD/STI     Sexually Transmitted Disease/Sexually Transmitted Infections
SWAp        Sector Wide Approach
TFR         Total Fertility Rate
UNFPAUnited Nations Population Fund
UNICEF      United Nations International Children's Fund
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WHO         World Health Organization

                                 Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                                Country Director     Hartwig Schafer
                                Sector Manager       Dzingai Mutumbuka
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Ramesh Govindaraj

                                           MALAWI
                            Population and Family Planning Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38

Project ID: P036038                                                  Project Name: Population and Family Planning Project
Team Leader: Ramesh Govindaraj                                       TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Population and Family Planning Project                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-31330
   Country/Department: MALAWI                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (99%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Population and reproductive
                            health (P); HIV/AIDS (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1998                                     Effective: 04/14/1999                04/14/1999
     Appraisal: 09/23/1998                                         MTR: 03/02/2001                  03/02/2001
      Approval: 09/23/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI/MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:             Ramesh Govindaraj                              Norbert O. Mugwagwa
ICR Primary Author:             Khama Odera Rogo


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Population and Family Planning (Pop/FP) project was a LIL. The objective of the project was to test
the feasibility of a comprehensive and district-wide Community Based Distribution (CBD) approach to
Population and Family Planning Services in three districts by the public sector, thereby increasing the
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) for modern methods. The objective was to be obtained through: (a)
increased knowledge and improved attitude, leading to increased demand for FP services; and (b) increased
access to FP services for men, women, and adolescents in rural and under-served areas of Malawi.

The objective was considered relevant, appropriate and achievable. Although fertility had declined from
7.6 to 6.7 between 1984 and 1992, Malawi still had one of the highest Total Fertility Rates (TFR) in
sub-Sahara Africa that was undermining the Government's efforts to reduce poverty. The 1994 National
Population Policy spelled out the Government of Malawi's intention to improve the standards of living and
quality of life of Malawians and to reduce both maternal and child mortality by rapidly raising the
contraceptive prevalence rate to 28% by the year 2002. In addition, the CAS of 1997 (18349-MAI), had
identified population control and human resource development as one of the three strategies for poverty
reduction and increased economic growth in Malawi. The 1992 Malawi Demographic Health Survey
(DHS) had confirmed large unmet need for contraception which was attributed to limited access to FP
services. In response, community based distribution of contraceptives had been introduced into the country
initially by the Family Planning Welfare Council (FPWC) of Malawi, followed later by other
non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Some of the pilot CBD projects had shown great promise but
were either too small or were not systematically followed up for a long enough to assess their full potential.
During that very period, information from both Zimbabwe and Kenya indicated that the rapid FP uptake
realized in the two countries was largely attributable to successful implementation of large CBD programs.
Thus, a valid reason could be made for testing a district-wide CBD program in Malawi.

The target audience for the project included, the Ministry of Health and Population, the former National
Family Planning Council (later proscribed), academic institutions and other stakeholders who were
expected to use the results and lessons learned to argue for a national CBD program. The ultimate
beneficiaries would, therefore, be men and women in the reproductive age groups, including adolescents,
resident in difficult to reach areas of Malawi.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the project objectives were not revised, new targets were set during the Mid-Term Review
(MTR). This was necessitated by the new data from the Malawi Demographic and Health Survey (DHS
2000) and the baseline survey which found that knowledge of family planning and contraceptive prevalence
in both the pilot and control districts were higher than had been estimated at entry.

3.3 Original Components:
The project originally had four components:
Information, Education and Communication. This component would mobilize and sensitize
communities, thus creating demand for family planning and other reproductive health (RH) services. The
component would also support development, production and dissemination of IEC materials on advantages
and safety of FP, dangers of STD/AIDS, and behavior change by youth and men.
Community Based Distribution of Contraceptives. This component would support District Health
Management Teams (DHMTs) to recruit, train and supervise Community-Based Distribution Agents
(CBDAs), train their supervisors, provide allowances and appropriate modes of transportation.
Strengthening Clinical Back-up. This component would strengthen the capacity of skilled health workers



                                                      - 2 -

and clinics to support CBDAs through training, supervision, coordination, management of an effective
logistical system and provision of essential equipment and STI drugs.
Training. The component supported development of training, supervision and service delivery protocols
for all providers and clinics at all levels - from the CBDAs at the community level to the skilled providers
at Health Centers and District Hospitals. The intention of the component was to expand choice of family
planning methods and provide a full range of reproductive health services.
3.4 Revised Components:
Although monitoring and evaluation was to be built into each of the above components, it was treated
separately during implementation. Based on the MTR recommendations, "Male Involvement" and "Youth"
were also given special attention, as away of enhancing attention to these issues.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group formally rated the quality at the entry of this project as satisfactory. The
ICR review of the preparation also concluded that the quality of entry was satisfactory.

Project concept and design: As stated above, the project concept was sound since the Government of
Malawi was keen to explore innovative ways of accelerating family planning uptake and CBD programs
had shown great promise in neighboring countries. The proposal was also consistent with the CAS, in line
with prevailing government policy, and supported the plan of action of the International Conference for
Population and Development (ICPD - Cairo 1994) to which Malawi was a signatory. In this context,
family planning services would be provided as part of a larger reproductive health package and
uninterrupted supply of FP commodities was guaranteed by the government. The study focussed on
hard-to-reach rural areas where the majority of Malawians live. While attempting to address the common
issues of inequity, the study findings would be applicable to most, if not all, of Malawi. As a LIL, rigorous
testing of the hypothesis was necessary. This was ensured in the design by selecting control districts and
using the same instruments to collect both the baseline and end project data. The three pilot districts
represented the main regions of North, Central and South. The control districts (see Map) were adjacent to
the control ones with which they shared comparable socio-demographic characteristics such as household
composition (female headship and number of residents), environmental exposure (water sources, latrines)
and backgrounds of respondents (age, education, marital status). The total population of the six districts
was 1.56 million (one sixth of the population of Malawi), broken down as follows: Chitipa - 126,799;
Karonga - 194,572; Ntchisi - 167,880; Dowa - 411,387; Chiradzulu - 236,050; and Mulanje - 428,332.

         POPULATION BREAKDOWN OF PILOT AND CONTROL DISTRICTS BY GENDER/
         REPRODUCTIVE AGE GROUP
          DISTRICT               TOTAL                 MALE       FEMALE         MALE       FEMALE
                                 POPULATION                                      15-49      15-49
         CHITIPA                 126,799               60,117     66,117         24,759     29,582
         KARONGA                194,572                93,673     100,899        88,354     47,669
         DOWA                   411,387                203,828    207,559        186,195    95,323
         NTCHISI                167,880                83,595     84,285         75,106     37,954
         CHIRADZULU             236,050                111,376    124,674        45,909     59,364
         MULANJE                 428,332               218,381    240,595        89,929     112,193

Implementation arrangements: A Project Management Team (PMT) was established in order to reduce
bureaucracy and facilitate interaction with other stakeholders, especially NGOs and CBOs. This was a
good strategy in the context of Malawi, where previous Bank projects had been hampered by inertia and
slow decision-making within the Ministry of Health. The project relied heavily on CBDAs for service
delivery. Given the shortage of skilled health staff in Malawi, this was deemed a more appropriate



                                                       - 3 -

approach the country compared to other neighbors with more resources. The flexibility to work with the
private sector was also an advantage more so for post-abortion care, IEC, youth activities and
long-term/surgical contraception where they worked closely with Banja La Mtsongolo (BML). Early
delegation of responsibility for monitoring, supervision, and training to the districts is commended as it
built local capacity which would be critical for sustainability, an important consideration for the LIL.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of project objectives is deemed satisfactory. In addition, the project proved the
hypothesis that district wide implementation of CBD activities could be done succesfully in Malawi. This
rating is based on the following considerations:

The end-project survey showed that 95% of the adult population in control districts held a positive view of
family planning. Contraceptive use also doubled in all villages covered in the pilot districts while CPR rose
from about 20% to 36%. This was an uprecedented family planning uptake given the backdrop of a
devastating drought and famine that hit Malawi at the time of the project

The project recruited and trained almost twice as many CBDAs as originally planned (172 instead of 100)
while maintaining a very low rate of attrition (only six CBDAs were lost, mostly through natural causes).
An additional 270 Health Surveillance Assistants (HSAs) were also trained in family planning and
reproductive health both as supervisors of CBDAs and as providers. This was in line with the new
government policy to strengthen the capacity of HSAs to supervise CBDAs and other Community Health
Workers (CHWs).

All the CBDAs exceeded the target of 200 for new clients recruited. The CPR attained in the pilot districts
within the short life of the project surpassed what was the national targets for 2012. It was confirmed by
the end-project survey that CBDAs were a significant source of contraceptives, hence contributed to the
improvement in CPR. Effective referrals were established between CBDAs and the facilities, especially for
long-term and permanent methods of family planning. This is confirmed by the large number of clients
who accepted injectables and surgical contraception. The project completed all the trainings and provided
both STI drugs and reproductive health equipment as planned. This strengthened the capacity of health
facilities to provide a wider range of RH services, including Youth Friendly Health Services (YFHS) and
Post-Abortion Care (PAC).
Concerns over sustainability have also been addressed.

Finally, the project has came out clear lessons which the Ministry of Health (MOH) has adopted and is
already being replicated. These lessons are applicable beyond Malawi.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Information, Education and Communication. This component is rated as satisfactory and
was a major factor in the success of the project. The component intended to mobilize communities,
increase awareness and change attitudes in order to increase demand for family planning using multimedia
approaches. After the Mid-Term Review, men and youth were specially targeted. The component was
implemented through:

    (a) Developing and distributing printed IEC materials to all communities in the pilot districts: Two
    IEC Materials participatory development workshops were held producing a total of 34 target specific
    reproductive health messages. The messages were disseminated through posters, leaflets, t-shirts,



                                                     - 4 -

  comic books, etc. The demand for IEC materials was much higher than anticipated and created
  shortages. Efforts were made by the project to increase the supply of these materials, including
  consultations with other stakeholders to synchronize production of IEC materials for reproductive
  health.

  (b) Preparation of special IEC messages recorded in audio cassettes for use by CBDAs and radio
  listening groups in the villages: The project procured 172 Radio-cassettes for use by the CBDAs.
  The messages were given in local languages and were used to attract and motivate the audience. A
  popular twenty-minute program on RH/FP was also aired on the national radio twice every week and
  was esimated to reach more than half the population of Malawi. The radio programs were recorded
  from the project districts and contained specific messages on family planning and reproductive health
  including interviews with satisfied clients. The end-project survey confirmed that the listenership was
  equally strong in the control districts which could have contributed to improvement in KAP recorded in
  those areas too.

  (c) Door-to-door motivational visits: CBDAs used this approach to reach potential clients in need of
  personalized attention or those unable to attend group activities. They found this to be highly effective
  especially when synchronized with the mass media.

  (d) Formation of youth clubs and training of peer educators: This intervention targeted adolescents
  who formed their own drama groups, a popular source of entertainment and education. A total of 15
  youth drama groups with 150 members were formed in the three districts. Exceptional drama groups
  were used across the pilot districts or performed skits for broadcasting by radio. Sixty-five youth peer
  educators and 30 youth CBDAs were trained under this activity.

  (e) Organizing district IEC fairs and campaigns: These were very useful for mass mobilization and
  sensitization and were well attended, especially by men and the youth. Participants included, the youth,
  members of District Assemblies, local leaders, politicians, religious leaders and the district
  development and gender officers. These fora were used by leaders to sensitize communities, not only
  on reproductive health, but also on general development. STI/HIV messages were fully integrated into
  all the activities and various themes were explored. The highly participatory fairs involved many
  sectors.

  Component II: Community based distribution of contraceptives. This component is rated as highly
  satisfactory as it was central to the improvement in CPR. A total of 172 CBDAs were recruited and
  166 were retained (retention rate of 97%). This exceeded the original target of 100 CBDAs and a
  retention rate of 80%.

       NUMBER OF CBDAs TRAINED AND RETAINED IN THE PILOT DISTRICTS
         District              Trained             Retained         % Retained
         Chitipa               64                  63               98.4
         Ntchisi               54                  52               96.3
         Chiradzulu            54                  51               94.4
         Total                 172                 166              96.5

FP counseling and services were the main activities done by the CBDAs but they also screened for STI
and referred clients to the clinics for treatment. The number of clients served ranged from 300 to 600 per
CBDA. However, the average was just above 200, as those referred for long or permanent FP methods in
the clinics were not included in the calculation. Contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) increased by 12% in


                                                    - 5 -

 pilot districts and by only 6% in the controls. The increase was much higher (more than 100%) when
 total eligible female populations only in villages covered by CBDAs are considered.

 There is strong evidence that CBDAs made a significant contribution to change in the pilot districts. In
 1999, the proportion of users who reported CBDAs as their source of contraception was only 1% in both
 the pilot and control districts. The end-project survey showed that while this percentage had remained the
 same in the control districts, it had increased to 24% in the pilot districts. This was accompanied by a
 significant shift from traditional to modern methods in the pilot districts. In addition, the proportion of
 young women (aged 15-19) in pilot districts who had used contraception at zero parity almost doubled
 between 1999 and 2003 (from 11 to 21%, compared to a 3% rise in the controls). The percentage of
 non-users who were not contacted by a CBDA and not counseled at a health facility declined from 67% to
 57% in pilot districts. In contrast, this proportion actually increased from 67 to 71% in control districts,
 further confirming that CBDAs were important players in the pilot districts. It must be emphasized,
 however, that the total number of CBDAs trained was inadequate for the districts as only 52-70% of the
 villages in the pilot districts were effectively covered. This partly explains the difference between
 estimated family planning acceptor rates calculated directly from CBDA returns during the supervision
 missions and the CPR obtained from the end-project survey. The definition of CPR used in the survey is
 another factor. It is, however, not unreasonable to extrapolate that even by this limited definition, the
 CPR could have been much higher, had full geographical coverage of the districts been obtained. Each
 CBDA was given a bicycle to help in the coverage of large areas.

 Component III: Strengthening clinical back-up. This component is rated as satisfactory. The capacity
 of all 29 of the 30 static health facilities in the pilot districts was enhanced in order to provide the full
 range of family planning methods and all reproductive health services as designated by the government for
 each level of care. The one remaining clinic voluntarily opted out on religious grounds. The back-up
 services were strengthened through staff training and provision of equipment and STI drugs. The project
 trained a total of 15 district trainers, 180 Health Surveillance Assistants (HSAs), and 78 clinicians (teams
 of nurses, medical assistants and clinical officers from hospitals and health centers). The back-up
 services provided by the clinics included professional counseling, broader choice of FP services
 (especially long-term and permanent methods), treatment of STIs, youth friendly health services (YFHS)
 and post- abortion care (PAC).

(a) Family planning. Although static health facilities remained the main source of FP services in both pilot
and control districts, the proportion of clients receiving services from these clinics dropped by almost 25%
(from 94% t0 75%) in pilot districts due to the services offered by CBDAs. In contrast, the proportion
actually increased by 2% (from 92% to 95%) in control districts. In Malawi, Depo provera which is by far
the most popular FP method (accounting for up to 33%) can only be given at the clinic, explaining why
many FP users still go there. A major shift can be expected if the plans to allow HSAs to give Depo
provera injections is adopted.

(b) STI Management. A total of ninety-nine health workers were trained in syndromic management and
adequate quantities of STI drugs were supplied in two batches. The pilot districts have relied solely on the
project and had not experience any shortage of STI drugs by the time of the ICR. Due to the sucess of this
arrangement, the pilot districts were not given STI drugs through the DfID program that covers the rest of
the country.

(c) Post-Abortion Care (PAC). Post-abortion care training was conducted for three teams of health
workers (a Clinical Officer and two Registered Nurse/ Midwife) from each of the three study districts and
services established at the district hospitals. The cost of the activities in the three districts was shared with


                                                         - 6 -

USAID who had been mandated by the government to lead PAC training and supply of equipment. Thus,
this component has been evaluated separately by Engender Health/USAID. PAC is still performed only in
hospitals and only by physician or Clinical Officers. The project has recommended that Nurse Technicians
should be allowed to perform PAC in health centers to expand access.

(d) Youth Friendly Health Services (YFHS). Youth Friendly Health Services were established in several
clinics with outreach services linked to several Youth Clubs. Staff from these clinics were trained in YFHS
and backed the 65 peer educators and the 30 Youth CBDAs working in the community. Lack of privacy,
staff shortage and frequent transfers interrupted the smooth provision of these services. Despite these
setbacks, the end-project survey confirmed that the proportion of youth (15-19 yrs) using modern
contraceptive methods had doubled (from 11 to 21 percent). Unlike other youth projects in Malawi, this
project had strong support from communities and avoided adverse publicity. The Ministry is using lessons
from the LIL to reorganize adolescent reproductive health with support from DfID and UNFPA.

(e) Infection control. The project trained the staff in infection control and supplied all clinics and hospitals
with relevant items. This was an important intervention as the clinics were providing invasive medical
back-up procedures such as surgical contraception which required optimum infection prevention, especially
in the era of HIV/AIDS.

Component IV: Training. This was a major undertaking by the project, thus a training officer was
recruited to coordinate the activities. The component is rated highly satisfactory since all targets were
achieved or exceeded. Training courses covered both technical and management issues ­ IEC/mobilization,
Logistics and HMIS, FP, infection control, PAC, ARH/peer education and transport management. That
the skills acquired were put to good use is evident in the performance of most staff who attended the
training. There was general improvement in their performance, increased satisfaction by clients and no
reports of any major complications attributable to technical insufficiency. In addition to the clinical
courses for back-up clinics mentioned above, the rest of the trainings included:

     (a) training of Project Implementation Team on management;
     (b) training of 172 CBDAs (64 in Chitipa, 54 in Ntchisi and 54 in Chiradzulu);
     (c) 270 HSAs trained in FP/RH in preparation for new responsibilities in FP service provision and
     supervision of CBDAs;
     (d) 78 health workers trained in Contraceptive Distribution Logistics and Management Information
     System (CDLMIS). Training was also provided in computer data entry and analysis in each district;
     (e) 320 traditional and religious leaders trained in leadership for RH. They shielded the project from
     adverse publicity and controversies; and
     (f) 65 peer educators trained to strengthen the youth component of the project. The peer educators
     are credited with much of the success in youth mobilization and participation seen in the second half
     of the project. Peer educators were involved in organizing youth forums, drama games and
     participated in provision of YFHS.

Component V: Monitoring and Evaluation. This component is rated satisfactory. The project invested
heavily on monitoring and support supervision and the ICR mission concurred with the end-project
evaluation report which attributed the success of the project to this component. The success of M&E was
due to organization and diligence on data collection and prompt feedback at every level, including to the
CBDAs who were the backbone of the project. A Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist was recruited as
part of the Project Management Team. At the district level, the District Family Planning Coordinator, who
is a member of the DHMT, was designated as the project manager. The project also funded two Primary
CBD Supervisors per district to assist and work with the District Health Education Officer on social


                                                       - 7 -

mobilization and distribution of IEC materials. The Nurse Technician in the local health facility was
designated as the Secondary Supervisor and helped direct the CBDAs in her geographical area. After the
Mid-term Review, District Youth Officers (under Ministry of Youth and Gender) were asked to assist with
the mobilization of youth and formation of youth clubs. The staff were trained in support supervision and
were also provided with transport (vehicles: 8; motorcycles: 8; and bicycles: 338).

The main outputs of the Monitoring and Evaluation component are:
    (a) a baseline survey report;
    (b) support supervision;
    (c) field visit reports;
    (d) report of the Mid-Term Review;
    (e) a computerized data collection system; and
    (f) an end-project survey report.

While support supervision remained strong and well-focused, there were some problems with data analysis.
These were attributed to the software package which was developed by a consultant for the project but
failed to perform as expected.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
 Although this was a LIL and a relatively short project, it has made strong institutional development
 impact that goes beyond CBD and reproductive health. This is the first HNP project to be completed with
 satisfactory rating by the Bank in Malawi. This alone has motivated the MOHP and given them the
 confidence in their own capacity. This confidence is evident in their demeanor during the preparation for
 the new HNP project. The success of the project has also motivated the Bank to invest further in the
 health sector through the SWAp. The project has contributed significantly to the knowledge-base on
 delivery of essential health services at the community level and informed the government on what it takes
 to provide district-wide coverage. CBD programs have been attempted in Malawi before by various
 NGOs, but not by the public sector. Most NGO projects have been small pilots lacking information on
 cost and other requirements for sustainability. The end-project survey report and the two dissemination
 workshops have crystalized the lessons learned, many of which are already being implemented by the
 MOHP. The Ministry is already revising the guidelines for CBDAs and other Community Health
 Workers and intends to bring clarity on the use of incentives at this level. The MOHP has also recognized
 its own limitations in the provision of an Essential Health Package and has sought collaboration with
 MASAF and other sectors to strengthen service delivery at community level. The following is a summary
 of some of the recommendations, the implementation of which is bound to change the way primary health
 care is delivered in Malawi:

(a) Increasing the scope of responsibilities for enrolled Nurses or Nurse Technicians to allow them to
perform, and thus decentralize Post-Abortion Care (PAC) services to the HC level. Unlike Registered
Nurses, Nurse Technicians work in rural clinics and are not leaving the country in large numbers. Their
participation in PAC should enhance both accessibility and sustainability.

(b) Doubling the numbers of HSAs country-wide to enhance the delivery of the Essential Health Package,



                                                      - 8 -

the project revised the HSA curriculum to include reproductive health. It also trained and equipped the first
270 HSAs for their new role.

(c) Expanding the scope of training and responsibility of HSAs in order to provide reproductive services
and supervise CBDAs. In addition, discussions are underway regarding the possibility of allowing HSAs
to provide injectable contraceptives, thus bringing this highly effective and popular method closer to clients
and relieving HC of the workload.

(d) Improved management of transport. The mission noted that all the vehicles bought by the project are
still in good shape and are well-maintained by the districts.

(e) Appreciation of the value and importance of HMIS and the constraints in establishing effective systems.
The Ministry needs to install the culture of information gathering and utilization.

(f) Recognizing the importance of IEC, sensitization and mobilization of communities for change. This is
an important prerequisite to the success of any community based endeavor.

(g) The importance of involving DHMTs in the design and implementation of programs. This cannot be
overemphasized, especially as Malawi embarks on the difficult process of decentralization.

The project facilitated meetings between MOHP and MASAF, thus setting the stage for scaling up of HSA
training and other activities by community health workers. The partnership has already led to the
formation of a joint Task Force to operationalize MASAF III and improve delivery of EHP at community
level. Through this Task Force and the collaboration of other sectors and development partners, alternative
means of providing incentives to CHWs and sustaining voluntarism are being developed. In addition, a
draft concept note on delivery of an Essential Health Package at community level has been prepared for
discussion. Finally, the project has provided useful insight into the challenges of scaling up the delivery of
essential health services at the community level and these lessons are being used in the design of the new
SWAp project. Lack of capacity was recognized as a key constraint; hence, the project invested heavily on
skills development at all levels. This, together with strong supervision, were the main cornerstones of its
apparent success.

On the basis of the foregoing, the institutional development impact is rated as substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Malawi suffered severe drought and widespread famine during the project which impacted negatively on all
economic activities and interfered with allocation of public resources. The famine also reduced community
contributions and participation, forcing them to pay more attention to survival. That the project achieved
so much despite the famine is testimony to the strength of unmet need for family planning and reproductive
health in Malawi and the potential of health interventions at community level. The less spectacular FP
results from one of the pilot districts, Ntchisi, has been attributed to the severity of the famine in that area.
Paradoxically, anecdotal reports indicate that in some areas, family planning demand rose during the
famine as families faced the immediate hardships of feeding many children.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
 There are several factors which were subject to government control that affected project performance.
 Irregular remission of counterpart funds caused delays and affected project implementation as some



                                                       - 9 -

 planned activities were delayed or postponed. IEC activities and delivery of bicycles were affected by
 these delays.

 The strained relations between the PMT and the Reproductive Unit of the Ministry of Health, which was
 the home of the project, affected the participation of the latter in project activities. The role of RHU in
 providing oversight to PMT was, therefore, not fully realized. These problems could have been solved by
 the government.

 The project also suffered from frequent staff changes and delays in hiring replacements. This was due to
 the modest terms of service offered which were less than had been agreed in the PAD. Experienced staff
 would therefore be attracted to better paying jobs. At the time of the ICR mission only one member of the
 PMT was still working for the project. The situation could have been avoided if the government had
 implemented the terms of service agreed in the PAD.

 Delays in procurement of vehicles, drugs, printing and equipment were attributed to a few cumbersome
 government systems. For example, the PHN procurement officer at the MOH who was assigned to the
 project was over-burdened with work and gave the project low priority. His contract expired before the
 project procurements were done and he was not replaced. In another instance, the government changed
 procurement regulations and set new ceilings in the middle of the project. Thus, purchases above MK
 50,000 had to be passed from the IPC through the GCU, a slow and cumbersome process that further
 lengthened the delays.

 Shortage of skilled staff also constrained referrals and service delivery resulting in long waiting lists,
 especially for long-term and permanent methods of family planning. This forced some CBDAs to refer
 clients to the private sector, particularly Banja La Mtsongolo (BLM), a reproductive health NGO.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
 There were a few factors that were subject to control by the PMT. First, was the poor relations with
 RHU which has already been mentioned. The PMT's reaction was to ignore the RHU and instead,
 strengthen direct linkages with higher authorities in the Ministry. Most significant was the inability of the
 Project Steering Committee to meet as provided in the PAD. The committee could have sorted out the
 problems between PMT and RHU had the meetings been conducted as planned. With regard to the rapid
 staff turn-over, it appears that the PMT tended to over-estimate their capacity, often delaying or not
 seeking staff replacements altogether. For example, the original Project Management Team was made up
 of the following officers: 1 Project Coordinator; 1 IEC Officer; 1 Training Officer; 1 Back-up Support
 Officer; and 1 Monitoring and Evaluation Officer. A Youth RH Officer was added after the MTR.

 Recorded staff movements show the following: Project coordinator - reassigned to higher position at the
 Ministry from March 2002, and replaced after 5 months; M/E officer - left in September 2001 and was
 replaced in July 2002; Training Officer - left in September 2001, not replaced; Youth RH - left in
 September 2001 and not replaced; Project Accountant ­ left in March 2001 and was replaced in July
 2002.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the financing plan of the project was envisaged as outlined in the table below.




                                                     - 10 -

PROJECT FINANCING PLAN AT APPRAISAL
 Financier           Local(US$)            Foreign(US$)         Total(US$)          Actual Financing
                                                                                    (US$) at project
                                                                                    closure
 Government of                  500,000                      0            500,000               373,000
 Malawi
 Co-financiers                          0                    0                   0                    0
 IBRD                                   0                    0                   0                    0
 IDA                                    0           5,000,000          5,000,000              3,067,223
 Total                          500,000             5,000,000          5,500,000              3,440,223

 There was no variation in the sources of financing after the project was declared effective and throughout
 its implementation. The budget for the project was maintained at $5.5m with $5.0m coming from IDA.

 The Project operated without the Malawi government's contribution of MK500,000 during the first year
 (period March-June 1999) because it became effective mid-way in the fiscal year. As such, the project
 costs to be met from the Malawi government were not included in the 1998/1999 fiscal year. With only
 three months left before the end of the fiscal year, a supplementary budget could not be submitted.
 Therefore, the project paid everything from the IDA Special Account but this was made good in the
 following year (May 1, 2000) when the government paid up the total sum of MK500,000. The Special
 Account was refunded with a total sum utilized to meet counterpart funds as soon as funds became
 available. Thereafter, counterpart funds were adequately paid until the first fiscal year of extension
 (2002/2003) when the government was in arrears by MK8.25m. A further extension of the project for six
 months to wind up some activities that had performed particularly well during implementation created
 further counterpart fund arrears of MK3.1m, amounting to a total counterpart funds arrears of MK11.6m
 (equivalent US$127,019). Efforts were vigorously made by the project implementation unit and the World
 Bank team supporting the implementation of the project to get the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance to
 pay the counterpart funds arrears. The table below shows the historical perspective of counterpart funds as
 disbursed by the Government of Malawi over the life of the project.

 DISBURSEMENT OF PROJECT COUNTERPART FUNDS BY THE GOVERNMENT OF
 MALAWI
  Fiscal Year      Amount       Amount             Actual amount   Arrears for the    Cumulative
                   required     approved and       funded (MK)     fiscal year        Arrears (MK)
                   by project   included in the                    (MK)
                   for year     National
                   (MK)         Budget (MK)
 1998/1999         500,000                  0                0          500,000            500,000
 1999/2000                         7,262,615            500,000        6,762,615          7,262,615
 2000/2001                         6,622,542           7,601,143       (978,601)          6,284,014
 2001/2002                        15,163,490           8,352,644       6,810,846         13,094,860
 2002/2003                         9,374,938          13,959,798      (4,584,860)         8,510,000
 2003/2004                         3,095,852                   0       3,095,852         11,605,852
 Total             500,000         41,519,437         30,413,585      11,605,852         11,605,852

  The detailed consolidated costs per project component at appraisal are as shown in the table below.




                                                      - 11 -

   CONSOLIDATED COSTS PER PROJECT COMPONENT
   Component             Costs          Bank            Government               Bank Financing at
                         including      Financing       Financing                Negotiation
                         contingencies  (US$)           (US$)                    (US$)
                         (US$)
   Community based           1,700,000     1,500,000                  200,000                1,500,000
   distribution
   Information,                 600,000      500,000                  100,000                  500,000
   Education and
   Communication
   Strengthening back-        2,500,000    2,300,000                  200,000                2,300,000
   up Support
   Training                     700,000      700,000                         0                 700,000
    Total                    5,500,000     5,000,000                  500,000                5,000,000

The above financing was translated into services, goods, works and items to be procured by the project
which were embedded into the governing Development Credit Agreement of the project. This cost structure
which is presented in the table below also shows the status of the credit at the closure of the project.

PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES AND STATUS OF CREDIT AT PROJECT CLOSURE
Category         Original      Disbursements to     Projected           Total         Balance
                 Allocation    date.                disbursements
                 (US$)         (US$)                (US$)               (US$)         (US$)
Goods               1,573,894            647,139                    0       647,139       926,755
Consultancy           869,161            643,395                    0       643,395       225,766
Training$ IEC       2,029,973          1,288,471                    0     1,288,471       741,502
Incremental           792,930            197,416                    0       197,416       595,514
operating
Special               -30,348             79,902                    0         79,902     -110,251
Account
Unallocated                 0                   0                   0              0             0
Total               5,235,609          2,856,323                    0     2,856,323     2,379,286

As can be discerned from the disbursement status table above, over US$2m was returned to the World
Bank through a process of cancellation. This was after extending the project on two separate occasions for
a total period of eighteen months. It should be noted that there was no cost category re-allocation during
the Mid-Term Review.

Three reasons can be advanced for this apparent under-utilization of funds. At the time of effectiveness of
the project, the exchange rate of the US Dollar to the Malawi Kwacha was 43 to 1. At closure, the rate
was 120 to 1. With over eighty percent of the costs in Malawi Kwacha, the project found itself with a lot
of money, in local currency terms, with which to implement the planned activities.

While no numerical exercise was carried out to produce empirical evidence of this point, it is apparent that
the project was over-costed. This is inferred from the fact that despite giving an extension for eighteen
months, there were not enough activities to exhaust the funds while the target outputs had been far
exceeded.

The intermittent shortages of counterpart funds in the last twelve months and close to the end of the project



                                                    - 12 -

made implementation difficult as suppliers would not accept to be paid for the IDA portion of the cost
leaving the Malawi Government portion unpaid. As such, the project unit found itself in situations where it
could not implement some planned activities.

Efforts had been undertaken to design a new accounting system for the project independent of the
government, one which was later computerized by buying the PLATINUM software. However, the
software was never used for the project. The Accountant who instituted the software developed some kind
of phobia for the software. This was made worse by the prolonged absence of the project Accountant.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
 Despite knowledge that sustainability had been a major issue in all CBD projects, it is surprising that this
 issue was never raised earlier in the project. Studies from Kenya and elsewhere in the late 1990s had
 shown that CBDA projects of similar design were not sustainable and second generation programs that
 relied less on 'donor paid incentives' and more on voluntarism and community support had been
 recommended. The output per CBDA was known to be lower in the second generation designs although
 more CBDAs could be trained with reduced dependence on donor funding. Ultimately, sustainability
 became a major concern during the latter part of the project, attracting serious attention by supervision
 missions.

 The ICR team examined sustainability from two angles: (a) sustainability of the CBDA approach used in
 this study, and (b) sustainability of the CBDA concept itself. The design used in this intervention is not
 sustainable from the government's own resources, and it is unlikely that donor funding can be obtained to
 the level that would sustain its expansion nation-wide. Alternative arrangements were, therefore, put in
 place to address sustainability. This brings us to the second issue of the sustainability of the CBD as a
 concept. The CBDA concept can be sustained if incentives are addressed from the outset. There were
 two types of incentives given to CBDAs: material and direct financial. Material incentives in this project
 included training and certificates, uniforms, bags, badges, umbrellas, boots, and bicycles. These were
 largely capital costs and are inevitable in all CBD programs. Financial incentives on the other hand, are
 recurrent and, therefore, more difficult to sustain. In this project, this amounted to $6 per month per
 capita (CBDA) and was the primary cause of concern for the Ministry. It is, however, notable that this
 project paid the lowest financial incentives compared with other CBD projects in Malawi. Other
 programs paid up to $30 per month and relied entirely on external donors for sustainability.

 Two options for strengthening sustainability were eventually laid out. First, the Ministry considered the
 option of reducing reliance on CBDAs by using HSAs (who are salaried multi-purpose community level
 workers) to provide FP services. The plan is to double the number of HSAs, thereby improving the
 current HSAs to population ration of 1:2000 to 1:1000. HSAs are trained for a few weeks and employed
 as civil servants on a monthly salary of $25. They will play the dual role of providing FP services as well
 act as primary supervisors of CBDAs, a role played hitherto played by project employees. The project
 assisted in this effort by reviewing the training curriculum and training 270 HSAs in the three pilot
 districts. The government will continue to support training, commodities, monitoring and supervision of
 CHWs, including CBDAs, but it will not provide financial incentives. At the time of the ICR, the HSAs
 had not worked long enough to be evaluated but the government has provided a budget for additional
 HSAs.

 The second and more hopeful approach to CBDA sustainability was to work with MASAF and hand over
 responsibility for maintaining the CBDAs to communities. In this context, health intervention priories of



                                                     - 13 -

 MASAF III have shifted from assisting communities to build more health facilities to supporting the
 delivery of a sustainable community health care package, including family planning. MASAF III is,
 therefore, developing a community owned and driven incentive package and assisting in setting up income
 generating activities at community level that do not depend on the government or donors ad noseum.
 Following consultations with MASAF, initiated by the project, the joint task-force has developed a
 community health package to be delivered by HSAs and community health workers. This initiative is
 being built into the new health SWAp program.

 It is important to note that even at this early stage, the cost per CYP of this project is 50% lower that the
 older, celebrated program in Zimbabwe. The discussion of sustainability needs to take this finding into
 consideration.

 In view of all the abvove, sustainability of the CBD approach in Malawi is rated as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition from project to regular operations has gone well. This is despite the strains between PMT
and RHU and is partly due to the efforts by the supervision missions during the last year of the project.
This is predicated on the fact that community-based distribution of contraceptives is one of the approaches
outlined in the national Reproductive Health Strategy and policy guidelines. This has provided a ready and
reliable framework for implementing lessons from the project. In addition, the PMT office was closed and
all equipment and activities have been effectively transferred to the Reproductive Health Unit. This
included the technical staff from the PMT who has been offered a permanent position in RHU and will
continue to coordinate CBD activities.

At the field level, HSA training has already been expanded to enable them to supervise CBDAs and provide
contraceptives. With the doubling of their numbers and the revision of their job description,
communication and supervision should be greatly enhanced at the community level.

Referrals to health facilities is unlikely to be affected by the closure of the project and may even improve,
for two reasons. First, the government is implementing an emergency six-year training program that will
rapidly revamp the number of Medical Assistants, Enrolled Community Nurses and Clinical Officers.
Second, MASAF has also offered to train additional primary care workers from under-served communities.
These two efforts should improve availability of skilled staff in health facilities, thereby helping to resolve
what has been recognized as a major constraint in referrals during the project.

Community data collection and monitoring is also being strengthened through adoption of a Health Card
system which has already been successfully field tested by UNICEF and MASAF. Through this system,
data from CBDAs will go via HSAs to the health facilities from where it will be integrated with the
national HMIS. JICA is supporting the improvement of the HMIS and the needs of RHU and lessons from
this project have been taken into account.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
This project is a LIL for which an IDA grant of $5m was allocated. The project was identified as an
important part of poverty reduction in Malawi as underlined in the CAS. Severe and persistent shortages
of human resources for health justified the community-based approach. The lending was deserving and the
conduct of the Bank, apart from changes in TTLs, has been satisfactory throughout the process. Although
the expenditure on project identification and preparation appears to be high (Annex 3b) this was mainly due


                                                       - 14 -

to consultancies on a separate but related analytical work independently funded through Trust Funds.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank carried out two annual supervisory visits by teams that
had a good mix of skills. These are summarized in Annex 4. The inclusion of the Bank's Reproductive
Health Advisor sharpened the technical inputs by the Bank while strengthening many of the weaker aspects
of project implementation. In addition, it increased attention to Monitoring and Evaluation as well as the
issue of sustainability, while also creating an effective forum for discussion with MASAF.

Although never fully settled, the problems of counterpart funding were repeatedly addressed during
supervisory visits and appropriate actions were taken as deemed necessary.

Two computer software purchases did not benefit the project. One was for accounting and the other for
data collection. Due to the frequent changes of staff and the prolonged absences of Project Accountant and
the M&E Specialist, this problem was, unfortunately, not noted in time. Except for one mission, the rating
for financial management in the project was consistently satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance in this project is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in the preparation was satisfactory. Malawi had one of the highest maternal
mortality rates in the region and family planning is one of the pillars of safe motherhood. In addition, rapid
population growth was identified as an impediment to poverty reduction in Malawi and the slow decline in
fertility had been well documented in serial Demographic and Health Surveys. The policy objectives and
targets were unlikely to be achieved without specific intervention addressing both the demand and supply
sides of the equation. At the time of project entry, Malawi already had some experience with CBD
programs, implemented by at least 20 NGOs

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, all organs of government performed well in their interactions with the project. This is despite the
fact that throughout the project, the government struggled to meet both the required financial and oversight
obligations. The main problems were delays in disbursement of counterpart funds and human resource
constraints. The delays should, however, be seen against the prevailing poor macroeconomic environment
in Malawi, compounded by the long drought and famine.

The Ministry has seriously looked into the issue of sustainability as evidenced by its budgeting for more
HSAs and discussions with MASAF. The government also hosted two dissemination workshops with
donors and other stakeholders to discuss the way forward. Government implementation performance is
rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PMT is rated satisfactory. The PMT performed well despite delays in
disbursements and frequent loss of personnel. From the onset, a Malawian national with strong health and
management credentials was appointed to coordinate the project. The team was both flexible and multi-
dimensional and became adept at catching up with work plans and working beyond individual job
descriptions. The PMT can be faulted on two things: failure to involve the RHU and DHMTs in
decision-making, and not utilizing the Steering Committee which was designed to support project
management.


                                                      - 15 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The two extensions that were granted to the project were not
performance related. The first extension was to make up for time lost before implementation began. The
second was to allow for consolidation of lessons learned, to cater for the government's decision to increase
the number and scope of work of HSAs, as well as to rethink the role of CBDAs and their sustainability.

8. Lessons Learned

 There are a number of important lessons learned from the design and implementation of this project.
 Most of them are positive and can be replicated in the rest of the country and the African region:

    (a) Rapid increase in contraceptive prevalence is possible in rural Africa through Community
    Based distributors. The project proved the hypothesis by demonstrating dramatic increase in family
    planning uptake in rural Malawi through a district wide CBD program. This raised CPR over a three
    year period to a level that, according to MOHP projections, would have only been reached in 2012.
    The results were all the more remarkable because the project was implemented in the poorest rural
    districts and was undertaken during a period of severe famine and the HIV epidemic. The success
    confirms that Malawi, as indeed the rest of Africa, has a large unmet need for family planning that
    does not have to wait until the rest of the health system has been fixed. It can be addressed through
    innovative primary care approaches that expand access to quality services using community based
    workers. The study further confirms the importance of linking community based services with clinical
    back up that allows efficient referral of cases that are beyond the village health worker. Although the
    proportion of family planning clients served by CBDAs in pilot districts increased from 1 to 24% while
    remaining static at 2% in control districts, long term and permanent methods of contraception was still
    obtained in health facilities. Depo provera is the most popular method of family planning in Malawi
    and but it is not provided by CBDAs. Efficient back up services were therefore vital to the overall
    success of the program. Clinic-based services expand choice and make it possible to provide
    comprehensive reproductive health services which was the recommendation of the Cairo Conference
    (ICPD, 1994). The importance of a functional referral chain should therefore be given due emphasis in
    the design of CBD programs.

    (b) Effective community mobilization through IEC and support supervision, rather than mere
    financial incentives, is the backbone of a successful CBD program. The project was successful due
    to a balanced focus on both demand and supply issues. Demand was increased through a very effective
    multimedia IEC campaign. The messages were formulated with full participation of communities and
    target groups and succeeded not raising the interest and level of participation of men and the youth in a
    culturally sensitive way. By doing this, the project did not arouse any opposition from cultural or
    religious groups. This is an important lesson for reproductive health programs and the health sector in
    general. Most health programs ignore community mobilization and rarely allocate adequate funds for
    IEC. This is also the reason why this project performed better than other CBD projects in Malawi that
    had more agents on the ground and paid up to four times higher financial incentives. In Chiradzulu
    pilot district, for example, the 59 CBDAs trained by this project covered 445 villages out of 775 (58%)
    resulting in an increase in CPR from 20.5% to 35.7%. In the control district of Mulanje, there were
    421 CBDAs working with another project but they covered only 111 villages from a total of 585 (19%)
    and the increase in CPR was modest. The strong support supervision process set by the project was
    another reason for its succes and an important lesson to be noted. The process facilitated rapid
    feedback between the project management team and the CBDAs which made each provider know that
    his/her contribution did matter. This supervisory chain was made up of mostly regular MoH staff who



                                                     - 16 -

did not receive any extra incentives. Only the Primary Supervisors were employed directly by the
project but their role will now be filled by HSAs according to the new government plan.

(c) Sustainability of CBD is possible but requires much more careful planning. Sustainability is an
important concern CBD programs that requires special attention. Notwithstanding the fact that the
cost per CYP in this project is much lower compared to Zimbabwe (less than US$ 10 vs US$ 17 per
CYP in Zimbabwe) sustainability was seen as the biggest challenge by the MOHP. This was the
reason for the decision to increase the training of HSAs who will be full time civil servants. It has been
argued that voluntarism is difficult to sustain in poor communities much as it is in such communities
that voluntarism is often the only option. It has been documented that where community health
workers provide services on purely voluntary basis, their performance is often lower since the amount
of individual time they allocate to the activities is limited. Most of the CBDAs agreed to continue after
the closure of the project provided that they were given contraceptives and supervised by the
government. But there are still essential overheads that need to be taken of even if they agree to
continue as volunteers. They include training, transport, commodities, bags, uniforms and protective
gear, not to mention the cost of close supervision. While these costs could be shared between the
government and the communities, allot depends on how CBD programs are introduced and the
promises and expectations raised at the beginning. The folly of most failed CBD projects in the
developing has been the big promises made by NGOs and inability to discuss sustainability with the
community at entry. Doing so and charting a realistic exit strategy allows informed community
participation and preparation for eventual ownership. This project made the same mistakes by not
discussing sustainability with the communities at entry. The MOHP was however awake to this
problem and reacted through the unilateral decision to train more HSAs. Efforts to seek sustainability
options were heightened, including opening dialogue with communities and providers and the
involvement of MASAF. The important lesson is that the problem of sustainability is not
insurmountable and has to be designed to fit the peculiarities of each community. The governments
should however not abdicate all responsibilities to the community. Training, sustainable supply of
commodities data collection and support supervision are core responsibilities of the government. With
these in place, additional support to CBDAs such as incentives can be delegated to communities, many
of whom have traditional means of compensating communal work. Communal work is not a new
phenomenon in Africa. What is new is the different approaches and the degree to which local
participation and ownership is created. Communities, when fully briefed and given room to decide,
have the ability to design their own compensatory mechanisms. For this project the collaboration with
MASAF III is an excellent example of how community support and ownership for primary health care
activities can be built. It is also a lesson on how social protection and health can integrate their
activities to accelerate achievement of the MDGs in Africa. It should be further documented as best
practice and replicated in other countries with social action funds or CDD programs.

(d) Lessons from a LIL can find immediate utility resulting in significant changes in how the
health sector works. Lessons from this project have already been assimilated by the MOHP and are
leading to several policy changes. First, the ministry is putting greater emphasis on community level
activities. This is seen in the decision to train more HSAs and give them more responsibilities and the
design of the Essential Health Package (EHP) which is the mainstay of the forthcoming SWAp.
Secondly, PAC services at the district hospital are being provided by Clinical officers and discussions
are on going to decentralize the services further to the nurse or medical assistant at the health center.
This a most appropriate response given the severe shortage of health personnel in Malawi. And finally,
the MOHP has seen the benefits of working closely with MASAF III. We were unable to do this under
MASAF I and II and the success of this project opened the eyes of the Ministry on the great potential in
working with MASAF III to increase access while reducing the cost of the service to both clients and


                                                  - 17 -

       the government.

   Lessons from this project are by no means unique. They confirm the findings of an earlier review of CBD
   programs in Africa by the Population Council which reached the following conclusions about the design of
   effective CBD programs: Community involvement is crucial at the strategic planning stage; CBD agent
   selection should be guided by community opinion rather than predetermined criteria; paid workers perform
   better than volunteers; and CBD programs can fail when planners view them as something that
   automatically succeeds, thus neglecting service quality and sound management. Similar to this project, the
   reviewers concluded that: (i) CBD is administratively feasible in Africa, even in settings where
   contraceptive use is low; (ii) overcoming social barriers to contraceptive use is more crucial to CBD
   impact than mere removal of geographic barriers to services; (iii) Community-based distribution generates
   contraceptive use that would not otherwise occur; and (iv) planners should base the design of CBD
   programs on sound scientific evidence that the strategies pursued are appropriate for the setting.

   9. Partner Comments

   (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
       Borrower's Comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report Prepared by IDA.



       Telephone: + 265 789 400                                                In reply please quote No......................
       Facsimile: + 265 789 431                                                    MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION
                                                                                           P.O. BOX 30377
       All Communications should be addressed to:                                          LILONGWE 3
       The Secretary for Health and Population                                                 MALAWI




Ref. No. POP/FP/5                                                           5th April 2004

The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
USA

Attn: Khama Rogo

Through: The Resident Representative
          World Bank Country Officer
          Lilongwe 3

Attn:           Country Office Manager

Dear Khama,

              RE: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR POP/FP

        I hereby write to inform you that the Ministry has gone
        through the Implementation Report for World Bank for POP/FP




                                                      - 18 -

      and are in agreement with the contents.

      I look forward to your usual support.

                                    Yours sincerely




                               pp/ Dr. R.B. Pendame
               SECRETARY FOR HEALTH AND POPULATION




(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING MOHP/WORLD BANK PROJECT

Summary of issues from UNFPA's perspective during the end project dissemination workshop
S. Cohen, Malawi UNFPA Representative, 10-12-2003

Project design and strategy

First of all, UNFPA would like to commend the excellent design of the POP/FP project, which truly
attempts to create synergy among several components of reproductive health, thereby adopting a model RH
programme approach at district level.

l Components that were integrated include FP, PAC, STI and counseling. Its innovative service delivery
features included the use of CBDAs to offer in addition to FP methods and counseling, STI screening and
referral, YFS, and PAC in public sector health centers.

l The project interventions also coordinate several levels of operations between HQ, district DMHT,
health centers, outreach workers and community members.

l Finally, it attempts to balance supply and demand creation components through careful attention to
often over-looked management and support activities such as MIS, RH commodities system, a strong BCC
strategy and community mobilization and community governance. Ten years after Cairo, the project's
success serves to demonstrate that it is indeed it is feasible and critical to adopt a comprehensive
reproductive health approach to make a difference in population, fertility, health infrastructure, and
community attitudes.

l The success of this project makes a good advocacy case for its feasibility and impact in the country.
However, we need a costing of the approach. The need for a cost-effectiveness analysis is well taken.

l Innovation: STI screening by CBDAs, PAC.


A few strategic recommendations in that regards:



                                                      - 19 -

l The HIV/AIDS prevention component seems overlooked and needs to be integrated to promote not only
condom as dual protection method, but also referral to VCT and PMTCT.

l There is a need to adopt a multisectoral approach, not only for IEC, but also for other service delivery
components, i.e., involve other ministries and NGOs such as Ministry of Youth, Sports and Culture and
Ministry of Gender and Community Services.

l The ARSH component was included as an after thought; there is a need to address the RH commodities
component of ARSH Youth Friendly Services.

l UNFPA in full agreement with the project recommendation to operationalize partnering with men in
RSH activities if we are to expect an increase in CPR, and a reduction in STI/HIV/AIDS and GBV.
However, we need to consider issues that go beyond catering to men's own RH needs. Even though, the
project acknowledges the need to involve men, it recommends to cater to men's RH needs but leaves out the
gender lens in the strategy. For instance, there is no special efforts to encourage a change of attitudes to
reduce women and girls vulnerabilities with regards STIs and GBV. We do not know the gender of
CBDAs and youth CBDAs.

Results

l UNFPA is pleased to note the positive increase in CPR in the pilot districts due to the project intensive
efforts and its CBDA scheme with strong supervision and other management support systems. UNFPA
is also trying to promote similar results in three selected districts of: Dedza, Mchinji and Nkhata Bay
where we are executing a Family and Reproductive Health project, in collaboration with the Canadian
Public Health Association, in two health centers per district. We hope to draw lessons learnt from
this project during a mid-term review, next year.

l Use of traditional contraceptives methods: Encouraging to learn that there is a significant drop in the
use of traditional methods in pilot districts, as compared to control districts.

l Creating an enabling environment for the provision of adolescent RH services is also the major thrust
of our current CP. It is therefore not surprising to note the difficulty to attribute success to the project
alone in the pilot districts, and to differentiate between pilot and control districts in some instances. UNFPA
funds national NGOs [e.g., Family Planning Association of Malawi in Dowa district, and Banja La
Mstogolo projects in the other districts] to implement similar CBDA activities in both the pilot and control
districts. More information sharing and analysis of contributing factors, would be needed in that regard.

l Evidence-based programme management: In this day and age of results-based management, UNFPA
fully supports the excellent result framework and reporting mechanisms adopted by the project. We just
concluded a two-day workshop on RBM and M&E with our National Project coordinators and they
are also encouraged to report how their activities contribute to outcome and output level so as to show
results.

l Data needs to be disaggregated by age and sex, not only for clients but also for providers and
     volunteers.

l Other dimensions of the changing environment such as the food crisis, poverty and gender disparity
issues, as well as implementation of new youth and gender and RH policies, need to be noted in the


                                                       - 20 -

end-of-project evaluation report.

Policy issues:

The options for future deployment of human resources are well laid out and go hand in hand with
mobilization of financial resources: i.e extend use of Health Service Assistants [through central budget
allocation] to supervise the CBDAs, and find localized ways to generate sustainable income to pay
incentives to volunteers.

A few policy recommendations

l Change designation of district postsffom district family planning officer [DFPO] to district
reproductive health officer [DRHO].

l Clarify the policy with regards access of young CBDA to condoms and other contraceptives. This
    issue is not
raised in the process evaluation report. However, UNFPA and other NGO partners have experienced
difficulties in implementing SRH projects for young people, when public sector providers resist providing
YCBDAs with contraceptives; there are also frequent stock-outs in condoms in districts that jeopardize
consistent use of condoms for safer sex.

l There is a need to clarify the concept of youth friendly SRH services. YFS go beyond setting up youth
clubs, or organizing a set of activities. It is also not clear what is the ideal proportion of peer educators
versus youth CBDAs, the and role of other entities dealing with YP [attitudes of providers and how
welcome are young people in public health services, DYO, CDAs, NGOs, etc.]

l Incentives and/or cost recovery: There is need for a clear Government policy on the issue of incentives
as this some times contributes to a slow implementation of project activities whereby people expect to be
rewarded in one form or another for services rendered to the community on behalf on the project. Letting
CBDAs sell contraceptives at subsidized prices would be a form of rural social marketing that has been
implemented with success in other countries.

l As per the Malawi government's commitment to the ICPD Programme of Action, the MoHP needs to
commit to truly operationalize RH at primary care level [community and health centers] rather than just
district hospitals. For example, a good case is made to let Depo Provera be distributed by HSAs; and to
have sterilization and MVA accessible at health centers level.

l In general, we need to expand the constellation of RH services at health and community levels in the
context of the Essential Health Package of the SWAp, and in the context of high HIV prevalence and more
attention and resources being allocated to HIV/Aids than RH/FP.

Way forward

        l The project appears as the epitome of the programme approach to operationalize RH at
              primary care level.

        l Greater collaboration with World Bank, UNFPA and MoHP is recommended to share
              know-how and resources in BCC, policy advocacy, ARSH for the adoption of a comprehensive
              RH approach that integrates HIV, ARSH, GBV and gender equity.


                                                        - 21 -

     l In particular, we need to joint forces to identify ARSH approaches that work. The use of radio
          listening groups in the project is also noted, as well as the difficulties in scaling and
          maintaining this component. UNFPA has the know-how in using entertainment-education
          approaches through partnership with community radios to promote RH, HIV prevention and
          gender equity, and in using more appropriate technologies for battery-less radios.

     l The POP/FP project management team is invited to an end-of-project evaluation dissemination
          workshop on SRH using YCBDAs, on 20 January 2004 [venue to be communicated].

     l We should build on the momentum and goodwill of community members and District
          Assemblies to mobilize resources for RH, such as FP methods and incentives for CBDAs.

     l The MoHP's plan to use HSAs to supervise CBDAs seems excellent. However, one needs to
          carefully test the idea and answer the question: Are HSAs ready to tackle RH issues? UNFPA
          has a long experience in co-opting change agents such as teachers and extension workers that
          did not express much gender sensitivity or enthusiasm in speaking about power relations and
          sexuality issues.

     l Finally, in the way forward, we need to collectively find strategies that integrate HIV/AIDS
          into RH services and conversely, that integrate RH component such as post-VCT FP
          counseling and methods, in HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care efforts.

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase the contraceptive prevalence rate    40%                                             Pilot 36% (+12 percentage change); Control
(baseline 23.5% pilot and 24,7% control in                                                    30% (+6 percentage change)
pilot districts.
To increase % population with positive view   note done                                       Pilot 95% (+6.5% change); Control 81%
of family planning from 80% to 95% in pilot                                                   (+2,7% change)
districts (baseline Pilot 89,2%; Control
88.6%)




Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
100 CBDAs recruited and trained               172 CBDAs and 180 HSAs                          172 CBDAs and 270 HSAs
80% of CBDAs retained                         97%                                             97%
200 FP clients per CBD recruited              Target exceeded                                 Target exceeded
Improved capacity of Health workers: Health FP: 135 health workers trained, STI: 99           FP: 135 health workers trained, STI: 99
professionals trained in contraceptive        trained, 29 of 30 static facilities covered     trained, 29 of 30 static facilities covered
logistics, long term FP methods and STI
syndrmic management as back up to CBDs
Health facilities providing a range of RH     PAC in three hospitals                          PAC in three hospitals
services: PAC services in three district
hospitals established
STI drugs procured and distributed            Done                                            Done
Uninterupted availablity of contraceptives    No shortages experienced by CBDAs               No shortages experienced by CBDAs
effected
IEC: Relevant and appropriate RH messages 35 specific messages on RH/FP developed             35 specific messages developed
developed
IEC: Mass media campaign conducted            Radio program in MBC twice every week           Radio program in MBC twice every week;
                                                                                              catchment 3m population
IEC: number of activities targeting men and   6 IEC campaign fairs done, 15 youth drama       6 IEC fairs done, 15 youth drama groups, 65
youth performed                               groups, 65 youth peer educators                 youth peer educators
IEC: print material developed and distributed Posters, leaflets , comic books and T-shirts    osters, leaflets , comic books and T-shirts
                                              prepared and distributed                        prepared and distributed
IEC: number of leaders mobilized and          320 traditional and religious leaders mobilized 320 traditional and religious leaders mobilized
senstized                                     and trained on RH                               and trained on RH
Project monitoring and evaluation done        Baseline survey report available; Quartely      Ditto; End project survey report available;
                                              field visit reports;                            Computer data collection system installed.
                                              MTR report available


Dissemination of findings of lessons from     NA                                              Reports of two dissemination workshops
project done                                                                                  available. Partner reprt available

1End of project




                                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Community Based Distribution                                 1.70             0.97              82
Information, Education and Communication                     0.60             0.34              83
Strengthening Back-up Support                                2.50             1.37              84
Training                                                     0.70             0.46              85

Total Baseline Cost                                          5.50             3.14
                        Total Project Costs                  5.50             3.14
                  Total Financing Required                   5.50             3.14


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.30              1.70         0.20          0.00         2.20
                                  (0.30)           (1.50)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (2.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.40         0.20          1.50         2.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.40)      (0.20)          (1.30)       (1.90)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.30          0.00         0.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.29)          (0.00)       (0.29)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.90          0.00         0.90
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.81)          (0.00)       (0.81)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.30              2.10         1.60          1.50         5.50
                                  (0.30)           (1.90)      (1.50)          (1.30)       (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.43             0.00         0.24           0.00        0.67
                                  (0.43)          (0.00)       (0.22)         (0.00)       (0.65)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         2.16           0.00        2.16
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.93)         (0.00)       (1.93)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.22           0.00        0.22
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.20)


                                                - 24 -

   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.09             0.00              0.09
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.08)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.43               0.00              2.71             0.00              3.14
                                          (0.43)             (0.00)            (2.43)            (0.00)           (2.86)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Community Based                1.55         0.15                     0.88         0.09                  56.8      60.0
Distribution
Information, Education         0.54         0.06                     0.31         0.03                  57.4      50.0
and Communication
Strengthening Back-up          2.27         0.23                     1.24         0.13                  54.6      56.5
Support
Traning                        0.64         0.06                     0.42         0.04                  65.6      66.7
Total                          5.00         0.50                     2.85         0.29                  57.0      58.0




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of the Malawi Population and Family Planning Learning and Innovation
Loan (LIL) Project.

This annex presents the results of the cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) of the Population and Family
Planning Project (Pop/FP) Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) in Malawi, using couple-years protection
(CYP) as a measure of project effectiveness. The findings of the analysis suggest that: (a) the project
yielded considerable CYPs during its life (an estimated total of 65,611 CYPs for four years), generating
knock-on fertility-reducing benefits for women, as well as health benefits for women and their families; (b)
the end-of-project CYPs generated in the pilot districts far exceeded those in control districts, indicating a
significant positive project effect; and (c) that the crude cost-effectiveness ratios ­ accounting only for costs
that the project incurred, but including unquantified CYPs that other interventions may have contributed ­
show cost per CYP to vary from US$7 to US$10, comparing favorably with similar figures recorded by
other community-based contraceptive distribution programs. Due to data limitations and the specific
reason for which the analysis was undertaken (i.e., calculate what the government would have to spend to
scale up the project), other non-project costs and benefits from other non-project interventions operating in
the pilot districts cannot be accounted for. Thus, the real resource costs are likely to be higher, and the real
benefits are likely to be lower, than what the crude cost/CYP figures show. Nevertheless, the order of
magnitude of the cost-effectiveness ratios does provide endorsement for the project to be scaled up by the
government.

This annex is organized as follows: Section A discusses the calculation of project effectiveness as
measured by by CYPs. Section B discusses the calculation of project costs. Section C discusses the
estimated project cost per CYP in 2003.

A. Estimating Project Effectiveness

Each contraceptive method has a particular level of use which equates to a year of protection from
pregnancy, i.e., a couple-year's protection (CYP). Based on the units delivered and/or duration of use of
the particular method, the CYPs of different contraceptive methods can be aggregated to measure the total
protection from the risk of pregnancy. This analysis uses CYPs as a standard measure of project
effectiveness.

Figure 1 shows the CYPs in the pilot and control districts as taken from the project's draft Final Evaluation
Report. At the start of the project, CYPs in the project districts were below those of the control districts,
but as the project progressed, project districts' CYPs dramatically increase and ultimately exceeded those
of the control districts, suggesting a strong positive project effect. In the final year of the project (i.e.,
2003), it is estimated 65,611 CYPs were produced, using predicted values from fitting a simple linear
regression to the previous time periods' trend in CYPs.




                                                       - 26 -

  The cost-effectiveness analysis Figure 1 : Total CYPs in Project and Control Districts 1999-2003

                                 70,000


                                              Project                                           65,611


                                 60,000
                                              Control


                                 50,000

     (CYP)                                                            45,331
                                                                      43,630

                                 40,000                                             39,814

          Protection                                                                            34,545
                    of
                                 30,000      29,094
                      Years
                                                                                    25,299
                                                          22,672

                           Couple20,000

                                                          16,212
                                             13,380

                                 10,000




                                     0
                                          1999         2000        2001          2002        2003



Figure 1: Total CYPs in Project and Control Districts, 1999-2003

All the CYPs generated in the project areas cannot be attributed to the project alone as the increase in
CYPs over time could be due to secular trends or other programs in the project districts. The Final
Evaluation Report suggests that in each of the project and control districts, at least one other family
planning program was in operation, in addition to the government's own program. However, all were
basically small scale and none had the Pop/FP's magnitude or intensity, allowing one to safely attribute to
the project most of the CYPs generated in the project areas. Unfortunately, data limitations do not allow
for calculating CYPs attributable to the project alone.

B. Estimating Project Costs

The purpose of the costing exercise is to calculate what the government will have to bear if it decides to
scale up the project. Thus, only costs actually incurred in the project were included. Although other
non-project costs are important, these were excluded since these are being incurred anyhow, with or
without the project, e.g., salaries of civil servants performing tasks for the project, logistical support, etc.
Project costs were estimated for 2003, the final year of the project, for project staff salaries, transportation
expenses for project oversight, training costs, cost of vehicles purchased, and expenditures on information,
education and communication (IEC) activities. The following costs were excluded: the cost of
contraceptives supplied mostly by NGOs; contraceptive transportation and storage; government
expenditures on clinic-based family planning services in the pilot districts; expenditures on consultant
services; and expenditures on office equipment and rental space.




                                                                         - 27 -

Labor Costs: Information on the monthly salaries and benefits of project staff were obtained from the
project management unit (PMU) and information on the number of staff was obtained from the project's
draft Final Evaluation Report. In 2003, there were 166 community-based distribution agents (CBDAs)
working in the three project districts, and there were 5 drivers in the PMU. A total of 5 district primary
supervisors (DPS) supervised the CBDAs. The DPSs reported to three (one in each district) district family
planning officers (DFPC), who were also the local nurses/midwives. (The DFPCs are part of the regular
district health staff and since their salaries are borne by the government even without the project, these
were excluded in the calculation.) Annual expenditure on salaries and benefits in 2003 was estimated at
US$56,544 (Table 1).

Table 1: Staff Salaries and Benefits, in U.S. Dollars, 2003

                        Item                              Unit Cost Per Total Cost Per
                                               Number     Month         Year
                        CBDA allowance         166        7             13,944
                       District Primary        5          144           8,640
                       Supervisor (DPS)
                       Project coordinator 1              1,140         13,680
                       Project officer         1          1,000         12,000
                        Drivers                5          90            5,400
                        Secretary              1          240           2,880
                        Total                  56,544

Transportation and Fuel Costs: Each DPS was provided with a motorcycle and each DFPC, with a
four-wheel drive vehicle. The PMU had five assigned vehicles assigned. Based on the US$245/month fuel
allowance for the DFPC, it was assumed that the monthly fuel cost per PMU vehicle was US$200. Each
CBDA was provided with a bicycle for IEC. However, no transportation costs were attributable for
bicycles, but their annualized capital costs were included. Table 2 shows the annual transportation costs
incurred by the project.

Table 2: Transportation Costs in U.S. Dollars, 2003

               Item                                               Unit Cost Per Total Cost Per
                                                       Number     Month         Year
               For DFPC vehicle                        3          245           8,820
               For DPS motorcycles                    5           11            672
               Project office vehicles                 5          200           12,000
               Total                                   21,492

PMU Costs: The cost items include expenditures on stationery and cell phone use. Information on the
rental cost of the office space was not included, since it was government property. Table 3 shows the
operating costs for the PMU.




                                                       - 28 -

Table 3: Project Management Unit Operating Costs, in U.S. Dollars, 2003

             Item                                               Unit Cost Per Total Cost Per
                                                     Number     Month           Year
             Stationery and accessories              1          500             6,000
             Project coordinator cell phone time     1          70              840
             Total                                   6,840

Capital Costs: The main items of capital expenditure are on vehicle depreciation, training, IEC materials,
and CBDA uniforms. IEC was included in capital costs since much of the expenditures in this category
was on producing IEC materials and imparting IEC training, with benefits far exceeding one year. Capital
costs were annualized at alternative discount rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, and 20 percent, assuming a
useful life of 5 years. Expenditures on these goods would have occurred over the duration of the project
and it is assumed that their replacement cost has remained unchanged over this time.

Table 4: Annualized Capital Costs and Total Project Costs, in U.S. Dollars, 2003.

                                                                Useful Life Annual Capital Cost ($)
                                                                Years        Discount Rates
 Item                     Units        Unit Cost   Total Cost                5%          10%          20%

Project vehicles                 8        12,500    100,000     5             23,100    26,378       33,434
Motorcycles                      5         1,250       6,250    5              1,444     1,649         2,090
Bicycles                      195             50       9,750    5              2,252     2,572         3,260
CBDA uniforms                 166            100     16,600     5              3,835     4,379         5,550
CBDA and supervisor
training                         1        26,875     26,875     5               6,208    7,089         8,985
HSA training to
supervise CBDA                   1        65,000      65,000    5             15,015    17,146        1,732
IEC materials                    1     1,442,589   1,442,589    5            333,238 380,5304       82,310
Annual capital costs      385,092        439,743     557,360
Annual recurrent costs     84,876         84,876      84,876
 Annual project costs     469,968        524,619     642,236


D. Estimating Average Cost Per CYP in 2003

Under the different capital cost discounting assumptions, the average cost per CYP in 2003 ranges between
$7 and $10. These costs were calculated when Malawi's community-based distribution program is still
relatively young, i.e., they have not reached the lowest point of the long-run average cost curve, as is the
case in more mature CBD-based family planning programs. Thus, the Malawi CBD cost per CYP figures
are likely to decline further as the program matures.

In comparison to the Malawi Pop/FP figures, the Zimbabwe CBD program in 1998 showed
average cost per CYP of US$171 (inclusive of the cost of contraceptives). Including the cost of
contraceptives in the Malawi costing would certainly increase the average cost per CYP, though it
is not likely that the contraceptive cost will reach US$10 per CYP. It must also be noted that the
Zimbabwe program is a much more mature program, although it is less capital intensive than the




                                                     - 29 -

Malawi program.

The cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) of the Population and Family Planning Project (Pop/FP)
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) in Malawi was carried out using couple-years protection
(CYP) as a measure of project effectiveness. It is estimated that the project produced a total of
65,611 CYPs over four years. The substantial number of CYPs generated by the project would
produce fertility-reducing and health benefits for women and their families. Further, the
end-of-project CYPs generated in the pilot districts far exceeded those in control districts
indicating a significant and positive project effect. The crude cost-effectiveness ratios show cost
per CYP to vary from US$7 to US$10, comparing favorably with estimates from other
community-based contraceptive distribution programs. Costs included in the analysis are
expenditures which would be incurred by the government to scale up the project while the CYPs
included are mostly attributable to project activities. The order of magnitude of the
cost-effectiveness ratios provides an endorsement for the project to be scaled up by the
government. Details of this CEA are shown in Annex 3a.


1Population Council. (April 2001). An assessment of the Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council's
Community Based Distribution Program. Downloaded from www.populationcouncil.org.




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/97                     5    Team Leader (1)                     S               S
                                             Public Health Spec. (1)
                                             Sr. Public Health Spec. (1)
                                             Financial Mgmt. (1)
                                             Operations Officer (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/1998                 12     Team Leader (1)                     S               S
                                             Population Sepc. (1)
                                             IEC Specialist (1)
                                             M & E Specialist (1)
                                             Demographer (1)
                                             Health Economist (1)
                                             Fin. Management (1)
                                             CBD Program Spec. (1)
                                             Representatives (PSII,
                                             MOHP, PPT & DHMTs) (4)


 Supervision
              07/1999                   3    Team Leader (1)                     S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1)
                                             Financial Management (1)
              10/1999                   3    Team Leader (1)                     S               S
                                             Task Manager (1)
                                             Communications Spec. (1)
              04/2000                   8    Team Leader (1);                    S               S
                                             Communications Spec. (1); Fin.
                                             Management Spec. (1);
                                             Procurement Analyst (1)
                                             Representatives (MOHP, Gender,
                                             Information and NGOs (4)
              02/2001                  10    TTL/Health Eonomist (1); Health     S               S
                                             Spec. (1); Sr. Communications
                                             Spect. (1); Consultant (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1),
                                             Representatives (MOHP, PIU,
                                             DfID, UNFPA and USAID) (5)
              10/2001                  10    TTL/Economist (1); Health           S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Fin. Management
                                             Spec. (1); Proc. Officer (1);
                                             Representatives (MOHP, MOF,
                                             PMT, UNFPA, UNICEF and
                                             WHO) (6)
              06/2002                   6    TTL/Sr. Economist (1); Lead         S              HS



                                              - 31 -

                                           Health SP.-POP/RH (1); Fm
                                           Spec. (1) Representatives
                                           (MOHP, MOF, PMT) (3)
               10/2002                 9   TTL/Sr. Economist (1); Lead         S    HS
                                           Health SP-POP/RH (1); Sr.
                                           Health Specialsit (1); Financial
                                           Management (1); Procurement
                                           Spec. (1); Communication//IEC
                                           SP. (1) Representatives (MOHP,
                                           MOF, PMT) (3)
               06/2003                 5   TTL/Sr. Economist (1); Lead         S    S
                                           Health Spec. (2); Financial Spec.
                                           (1); Procurement Spec. (1)

 ICR
               12/2003 -             17     TTL (1); Sr. Proc. Spec (1);       S    S
               includes final               Sr. Operations Off. (1); Sr.
               supervision                  Health Spec. (1); Consultant
                                            (1); Lead Spec. POP/Reproc.
                                            Health (1); Sr. Financial
                                            Spec. (1); Sr. Economist (1);
                                            Lead Health Spec. (1)
                                            Representatives DfID (5);
                                            NORAD/SIDA(3)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           135.6                            221.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 15.5                             36.5
  Supervision                          93.43                            301.2
  ICR                                  11.98                             52.8
  Total                              256.51                             612.4




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA
Community participation and NGO
invlovement was sustantial




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. 2003 Family Planning and Reproduction Health Survey: End-of-Poject Survey of Selected Pilot and
Control Districts in Malawi. MACRO. 2003.

2. Supervision Report from the Malawi Population and Family Planning Learning and Innovation Loan
Supervision Mission - Mid-Term Review, March 6, 2001.

3. Project Appraisal Document, Malawi Population and Family Planning Project (ID: P036038),
September 23, 1998.

4. Guide to Designing and Managing Community-based Health Financing Schemes in East and Southern
Africa. PHR & REDSO/USAID. 2000

5. Programs That Deliver: Logistics' Contribution to Better Health in Developing Countries.
JSI/USAID.2001

6. Post Abortion Care Training in Africa. Rogo K, Lema VM and Rae GO. IPAS. 1999

7. The Role of HSAs in the Delivery of Health Services and Immunization in Malawi. Kadzandira JM and
Chilowa WR. Centre for Social Research, University of Malawi. 2001

8. Demographic and Health Survey 1994. MACRO 1994

9. Project Appraissal Document, Malawi Social Action Funds II.( ID: P049599)

10. The Millenium Development Goals in Africa: Promises and progress. UNDP/UNICEF 2002
(wwww.undp.org)
11. Malawi Country Assessment Strategy. The World Bank. 1997

12. Demographic and Health Survey 2000. MACRO 2000

13. Project Appraisal Document, Malawi Social Action Fund III. PAD 2003 ( ID: P075911)

14. Phillips, James F., Wendy L. Greene, and Elizabeth F. Jackson. 1999. "Lessons from
community-based distribution of family planning in Africa." Policy Research Division Working Paper no.
121. New York: Population Council.




                                                  - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report Prepared by MoH

                          T H E G O V E R N M E N T O F M A L A W I




                                T H E M I N I S T R Y O F H E A L T H

                      POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
                                        CREDIT NO. MAI 3133
                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

December, 2003.

THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
P.O. BOX 30377
LILONGWE 3

MALAWI.
INTRODUCTION

As part of the strategies for reducing population growth, Ministry of Health and Population implemented
the Population and Family Planning Project (Pop/FP). The project was a Learning and Innovative Loan to
Malawi Government by World Bank.

GOAL OF THE PROJECT

The overall goal of this project was to test the feasibility of a comprehensive, district-wide
Community-Based Distribution (CBD) approach to Population and Family Planning services provision in
the three pilot districts through the public sector. The three pilot study districts selected were, Chitipa
(Northern Region), Ntchisi (Central Region) and Chiradzulu (Southern Region). Each study area was
paired with a control district of Karonga in the north, Dowa in central and Mulanje in the south. The three
districts were selected on the basis of being among the least developed and with very poor access to all
primary health care services including Family Planning.

The expected outcome of the project was an increase in the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) for
modern family planning methods through increased knowledge and approval of family planning with
increased demand for modern family planning services and increased access to such services among men,
women and adolescents.

The project was approved by Parliament for funding by the World Bank (IDA) in December 1998 and
became effective on 14th April 1999.




                                                      - 36 -

The project credit was for SDR 3,800,000 or US$ 5,000,000 with government contribution of US
$500,000. It was for 3 years with an extension of 1 year and 6 months respectively.

Due to formalities required in the implementation of the project, expenditure only started from 1st July
1999. The period April to June 1999 was used for preliminary financial arrangement such as opening of
Special Account in CITI Bank, New York and local accounts at Commercial Bank of Malawi in Lilongwe.

PROJECT OBJECTIVES

At the end, the project was expected to achieve the following objectives:

o       Double the contraceptive rate from 14% to 28% by 2002.
o       Increase to 70% the proportion of men, women and youths with positive knowledge and attitude
          towards Family Planning by 2002.
o       Provide adequate equipment and supplies for all family planning clinics in the pilot districts.
o       Train service providers to provide wide range of reproductive health services.
o       Train a total number of 100 Community Based Distribution Agents and strive to retain at
          least 80%.
o       Introduce Youth Reproductive Health services.

In order to achieve the above objectives, the project had five main components that were managed by
technical experts and these included:

1)      Creating demand for Family Planning services through multimedia IEC.

2)      Provision of FP services through CBD approach.

3)      Development of capacity of health workers to provide a wide range of FP services as well as
training of community leaders to support the provision of Family Planning to men, women and youths.

4)      Setting up of a monitoring and evaluation mechanism for determining impact of the intervention on
specified project indicators.

5)      Providing back-up support to family planning clinics and providers to ensure that clients referred
by CBDAs are properly managed.

6)      Provision of Reproductive Health services to adolescents.

        To establish benchmarks for the project, a baseline Family Planning and Reproductive Health
        Survey (FPRHS) was conducted in the six districts of Chitipa, Ntchisi, Chiradzulu, Karonga,
        Dowa and Mulanje in 1999. In addition, a training needs assessment was also conducted in
        December 1999 at almost the same time, which confirmed lack of trained choice and poor infection
        control practices. The baseline findings underscored the extent of unmet need and provided further
        justification to pilot an affordable, sustainable system that could improve coverage and quality.

PROJECT DESIGN

During the project design Ministry of Health consulted widely and the consultation involved technocrats
within and outside the MOHP with previous experience in project design of similar objectives. Project


                                                      - 37 -

completion issues in terms of reporting mechanisms, monitoring and evaluation, employment of project
personnel, supervision, relationship management, steering committee and implementation arrangements
were well spelt out.

IMPLEMENTATION PLANS

Annual work plans corresponding to the activities, budget, and capacity of the project were produced.
These were reviewed and updated every quarter, and the budgets adjusted before carrying out the actual
implementation.

PROJECT PERSONNEL

Project management personnel especially the Project Coordinator and Accountant were recruited and
started operating as early as March 1999, while component managers, which included the IEC, Monitoring
and Evaluation, Training backup support specialists were employed in September 1999. The Youth
Reproductive Health officer was recruited after a year. However, the project had experienced a serious
staff turnover during its implementation period.

PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

A Project Management Unit, with the following responsibilities and attributes, headed the project:

o        Coordination of work undertaken by implementing districts and direct implementation of some
project components.

o        PMU is subordinated to Ministry of Health and Population, which is lead implementing agents.
The Project Coordinator was reporting to the Secretary for health and population. From February 2002, to
July 2003 the project coordinator was reporting to the Director of Planning is responsible for all
development activities. Thereafter, the project coordinator was reporting to the Director of Clinical and
Population Services as recommended during the June 2003, World Bank Mission. This was done to enable
Project Management Team to closely work with Reproductive Health Unit (RHU) so that RHU should be
primed to take over the control roles of PMT which include technical support, supervision, coordination,
knowledge sharing, commodity logistics and central aspects of monitoring and evaluation.

o        The Technical Assistance obtained in the project has generally been very useful in improving the
pace of implementation.

o        In the original design it was agreed that National Family Planning Council of Malawi (NFPCM)
would handle Monitoring and Evaluation before it was dissolved and Department of Population Services
was entrusted with the role of making sure that there is proper coordination of RHU, NFPCM and Pop/FP
Project.

IMPLEMENTATION STATUS AND ACTIVITIES

Project has been particularly successful in the implementation of its activities despite the encountered at
different stages of implementation of various components. There have been some delays in the
implementation of most activities since June 2002. The main reason for the delays was funding. The Bank
was unable to disburse funds in time due to delays in counterpart contribution. Despite the delays the
project continued to perform well and implementation of most activities were on course as described below:


                                                    - 38 -

1. Community based distribution of contraceptives and clinic back up

There was a steady rise in the number of clients receiving pills, spermicides and condoms directly from
CBDAs and effective referrals for long term and permanent methods. 167 CBDAs were trained against the
target of 100 set and they have seen an average of 203 clients per CBDA, which is slightly above the target
of 200. However, there was a considerable inter-district variation with Chitipa leading 230 per CBDA,
Ntchisi 198 per CBDA and Chiradzulu 175 per CBDA.

The inter-district variation is also seen in preference of method. Condoms accounted for 58% of methods
in Chitipa compared to only 37% and 27% in Ntchisi and Chiradzulu respectively. These differences have
important programmatic implications such as method mix and commodity stock outs. Some CBDAs
complained about delays in delivery of commodities.

It was noted during the World Bank mission supervisory visit of October 2002 that there were delays in the
provision of services to surgical contraception clients. Clients waiting for BTL ranged from 25 to 40.
Arrangements were made to clear the backlog especially in Ntchisi by requesting service providers from
other districts to come and assist.

2. Youth and Male Involvement

Interventions focusing on adolescent reproductive health were not well developed within the initial project
activities; consequently the project management team designed the youth RH component. The project made
the decision to focus on adolescent Reproductive Health in 2001. Major activities therefore included IEC,
Youth Friendly clinical services, formation of Youth clubs and training of youth CBDAs and peer
educators as well as hiring of a youth Reproductive Health Officer. The linkage between youth clubs
activities and reproductive was clear. In rural areas, where poverty is pervasive and idleness risky - the
appeal from youths for more support for the youth clubs and Income Generating Activities was
emphasized.

The only youth forum that was conducted by the project in the three pilot projects proved to be an
important intervention when patronized by traditional leaders and religious leaders. This indicates that the
community stakeholders approve youth friendly health services that are community based. The advocacy
strategy targeting the traditional leaders and the religious leaders implemented in the first year is a
significant factor to this outcome.

3. CBDA Supply

A total of 172 CBDAs were trained with 166 retained as of December 2003 and are continuing with the
distribution of contraceptives in 900 villages: to a total of 28,273 clients with 12,253 men receiving
condoms for STD/HIV prevention. The CBDAs were receiving regular supportive supervision from the
primary supervisors and scheduled incentives in the form of allowances at K600 per month, uniform,
bicycles and spare parts, backpacks, shoes and T-shirts, umbrellas and piece of clothes.

4. Training

Seven Primary Supervisors trained and provided regular supervision to CBDAs; 160 health workers trained
in either Family Planning initial, LTPC, PAC, STD syndromic management, CBDA/IEC, TOT and
infection prevention.


                                                      - 39 -

5. Youth Reproductive Health

30 youths trained as CBDA and operational; 62 youths trained as peer educators and have established
youth clubs that are operational; 50 health workers (nurses, clinical officers and medical assistants) trained
in youth friendly health services; 35 health facilities are operating an integrated or stand alone youth
clinics.

6. Information, Education and Communication

The project with assistance from other stakeholders developed 34 IEC messages, which were tested before
conducting multimedia dissemination; 39,000 posters; 17,000 leaflets and 3,000 comic books were printed
and distributed; 200 artists were trained in interactive drama to assist the project in the dissemination of FP
and STD/HIV/AIDS prevention messages.

Family planning, STI/HIV/AIDS prevention advocacy was conducted for 200 traditional leaders.
Comedies, jingles and infomercials were developed and aired on Malawi Broadcasting Corporation twice a
week. A total of 161 radios were distributed to CBDAs to be used for community listening groups. Family
planning campaign fairs were conducted in 94 locations using different themes to motivate people to use
family planning methods through the CBDAs. As an advocacy strategy traditional leaders were trained in
order to avoid gate keeping and encourage provide them with enough knowledge that they can use to
motivate people in their communities.

7. Clinic Backup Support

A total of 74 Health workers trained in Contraception Distribution and Logistics Management Information
System (CDLMIS). The health workers were also taught to make sure that referral and feedback system is
in place; equipment and supplies for infection prevention is available in all health facilities. DHMT was
given an orientation in-order to equip them with enough knowledge and skills in management of the CBD
program; transport STI drugs and contraceptives to make sure that these resources are always available at
all levels of care.

ACHIEVEMENTS

The expected outcome of the project was to increase contraceptive prevalence rate for modern
contraceptives in the pilot districts compared to the control district. The project was able to meet the
expected outcome since the CPR doubled in the pilot districts from 14% to 28% compared to the control
district.
Achievement of the objectives was very high and was revealed by the following key outputs:

Increased positive attitude to family planning services among community members. At least 70% of
the adult population in the pilot districts will hold a positive attitude to family planning.

l End of the Project Survey revealed that 95% of the adult population held a positive view towards
family planning in the pilot district as opposed to 91% in the control districts.

l The IEC activities created an enabling environment for the provision of adolescent reproductive health
service in that young people can now seek care without opposition and fear of being stigmatised.




                                                      - 40 -

l Both Traditional leaders and Religious leaders hold positive views about family planning. While
49.6% women in the control districts wanted another baby soon, only 34.1% of the women wanted
a baby soon in the pilot districts.

Increased access to family planning services among men, women and youths in rural areas. One
hundred CBDAs will have been trained and at least 80% of them will be retained in the program at the
end of the project.

l Almost twice as many CBDAs (172 instead of 100) were trained with a retention rate of 97% in the
program. One hundred and sixty ­six CBDAs are working in the project at the time of writing this report.
As a result Contraceptive Prevalence Rate has been doubled in the project impact districts (20% - 42% in
Chiradzulu; 22.6% - 61% in Ntchisi; and 38.2% - 58% in Chitipa).

l On the average the CPR rose from 35.7% to 65.6%. Further the proportion of clients served by
CBDAs rose from 2% to 24% in the pilot districts, while it rose from 0.5% to only 2% in the control
districts. In addition, the proportion of women using traditional methods in the pilot districts decreased
from 9% to 6%.

Improved capacity of health facilities to provide a wide range of family planning services, including
counseling and adolescent/youth reproductive health services resulting in improved referral and
support supervision for the CBD program.

l All health facilities not run by the Roman Catholic Church were providing a range of family planning
methods as prescribed by the government for each level of care.

l The project added on a component of youth friendly health services in-order to meet the reproductive
health needs of the young people, who are a vulnerable group and have problems accessing health services,
especially RH services.

l The project provided the health facilities with enough equipment and training to the clinicians and
nurses in order to provide services like PAC, Long Term and Permanent contraception.

Structures for District-wide CBD FP program instituted.

l Structures for a district-wide CBD service for FP have been put in place and implemented and
52% - 70% of the districts were covered with CBD service.

l The strategy adopted for the achievement of the project objectives was appropriate and effective
one of which was community mobilization through the development of a multi-media IEC programme to
create demand for family planning. These were implemented through the following mechanisms:
Ø        Development of target specific messages
Ø        Introduction of youth counseling services
Ø        Training of health workers, community leaders and drama groups in the delivery of FP IEC
Ø        Conducting of IEC campaigns, and
Ø        Development of multi-media FP/STI messages.

CONSTRAINTS

1.       The design of the project did not consider integration with the National level program of


                                                     - 41 -

Reproductive health, which has made it difficult in the handing over of the project activities to the MOHP.

2.       The procurement process was not in favour of the time frame that is needed to operate a project.
The process of going through an IPC then GCU to procure items delayed the implementation of some
project activities. This applied to both local and international procurement processes.

3. Staff's turns over at both the PMU and district staff resulted in lack of Continuation of activities. A
good example was the lack of proper execution of the youth program, which was attributed to the lack of a
proper replacement of the responsible officers. This was mainly attributed to the lack of gratuity at the end
of the project, which could have meant having people available working until the time of writing the project
completion report.

4. The CBDAs created demand in the project districts for long-term Contraceptives but the high turnover
of the staff trained by the project in the provision of long-term contraception did not allow for the proper
continuation of care.

5. The districts staff did not have enough capacity to do close monitoring of the Project.

6. The population distribution in some areas did not allow some CBDAs to reach all the people in
the districts.

7. Some villages were not covered in the project districts due to inadequate number of CBDAs trained
in these areas.

8. The project focus was only for the rural areas ignoring the urban areas that are usually over crowded
and could use family planning services.



LESSONS LEARNT

1.       This POP/FP project is the first project to study the effect and feasibility of a district wide CBD
programme in Malawi. The end-of-project Impact Evaluation revealed that a district wide approach in
rural setting is possible as evidenced by the marked rise in CPR.

2.       While CBD has proved to be an effective strategy for accelerating coverage for family planning in
rural areas, post-abortion care remains limited in availability because as a government policy it is only
available at hospitals which are geographically inaccessible to a majority of the people

3.       Only 60% of the districts were covered with FP services because the project under estimated the
numbers of CBDAs required to work in the areas that they had to cover. A more correct estimate is one
CBDA per 1000 population.

4.       The levels of CBDA incentives were not sustainable; alternative less expensive approaches must be
worked out to continue with the CBD strategy, such as the integration of CBD activities in the work of
HSAs in the community and finding alternative ways so that the community should sustain the work of the
CBDAs.

5.       Static health facilities remain the main source of family planning services due to the preference of
the injectable contraceptive by family planning acceptors.


                                                      - 42 -

6.       To decongest the static health facilities and serve more people, government is considering including
the injectable contraceptive at community level using the community health nurses and the HSAs.

7.       Lack of male involvement in family planning hampered contact tracing for the prevention of spread
of Sexually Transmitted Infections. Increased effort should be made to encourage male participation in
RH/FP.

8.       The Institutional Framework provided was adequate and effective in implementing the project
strategy and activities.

9.       Resources allocated for the project activities were adequate.

10.      A district-wide CBD programme was implemented in that CBDAs were widely working in the pilot
districts. About 30 ­ 40% of the villages have not yet been reached because the CBDA numbers required
were underestimated.

11.      District Health Management Team (DHMT) is key in the implementation of the project at district
level but control of the budget by the project management team reduced the execution rate of the project.
More frequent Steering Committee meetings could increase DHMT familiarization with the project and
thereby increase the chances of integration of project activities in the district health plans and thereby
facilitate take over at the end of the project.

12.      In-order to improve data collection and analysis of the project activities training in Contraceptive
Distribution and Logistics Management Information System needs to be accompanied by
institutionalisation of evidence-based programme management.

13.      There is need to provide MVA at the health centre level, nearer to the community women instead of
concentrating it at hospital levels.

14.      It was not easy for a developing country like Malawi to consistently manage the counter part
funding in view of the economic situation the country has had in the last three years during the
implementation of the project.

15.      The devaluation of the local currency made worse the issue of counter part funding.

16.      The MOHP did not consider the availability of the buildings where the project was taking place to
be included as an expense that the government was putting in. including the government staff that were
assisting the project in various ways. It could have been ideal to monazite these elements so that it could be
translated as part of the counter part funding.

17.      The project was also implemented at a time that there was severe drought in the country, which
meant that government priorities were reversed. As such spending money on issues like family planning
was not a priority which led to the bank also stopping its financing of the project. This affected the
outcomes of the project final numbers.

18.      The high project staff turnover affected the closing out activities of the project. This was attributed
to lack of a gratuity at the end-of-the project, which did not see people committing to their positions until
the end-of-the-project.


                                                      - 43 -

WAY FORWARD

1.        The project has proved beyond doubt that the District Wide CBD Approach to the delivery of
family planning services to rural populations is both feasible and an effective strategy for accelerating
coverage for family planning will be maintained and also extended nationwide.

2.        The Reproductive Health Unit (RHU) of the MOHP has assumed the Project Management Team
(PMT) structure and will maintain the strong Support Supervision structure developed by the project at the
district level to implement an effective CBD programme nationwide.

3.        MOHP will develop Adolescent Friendly Health Services strategy in order to standardize
Adolescent Reproductive Health interventions

4.        MOHP will increase IEC and Advocacy for male involvement in Reproductive Health services.

5.        MOHP will strengthen the integration of the provision of reproductive health services clinics at
District, Health centre and community levels.

6.        To enhance sustainability of the Project, the ministry will utilize lessons learnt to implement project
activities through EHP using HSA to deliver community based health services including Family Planning

7.        MOHP will initiate consultation to expand the scope of practice for EN/Ms to include PAC,
Norplant insertion and manual removal of retained products.

8.        Selling of contraceptives by CBDAs will be strongly considered in order for CBDAs to cover for
their costs and serve as incentive.

9.        Discussion with MASAF will rapidly be concluded to strengthen the scope of RH service provision
at community level. RH and HIV intervention will be integrated in order to reduce duplication and serve
resources. While this project was focussing on RH services, the discussions with MASAF will seek to
develop a community health package that the community can understand and access and it will also assist
in development of an advocacy package for the community in order for them to access health services.

10.       MOHP will establish and strengthen the logistics at community level with special reference to the
interface between CBDA, HSAs and the health centre.

11.       MOHP will pursue the integration of CBD work in the responsibilities of HSAs and refresher
training has been provided to a total of 270 HSAs in-order to supervise and compliment the role of the
CBDAs in the community. It will however be necessary to double the current numbers of HSAs from 4 000
to 8 000.

12.       Male involvement in Reproductive Health, including family planning should be vigorously pursued
to make STI prevention more effective. The strategy may include making health facilities, currently
crowded with female clients, more male friendly by designating space for male services, increase the
number of male RH service providers and introduce more male RH services such as routine screening for
prostate enlargement and cancer.

BANK PERFORMANCE


                                                      - 44 -

1.       Overall the bank performed very well through communication and their supervisory visits to the
project and the project districts.

2.       Their supervision included visits with the community to get an in-depth view of the performance of
the projects.

3.       Where there was need for a no objection, prompt responses were received and appropriate action
was taken.

4.       There was support in initiating some links with other partners in an effort to sustain the CBDA
activities. Efforts were made in trying to link the project with MASAF activities and meetings have been
initiated.

5.       The bank at some point did not consider the financial problems the country had due to drought and
devaluation of the local currency. They went ahead and suspended the replenishment of the special account,
which led to activities being at a stand still including delivery of services at community level.




                                                       - 45 -

- 46 -

