Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3133-MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Population and Family Planning Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 13, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3133-MAI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 13, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
Page  2
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"CBD" means community-based distribution of contraceptives; 
(b)
"CBDA" means a community-based distribution agent for contraceptives; 
(c)
"CDLMIS" means the Borrower’s Contraceptive Distribution Logistics 
Management Information System; 
(d)
"Control Districts" means the following districts in the Borrower’s 
territory, namely Karonga, Dowa and Mulanje where the CBD approach will not be used, 
and surveys will be carried out under the Project; 
(e)
"DHMT" means a district health management team under MOHP (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(f)
"FP" means family planning; 
(g)
"HSA" means a health surveillance assistant appointed by MOHP; 
(h)
"IEC" means information, education and communication; 
(i)
"Malawi Kwacha" and "MK" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(j)
"MOHP" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Population;
(k)
"DDLGA" means the Borrower’s Department of District and Local Government 
Administration in the Office of the President and Cabinet; 
(l)
"NFPC" means the National Family Planning Council of Malawi, established 
by the Borrower pursuant to the National Family Planning Council of Malawi Act, 1997; 
(m)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia, workplans, training plans, 
monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for the purposes of 
implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from time to time, in 
consultation with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the PIP; 
(n)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit within MOHP established under 
the Population, Health and Nutrition Project (Credit No. 2220-MAI); 
(o)
"Project Districts" means the following districts in the Borrower’s 
territory, namely Chitipa, Ntchisi, and Chiradzulu in which CBD activities under the 
Project will be carried out;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(q)
"STD" means sexually transmitted diseases; and 
(r)
"TBA" means traditional birth attendants. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2009, and ending August 15, 
2038.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2018, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  4
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MOHP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, population and family planning practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  5
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and 
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions that the Borrower has:
(a)
selected the CBD Project Coordinator, referred to in paragraph 5 (a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and an Assistant Accountant for the Project located in 
the PIU, both in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
executed the Memorandum of Understanding between MOHP and NFPC referred 
to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
installed a financial management and accounting reporting system, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANCE
44407 MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Willie Chokani 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment, vehicles,
  1,500,000
100% of foreign
motorcycles, bicycles,
expenditures and
materials, medical
90% of local
supplies and other
expenditures
goods
(2)
Consultants' services
  1,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(3)
Training and IEC
    380,000
100% of foreign
activities
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(4)
Incremental operating
    150,000
85% of local
costs
expenditures
(5)
Unallocated
    670,000
TOTAL
  3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
Page  7
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel, supervision costs and salaries of contract 
staff but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower; and
(d)
the term "IEC activities" means expenses incurred on account of 
IEC-related training, materials, workshops, radio programs, posters, leaflets and 
campaign fairs, and dissemination of same. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) equipment, vehicles, 
motorcycles, bicycles, materials, medical supplies and other goods and consultants 
services (firms), under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) 
consultants services (individuals) under contracts costing less than $50,000; and (c) 
training, IEC activities and incremental operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to test the feasibility of implementing a 
comprehensive and district-wide Community-Based Distribution approach in the Project 
Districts, to increase modern contraceptive coverage rates in the Borrower’s 
territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community-Based Distribution of Contraceptives 
1.
Provision of family planning services in the Project Districts through CBDAs, 
and CBDA Supervisors. 
2.
Acquisition of vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, equipment, medical supplies and 
materials for above activities.
Part B:
IEC 
1.
Development, pre-testing, production and dissemination of appropriate materials 
based on knowledge, attitudes and practices studies on FP and STDs and the results of 
the sensitization processes. 
2.
Preparation and provisions of IEC materials in local languages to CBDAs. 
3.
Supporting youth-related activities in family planning, through counseling and 
training of service providers. 
4.
Carrying out targeted IEC training for service providers and non-service 
providers.
Part C:
Clinical Strengthening 
1.
Training of health staff in each Project District to provide backup clinical 
family planning services for beneficiaries and CBDAs in the Project Districts. 
2.
Strengthening the CDLMIS through expanding CDLMIS training to family planning 
staff and simplifying the service statistics on users of contraceptives.
Part D:
Training 
1.
Development of standard CBD protocols, to form the basis for training 
activities, supervision and performance assessment under the Project. 
2.
Training of CBDAs in contraceptive promotion, distribution and  use, providing 
referrals including for STD treatment and disseminating basic information and 
educational messages to clients on STD prevention and protection.
Page  8
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities of the Project activities, 
including a baseline survey, mid-point field study and final repeat survey through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and drugs estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3. and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
Page  9
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, and to the first two contracts procured through National Competitive Bidding the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000. 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants employed by the PIU and for Project management shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for the base-line survey under Part E of the Project may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  10
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
MOHP shall be responsible for the overall coordination and oversight of the 
implementation of the Project. 
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the PIP and shall not amend the PIP or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Steering 
Committee (PSC) chaired by the Principal Secretary, MOHP, to provide guidance in the 
interpretation of the Borrower’s population, FP and reproductive health policies for 
the Project. The PSC’s membership shall include senior representatives of relevant 
ministries, NFPC, District Health Offices in the Project and Control Districts, the 
Reproductive Health Unit and Population and Human Resources Development Unit of MOHP 
and NGOs. The PSC shall meet at least twice a year to review quarterly progress 
reports and the annual work program for the following year and to ensure the Project 
is being implemented in accordance with its objectives. The Population and Human 
Resources Development Unit of MOHP shall act as the Secretariat to the PSC.
4.
The Borrower shall enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with NFPC, 
acceptable to the Association, for the delivery of activities covered under NFPC’s 
mandate.
5.
(a)
The Project will be managed by the CBD Project Coordinator in MOHP. The 
CBD Project Coordinator shall be responsible for: (i) overall management of Project 
activities at the central and district levels; (ii) preparation and submission of 
quarterly progress reports, annual workplans and budgets for submission to the PSC and 
the Association; (iii) supervision of the CBDA supervisors; (iv) procurement, 
disbursement of funds, accounting, financial reporting and auditing carried out by the 
PIU; and (v) ensuring that project accounts are submitted to the Association on time.
(b)
The CBD Project Coordinator shall be supported by four technical 
specialists responsible for IEC, training, back-up clinical support, and overall 
monitoring and evaluation, respectively. The IEC Specialist, M & E Specialist, 
Training Specialist and the back-up Support Specialist, shall be appointed not later 
than three months after the Effective Date, all selected in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The M & E specialist referred to in subparagraph (b) above, shall be 
responsible, with the support of the NFPC for: (i) supervising data collection and 
analyzing and interpreting data, for input, output and outcome indicators; (ii) 
consolidating and maintaining all service statistics from the DHMT in a Project data 
bank; (iii) providing regular reports and feedback on progress of Project activities; 
(d) consolidating existing data collection instruments and commissioning new service 
statistics as needed. 
Page  11
6.
(a)
At the District level, the Project shall be implemented by the DHMT 
comprising the District Health Officer, District Nursing Officer, Administrator, 
Accountant, District Environmental Health Officer, Clinical Officer, two CBDA 
Supervisors and District Family Planning Coordinator.
(b)
The DHMT shall be responsible for: (i) providing back-up clinical support 
for referrals in injectables, IUCDs, sterilization and Norplant, and STD management; 
(ii) distribution of contraceptives to health units and CBDAs; (iii) provision to 
CBDAs of contraceptive kits; (iv) supervising CBDAs; (v) preparing quarterly progress 
reports; (vi) distribution of CBDAs’ incentive packages; and (vii) vehicle, motorcycle 
and bicycle maintenance.
7.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
including an in-depth mid-point field study of the CBD program, during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
8.
The Borrower shall by: (a) June 30, 1999, complete the fieldwork baseline survey 
in the Project and Control Districts; and (b) September 30, 2001, carry out a final 
evaluation survey in the same Districts. 
9.
The Borrower shall by December 31 in each year prepare and submit to the 
Association the training program for the subsequent year.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  12
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
Page  13
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
Contraceptive Prevalence Rates - Double Increase to 70% the number of men and women 
with positive attitudes towards family planning Train 100 CBDAs and retain at least 
80% of them at end of Project CBDAs have a list of 200 clients each by end of Project 
period Static health/FP Units have equipment, supplies and trained staff to provide 
the full range of clinical contraceptive services appropriate for each type of 
facility referred by the CBDAs
