Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17921-MAI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LENDING (CREDIT)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
(US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FOR A
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
September 23, 1998
Human Development 1
Country Department 3
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 1998)
Currency Unit =  M:alawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1  -, M:K26.45
SDR1      US$1.3315
NB: On September 17, 1998 after this Project was negotiated the Exchange Rate moved to
Mkl = US$0.0227
US$1 = Mk44.0000
MEASURES
Metric Systenm
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 3 0
(as of July 1998)
Vice President:          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:           Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader:           Norbert Mugwagwa



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS         Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
BLM          Banja La Mtsogolo
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBD          Community-Based Distribution
CBDA         Community-Based Distribution Agent
CBDO         Community-Based Distribution Officer
CDLMIS       Contraceptive Distribution Logistics Management Information System
CHAM         Christian Health Association of Malawi
CNA          Community Nexus Approach
CPR          Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DDLGA        Department of District & Local Government Administration
DFID         Department for International Development (UK)
DHMT         District Health Management Team
DHO          District Health Office
DHS          Demographic and Health Survey
EU           European Union
GOM          Government of Malawi
GTZ          Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HIV          Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education, and Communication
IUCD         Intra-uterine Contraceptive Device
KAP          Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS          Management Information System
MOHP         Ministry of Health and Population
NFPC         National Family Planning Council of Malawi
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PHN          Population, Health & Nutrition
PHRDU        Population and Human Resource Development Unit
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PPT          Project Preparation Team
PSC          Project Steering Committee
PSI          Population Services International
RHU          Reproductive Health Unit
STD/STI      Sexually Transmitted Diseases/Sexually Transmitted Infections
TFR          Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA        United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF       United Nations International Children's, Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WHO          World Health Organization



Malawi
Population and Family Planning Project
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective ...................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...............................2
2. Key Performance Indicators ...................................................2
3. Justification for the use of a Learning and Innovation Loan .....................................2
B:  Strategic Context ...................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
goal supported by the project ...................................................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...................................................                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ............................4
C: Project Description  Summary ...................................................5
1. Project components ...................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................7
3. Benefits and target population ...................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...................................................                     7
D: Project Rationale ..................................................                                                      12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................ 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies ..................................................                                             12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project (lesign ................................................. 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .............................................. 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..................................................                        14
E: Summary Project Analysis ..................................................                                               14
1. Economic ..................................................                                                          14
2. Financial ..................................................                                                         14
3. Technical ..................................................                                                        14
4. Institutional ..................................................                                                     15
5. Social: ..................................................                                                           15
6. Environmental assessment ................................................... 15
7. Participatory approach .................................................. 15
F:  Sustainability and Risks ..................................................                                              16
1. Sustainability .................................................. 16
2. Critical Risks .................................................. 17
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..................................................                                    18
G: Main Credit Conditions ..................................................                                                 18
1. Negotiations ....................................................                                                   18
2. Effectiveness Conditions ...................................................                                         18
3. Main Credit Conditions ...................................................                                           18
4. Other ...................................................                                                            18



H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                                                                     20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                                                                   20
Annex 1 Project Design Summary .........................                                                           21
Annex 2 Detailed Project Description .........................                                                     33
Annex 3 Estimated Project Costs                                                              ......................... 36
Annex 4 Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................ 37
Table A: Total Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements .................. 39
Table B: Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .......... 40
Table C: Allocation of IDA  Credit Proceeds .......................................... 42
Annex 5 Project Processing Budget and Schedule ................................................. 44
Annex 6 Documents in the Project File ....................................................                        45
Annex 7 Status of Bank Group Operations in Malawi IDA Credits in the
Operations Portfolio ...................................................                            46
Annex 8 Socio-Economic and Population Indicators ............................................. 47
Annex 9 Malawi at a Glance ...................................................                                    48
Map: IBRD No. 29658



Malawi
Population and Family Planning Project
Project Appraisal I)ocument
Africa Regional Olfice
Human Development I
Date: September 23, 1998                                         Task Team Leader: Norbert Mugwagwa, AFTHI
Country Director: Barbara Kafka, AFCO3                           Sector Manager: Ruth Kagia, AFTH I
Project ID: MW-PE-36038     Sector: Human Resources              Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: LIL                                          Program of Targeted Intervention:       [X3  Yes    [    No
Project Financing Data                         [] Loan         [X I Credit          [] Guarantee           [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5 million/SDR 3.8 million
Proposed terms:                                  [x ]   Multicurrency        []   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10             [3    Standard Variable      []   Fixed               [3      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 5% (but at present,
is waived)
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                        Local                 Foreign                Total
Govemment                                                                   0.5                                          0.5
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                                                                 5.0                  5.0
Other (specify)
Total                                                           5.5
Borrower: Govemment of Malawi
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): MOHP, NFPC
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):               1999          2000          2001
Annual        2.3           1.3           1.4
Cumulative        2.3           3.6           5.0
For Guarantees:                                            []    Partial credit       [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage: N/A
Project sponsor: N/A
Nature of underlying financing: N/A
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$) N/A
Final maturity N/A
Amortization profile N/A
Financing available without guarantee?: N/A                    [ ]     Ves                  []    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: N/A
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: N/A
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: November 1, 1998    Expected closing date: June 30, 2002



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of this project is to test the feasibility of a comprehensive and district-wide Community-
Based Distribution (CBD) approach to Population/Family P'lanning services provision in three pilot
districts through the public sector. This is expected to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate for
modern methods through (a) increased knowledge of and improved attitude towards family planning,
leading to increased demand for modem family planning (FP) services; and (b) increased access to such
services among men, women, and adolescents living in rural and under-served areas of Malawi.
2. Key Performance Indicators
The success of this project in the three pilot districts will be evaluated based on the following key
indicators and targets:
a) Double the Contraceptive Prevalence Rates (CPR) for rnodern family planning methods among target
groups (outcome);
b) Increase to 70 percent the proportion of men and women with positive attitude toward family
planning (output);
c) Train a total of about 100 Community-Based Distribution Agents (CBDAs) and retain at least 80
percent of them at the end of the project (input);
d) Ensure that CBDAs achieve an average list of at least 2,00 clients by the end of the project (output);
and
e) Ensure that all static health/FP units have the equipment, supplies and trained staff needed to provide
the full range of clinical contraceptive services appropriate for each type of facility to the clients
referred by the CBDAs (input).
Baseline values for indicators (a) and (b) will be determinecd through the project baseline survey, and the
targets will be reviewed and confirrned or modified on that basis. In addition to providing powerful tools
for assessing success of the approach being tested in this project, these indicators will be used to evaluate
the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the project CBD program against both quantitative and
qualitative success rates of existing family planning (FP) services and CBD programs in the public,
CHAM and other NGO sectors. This evaluation will serve as the basis for future nation-wide expansion
of the CBD program.
3. Justification for the use of a Learning and Innovation Loan
The use of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) for this project is appropriate for three reasons: First, a
LIL provides the necessary flexibility needed to modify sonme of the elements in the design as they unfold
(e.g. modifying the number of households to be covered by each CBDA). Second, a LIL provides the
necessary experience and opportunities to MOHP, NFPC and other agencies to strengthen their
management and planning capacities so that they can undertake a national CBD program. Third, a LIL
will test the institutional feasibility and cost-effectiveness of expanding the contraceptive prevalence rate
(CPR) for modern methods and decreasing fertility through an expansion of the Community-Based
Distribution approach.



Page 3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 18349-MAI.   Date of latest CAS discussion: August 27, 1998.
The main objectives of the Malawi CAS are to reduce poverty and increase economic growth through: (a)
macroeconomic stabilization; (b) unleashing private initiatives (c) population control and human resource
development; and (d) civil service reforms, capacity building and decentralization. This project would
contribute to strategic objective (c) by testing a new approach to population and family planning activities
at the community level in the rural/under-served areas of the project districts. This Community-Based
Distribution approach would expand on the experience gained from small-scale activities of the National
Family Planning Council (NFPC), MOHP, GTZ, Banja La Mtsogolo (BLM), and other NGOs.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Malawi's rapid and unsustainable population growth, caused by high fertility, is undermining
Government's efforts to reduce poverty. This high growth is increasing pressure on natural resources and
social services. The average land per capita in many parts of the country is already insufficient for
subsistence farming. Further growth in population will reduce land availability per capita, and increase
still further the already high levels of malnutrition, poverty, and environmental degradation. Demand for
social services such as education and health will increase, while the ability of the country to provide these
services will decline.
Malawi still has one of the highest total fertility rates (JFR) in sub-Saharan Africa, despite a slight recent
decline in fertility. The TFR declined from 7.6 children per woman in 1984 to 6.7 in 1992 according to the 1992
Demographic and Health Survey. The 1992 DHS also found that the desired TFR was 5.7 and that the met and
unmet demand' for contraception was 15 percent and 36 percent respectively.
In 1994, the Government of Malawi (GOM) adopted the National Population Policy to improve the standard of
living and quality of life through an improvement in key health indicators, such as declines in the TFR from 6.7
to 5.4 children per woman, in infant mortality from 134 to 100 per 1,000 live births, in child mortality from 234
to 150 per 1000, and in maternal mortality from 620 to 200-3 00 births per 100,000 live births by the year 2002.
One strategy included in the Policy is to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate for modem methods from 7
percent to 28 percent by the year 2002. This will be achieved through an increase in the delivery points of
contraceptives and an extensive information, education and communication (IEC) campaign to further stimulate
demand. The Policy also includes strategies related to safe motherhood, prevention of STDslAIDS, education,
gender, development, and employment2.
Unmet demand was defined as: pregnant women whose pregnancy was mis-timed, amenorrheic women whose last
birth was mis-timed, women who are neither pregnant nor amenorrheic and who were not using FP and said they
wanted to wait two or more years for their next birth. Pregnant women whose pregnancy was unwanted,
amenorrheic women whose last child was unwanted, and women who were neither pregnant nor amenorrheic and
who were not using any method of FP and who wanted no more children.
2 A list of the demographic, family planning and health targets as well as the education, gender, employment and
economic targets is given on page 18 of the National Population Policy. The targets are summarized in Annex III
of the Policy.



Page 4
Under the Population Policy, the task of reducing population growth is seen as a shared responsibility of
many actors including government, NGOs, donors, private sector, and local. Family Planning services
are carried out by both public and private institutions, with MOHP being the main provider of services.
Other providers include the Christian Health Association of Malawi (CHAM), the Department of District
and Local Government Administration (DDLGA), the health units run by industrial establishments,
agricultural estates, army/police, and the Agricultural and Marketing Corporation. The largest NGO
provider is BLM and the largest social marketing program is run by Population Services International.
There are serious reservations about whether the ambitious targets of the Population Policy can be
achieved given the prevailing irregular supply of contraceptives, limited mix of services, and other
logistic bottlenecks. Even if contraceptives are always available, the quantity and quality of FP services
discourage their use, especially among adolescents. In addition, the attitudes of both providers and the
community deter the use of FP services by the youth. Services are available only during certain hours on
certain days due to a shortage of staff. The 1995 Population Sector Study indicated that only two-thirds
of the trained staff in family planning are actually providing services. For these and other broader
development-related reasons, it is clear that a comprehensive approach will be required at community and
district level to ensure implementation of the National Population Policy and to be consistent with
recommendations of the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo.
In response to the National Population Policy, very small-scale pilot projects have been implemented to test
out the feasibility of Community-Based Distribution (CBD) of contraceptives in various places in Malawi.
Such projects have increased in number from 5 in 1994 to 25 in 1997, well above the target (20) set in the
National Family Planning strategy, 1994-1997. Although these small scale projects demonstrate that there is
potential for the approach to increase CPR in Malawi, they are not sufficiently comprehensive and
standardized in their approach to be replicated countrywide. Furthermore, the impact of these projects on
the CPR is not known because they have not been systematically evaluated. Therefore, there is a need to test
an integrated national CBD program-, delivered through the public sector, that borrows from these small
scale experiences.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The impact of past and present programs on both demand for and supply of family planning services is an
issue of considerable concern to Government and other stakeholders. Problems of access to family
planning services in Malawi are substantial and well-known. With the exception of a few small projects
using Community-Based Distribution Agents (CBDAs), most FP services are currently provided by static
units. This is a major reason for unmet demand, since almost 70 percent of rural women must travel
more than an hour to reach a health unit, and longer in the rainy season. Moreover, less than half of the
health units currently offer family planning services on a daily basis, and even fewer in areas served
solely by providers whose religious beliefs do not embrace the use of contraceptives.
However, the 1995 Population Sector Study documents that better access to family planning services will
not alone succeed in increasing the contraceptive coverage rate. Several other studies inclicate that, aside
from access, low use of family planning services is due to persistent pronatalist attitudes, and cultural
and/or religious barriers. To reach the defined CPR target, the demand for family planning will also need
to be increased.
The proposed project will test an integrated, comprehensive, community-based approach to increase
contraceptive prevalence rates and subseq[uently reduce fertility in three districts, throughl interrelated and



Page 5
concurrent activities which address both supply-side and demand-side issues. CBDAs will have three
main functions, all at the doorstep of clients: to promote and counsel on family planning; to supply pills,
condoms and spermicides; and to refer to static health/FP for a range of clinical FP methods including
injectables, IUDs, Norplant and sterilization, as follows:
3.1 Demand-side Activities
The project will address demand-side issues in several ways. First, the project will train CBDAs in
counseling (including youth counseling), in interpersonal skills and in bringing services to the doorstep of
the clients. Second, CBDAs will promote population and family planning information and education by
using radio-cassette players and cassettes with pre-recorded family planning messages for listening
groups. Third, the project will develop, pretest and produce IEC messages and materials, and undertake
related activities designed to increase knowledge and change attitude and behavior regarding family
planning. IEC materials will be adapted to specific target groups, including opinion leaders, adolescents,
and men and women in the project districts. Finally, the project will collaborate with other agencies
(Ministries, donors, NGOs, CHAM, etc.) that are supporting demand-stimulating activities.
3.2 Supply-side Activities
Two main activities address supply side issues. First, CBDAs will bring modern family planning
methods to clients in their homes, including both progesterone-only and combined pills, condoms, and
spermicides; they will promote, distribute and monitor these, using bicycles to increase their reach.
Second, CBDAs will refer clients for back-up physical exarminations, clinical FP methods, and STD
treatment to static health/FP facilities whose capacity has been strengthened by the project through
provision of needed equipment, supplies and staff training. Health centers will provide injectables and
IUDs, while the district hospital and FP clinic will additionally provide Norplant and sterilization
services.
C: Project Description Summary
Three pilot districts will implement the project interventions, with three matching control districts where
services will continue as they are at present. The most important selection criteria for the pilot districts
will be: the presence of a committed District Health Management Team (DHMT), low CPR, high
population density, low literacy and readiness to participate in the project. These criteria were chosen to
ensure the best possible conditions for implementation within the DHMT, and a high level of need for FP
services, hence potential for the CBD program to achieve early and substantial change.
The three pilot districts are: Chitipa (Northern Region), Ntchisi (Central Region), and Chiradzulu
(Southern Region). The control districts, which are adjacent to the respective pilot districts, are: Karonga
(Northern Region), Dowa (Central Region), and Mulanje (Southern Region). The six districts have
actively participated in the preparations for the pilot.



Page 6
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                   Category        Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
_    (US$M)              (US$M)   financing
Community Based Distribution -       motor vehicles,           1.7      31         1.5        30
contraceptive distribution by recruited    IEC materials,
CBDAs; supervision by CBDA           materials and
Supervisors, health centers, family  medical products
planning coordinators and DHMT;      and other goods;
provision of incentive package for the    TA and
CBDAs, salaries and motorcycles for  incremental
CBDA Supervisors and motor vehicles    operating costs
for FP coordinators; and wide mix of
contraceptive commodities.
Information, Education and           IEC materials,            0.6      11         0.5        10
Communication (IEC) - support the    training, TA,
development, pre-testing, production  incremental
and dissemination of IEC materials;  operating costs
distribution of materials in local
language on advantages and safety of FP
and dangers of STDs/AIDS;
modification of attitudes towards youth
reproductive needs and IEC training.
Strengthening Back-up support -      equipment,                2.5      45         2.3       46
improve capacity of health professionals  vehicles, medical
to support FP services provided by   products and
CBDAs through clinical training;     other goods;
provide clinical supervision to CBDAs;  training, TA, and
support the FP coordinator and manage   incremental
the contraceptive logistics system   operating costs,
(CDLMIS).
Training - develop standard training  vehicles,,               0.7      13         0.7        14
protocols for service skills, counseling,   materials,
supervision and performance          medical products
assessments for CBDAs and their      and other goods;
supervisors; train service providers and   training, TA, and
their supervisors in counseling,     incremental
commodity distribution and re-supply,    operating costs
dissemination of educational messages
on STD prevention and protection;
provide in-service training for FP
providers; and train FP providers at HCs
and district hospitals to provide full
range of FP methods.
Total       5.5        100         5.0      100



Page 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by thie project:
The project is supporting the introduction of a pilot comprehensive, district-wide community based
distribution program for contraceptives with strong community level involvement in the selection and
supervision of the CBDAs. In addition, it is institutionalizing the role of a non-medical supervisor to
oversee the CBDA. The program introduces distribution of pills as non prescriptive drugs in a country
known for strict prescription rules. By proposing to address - with the help of the Ministry of Women,
Youth and Community Services (MOWYCS) - the reproductive health problems of the youth, the pilot is
taking on a traditional and cultural conservatism among the communities and service providers, and
working with them to find lasting solutions to a serious problem. Luckily the findings of the Systematic
Client Consultation (SCC) carried out in 1994 do confirm that parents and social leaders are amenable to
adoption of program activities that help the youth deal with adolescent sexuality. The setting-up of the
management unit as a separate entity is also innovative in that it de-bureaucratizes the service provision
and provides the leeway for the unit to confer with all the stakeholders in the Population/FP field.
Freedom to freely liaise with agencies such as the NFPC as well as the MOHP's RHU and PHRDU will
also ensure that existing policies and practices are taken into account during the pilot and that there is
complementarity with existing programs.
3. Benefits and target population:
The target audience for this project would be the Ministry of Health and Population, the National Family
Planning Council, NGOs, academic institutions, and other stakeholders. They would benefit from the
project through the basis it would provide for implementing a successful nationwide CBD program. The
ultimate beneficiaries of both the pilot and a subsequent nationwide CBD program would be men and
women in the reproductive age groups and adolescents living in rural and under-served areas of Malawi.
Immediate benefits in the three pilot districts will include spacing of pregnancies with subsequent
improved nutritional status of mothers and children; decreased number of births with subsequent higher
availability of resources per household member; decreased maternal mortality and delivery complication
due to less number of pregnancies; and a decrease in the number of pregnancies and STD incidence
among the unmarried adolescent population. Long-term benefits to the same groups nationwide will be
similar. For Malawi as a whole, the long-term benefits of a successful pilot followed by a successful
nationwide CBD program will include reduced fertility, which will in turn, reduce population growth and
have a positive impact on other sectors such as education and environment. Reduced frequency of child
bearing and rearing will also free women's time for productive use and empower them to be active
members of communities with an overall positive impact on society. Adolescent youth will likewise be
enabled to exploit their full potential in society.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1 Project Management and Implementation Structure: The institutional and implementation
arrangements for the project are summarized in the accompanying organigram, (see Figure 1) and are as
follows:
4.1.1 Policy Guidance: A multi-agency Project Steering Committee (PSC), chaired by the PS MOHP,
will be established to provide guidance in the interpretation of Government population, FP and
reproductive health policies. The PSC's membership will i;nclude senior representatives of relevant
ministries, the NFPC, RHU, PHRDU, DHOs from the project and control districts and NGOs. The PSC
will meet twice a year to review the quarterly project reports and ensure that the project is being
implemented in line with its objectives. The PSC will review and approve the plan of action for the



Page 8
following year. The PHRDU will, in addition to its own routine functions, act as the Secretariat to the
PSC. It will review and distribute quarterly project progress reports prepared by the CBD Management
Unit to the PSC.
4.1.2 Project Management at Central Level: Whereas the P'roject Preparation Team has done a great job
of preparing this pilot project with the support of the PS, Ministry of Health and Population, NFPC,
PHRDU, RHU and DHMTs, Government does not have a pool of experience with commtnity-based
population/family planning projects. However, the establishment of a separate implementing unit for the
pilot would allow the project to tap into existing experience in different agencies. The project will be
managed by a CBD Project Coordinator (CBDPC), located in a separate Unit in the Regional Office,
Lilongwe, who will also technically supervise component (a) (see Figure 1 - Organigram).
The CBD Project Coordinator's responsibilites will include:
a) overall management of project activities at central and district level;
b) preparation and submission of quarterly progress reports, annual workplans and budgets to IDA, the
PSC and the DHMT;
c) supervision of the CBD supervisors;
d) procurement, disbursement of funds, accounting, financial reporting and internal auditing
arrangements carried out by the PIU (see Annex 4); and
e) ensuring that financial reporting and auditing arrangements are submitted to IDA on tiime. The
CBDPC will be supported by four technical specialists responsible for IEC, training, back-up clinical
support and overall monitoring and evaluation. These four specialists will oversee their respective
project activities with the support of the NFPC and the RHU and will be hired on a contractual basis by
the project. They will be located in a separate Unit at the Regional Health Office, Lilongwe, and will
liaise with the relevant Units in the MOHP and NFPC, but will work full time on the project. The
CBDPC's office will have a full complement of project support staff, i.e. secretarial support, drivers and a
general hand. The MOHP will enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the NFPC for the
delivery of activities covered under the NFPC's mandate as highlighted in the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP).
(f) Utilization of the services of the PIU (see Annex 4) during the first six months to: (i) establish and
maintain project accounts; (ii) disburse funds; (iii) keep financial records and document all project
expenditures in accordance with sound accounting practices; (iv) make available project accounts for
internal auditors and project coordinator; (v) prepare and submit budgets and financial records to the
project coordinator, and (vi) carry out procurement.
The PIU will be strengthened by the addition of an Assistant Accountant to be employed by the Project.



Page 9
Figure 1:
Institutional Structure for Main Actors at Central, District and Community Levels
PS
Project Steering Committee (PSC)
Policy Development & Guidance Project
Direction and Oversight
PHRDU
Project Coordlinator        PSC secretariat
(located in M[oHP)
PIU
(Assistant accountant,
located in MoHP)
Accounting,financial
Reporting, Procurement,
Disbursement,Internal Audit
IEC            ra ng            BackUp          M & E
(MOHP)          (MOHP)            Support         (NFPC)
(MICHP)
DHMT
[ HEO  |  |  CBDA   |..
Supervisor |                         t
|.............. C A---- H |District Hospital
Health Centre
Km Community Mobilation



Page 10
4.1.3 Project Implementation at District Level: The project will be implemented at the district level by
the District Health Management Team, which comprises the DHO, District Nursing Officer,
Administrator, Accountant, District Environmental Health Officer (DEHO) and Clinical Officer. Two
CBDA Supervisors hired by the project and the existing district Family Planning Coordinator will be
incorporated into each DHMT for the purposes of project implementation. The DHMT vvill be
responsible for:
a) providing back-up support for referrals on injectables, IUCDs, sterilization, and Norpllant, and STD
case management (see below);
b) distribution of contraceptives to the health units and the CBDAs;
c) provision to CBDAs of contraceptive kits;
d) supervising CBDAs;
e) preparing quarterly progress reports;
f) distributing CBDA incentive packages; and
g) vehicle maintenance.
4.1.4. Logistics Arrangements: The Regional Medical Stores will supply contraceptives to project
districts. Project districts will be given an annual budget to pay handling charges when they collect
contraceptive supplies. Using a vehicle, the FP coordinator will move the contraceptive supplies from the
RMS depots to the pilot districts (see Figure 1).
4.2 Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation systems (see Figure 2) are built into the
project in order to ensure that the objectives of the project are met. They will track inputs, outputs and
outcome indicators (see the LogFrame). Data collected in the field will flow to the district FP
coordinator, who will consolidate and then forward them to the M&E specialist. The M&E specialist
will, with the support of the NFPC and the contraceptive logistics officer in the RHU, be responsible for:
(a) supervising data collection, and analyzing and interpreting data, for input, output and outcome
indicators, (b) consolidating and maintaining all service statistics from the DHMT in a project data bank,
(c) providing regular reports and feedback on progress of project activities, and (d) consolidating existing
data collection instruments and commissioning new service statistics as needed.
Evaluation will be centered on a population-based baseline and repeat evaluation sample survey, which
together will assess the achievement of the pilot CBD program in improving demand for, access to, and
use of modern family planning through comparative analysis of trends in pilot and control districts. At
about the mid-point of the project, an in-depth field study of the CBD program will also be carried out, in
order to assess on-the-ground achievements, issues and problems and identify any system modifications
that need to be made. The M&E specialist will be responsible for supervising these evaluation activities.



Page I 1
Figure 2
The Contraceptive Logistics Management System
RHU          M & E Specialist       Reional Medical Store         l
K        FP coordinator (DHMP)                         D        H
I            b    2  3       c
Health CentexiI
CBDA Supervisor
a
CBDAs
Contraceptive users
flow of information
...............>   flow of supply
Ia certain amount of CBDA supply through supervisor
2 the rest of CBDA supply through Health Center
3supply of Health Center for its own needs 2 & 3 to be packed in separate boxes
a CBDA supervisor compiles information from CBDAs and transmits it to DHMT
bfeed-back of information concerning supply of CBDA by Health Center
c information on own needs of Health Center



Page 12
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a) Consistent with Malawi's recent priorities and the Bank's emphasis on poverty alleviation, the
project will fund a pilot approach to CBD programs in the rural and under-served areas of the country.
The Community-Based Distribution approach was adopted by the government in consultation with
communities, non-governmental organizations, and special interest groups including the donor
community.
b) An expansion of the network of static health/FP facilities was considered as an alternative. However,
this was rejected because it is believed to be less cost-effective than the CBD approach and would
require considerable resources to meet the infrastructure and staffing requirements. Donors are already
providing additional financial support through static units but there is need to augment support to
community-based FP activities.
c) Use of outreach from MOHP and CHAM health units was also rejected as an alternative to a CBD
system. This was again due to the high costs entailed in implementing such a system, including
transportation and subsistence allowance for the staff, as well as the lesser degree of comrnunity
participation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                  Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Health, Nutrition and Population  PHN Sector Credit            S                S
Poverty Reduction             Social Action Fund              HS                S
Education                     Education Sector II              S               S
Primary Education Project        S               S
Secondary Education Project      P               P
Environment                   Environment Management           S                S
Other development agencies
(See tables l & 2 Below)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsaitisfactory), P (Planned)
The 1995 Population Sector Study3 estimated that annual expenditures on population activities in Malawi
were about US$ Il million, of which about 7 percent was contributed by GOM, 6 percent by NGOs and
87 percent by the donors. As indicated in Tables 1 and 2, the largest contributor among the donors was
USAID, followed by DFID, UNFPA, EU, GTZ, UNICEF and IDA. UNFPA was the largest contributor
Source: 1995 Population Sector Study



Page 13
to DDLGA, CHAM and estate and private for profit organizations; DFID was the only contributor to
Banja La Mtsogolo, and IDA was the largest contributor to NFPC.
The highest share of donors' resources (see Table 2) goes to FP services in static units, followed by
STD/AIDS prevention activities, institutional support, IEC activities, contraceptive supplies, training,
social marketing, and CBD. The largest contribution to clinic-based FP services and IEC comes from
UNFPA; to training, supplies, CBD, Social Marketing (SM) and STD/AIDS from USAID; and to
institutional support from DFID.
Table 1: Source of Funding in Population/Family Planning in Malawi
(in percent)
Source of   MOHP    DDLGA   NFPC         NGOs    CHAM    BLM          Estates   Other    TOTAL
funding                                                                         private
GOM          8.8      64.9      25.5                                            11.5      7.4
NGOs                                                 9.8      25.5                        5.9
Donors      91.2      35.1      74.5      100       90.2      74.5    100       88.5     86.7
Total       100       100       100       100       100       100      100      100      100
Source: WB 1995, Population Sector Study.
Table 2: Distribution of Resources by Services
(in US$ '000)
Source    Clinic  I rain-   Contra-   IlJ    CBL/  "Social         S I D/   Institutional  I O I AL
of        based  ing       ceptive             TBA    Marketin  AIDS    support
funding   FP               supplies                     g
UiOM      215    132                   5(:  S                      366      139          902U
NGOs    642                 5                                                             647
Donors   2,129  471        918          1530   201      550        2,259    1,725         9,783
TOTAL   2,986  603          923         1580   201      550        2625     1864          11,332
Row %    26%    5%         8%           14%    2%       5%         23%      16%           100%
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Until the early 1990s, FP in Malawi was only acceptable as child spacing and was integrated into other
services such as maternal and child health. Therefore, the experience with community-based FP
activities in Malawi is relatively recent. Even though the PHN Sector Credit financed the construction of
FP Units, completion and-utilization of the units has been sllow, a reflection of broader sectoral
weaknesses. In view of these weaknesses, MOHP needs to find alternatives for implementation of family
planning interventions, such as use of the NFPC under clearly specified and detailed operating policies
and procedures. Another lesson learned from the past is that audit, procurement, and disbursement
mechanisms have to be in place before the project becomes effective.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The new Government of Malawi has taken several steps that indicate its commitment towards
Population/FP. These steps include: establishment of the NFPC to supervise, coordinate and fill gaps in
family planning services; the approval and adoption of a population policy; participation in the 1995



Page 14
Population Sector Study; requesting of a Population and Human Resources Developmenl (PHRD) Grant
to fund preparation of the project; close collaboration with the consulting firm selected to conduct
preparatory studies; and preparation of a Project Implementation Plan by a Project Preparation Team
(PPT) chaired by the head of the PHRDU and with members from the MOHP, NFPC, and Ministry of
Information, Broadcasting, Posts and Telecommunications.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement in the health sector in Malawi dates back to 1980. Since the beginning of this
involvement, it has played a significant role in the populationlFP sector in Malawi, including contributing to
the development of the Population Policy and family planning services, financing the establishment of the
NFPC, and conducting analytical work such as the 1995 Population Sector Study which highlighted the
need for a CBD system. This work has provided leadership in developing population policy, planning FP
service development and creating local ownership. The Bank; is thus uniquely well placed ito support the
development of a CBD system as the next step in population policy and FP program development.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in theprojectfile, seeAnnex 6)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$    million; ERR=  %Yo []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other (Specify)
The PHRD funded studies carried out a preparatory economic analysis of different FP outreach
approaches, including cost-effectiveness analyses. Their results indicate that investments in CBD
activities are likely to produce substantial fertility reductions. The project will support technical
assistance to design and carry out a full economic analysis of the approach chosen for financing under the
project.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$           million; FRR=        %
Financial gains accruing to men, women and adolescents benefiting by the project will be estimated in a
beneficiary assessment. Data collected during implementation will generate estimates of per capita and
recurrent costs required to implement a CBD program (including the cost to communities and the back-
up support system) on a district and national basis. The data will also be used to estimate how recurrent
costs of the CBD program are offset by cost savings arising from reduced social services expenditure due
to reduced fertility.
3. Technical:
Based on experience elsewhere and in Malawi itself on a small scale, the design of the CBD program to
be piloted by the project is technically sound and can be supported by current technical resources in the
health system. The technical capacity of the MOHP to carry out the proposed project on a national scale
will be evaluated during the project.



Page 15
health system. The technical capacity of the MOHP to carry out the proposed project on a national scale
will be evaluated during the project.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Based on the PHRD funded studies, the proposed institutional arrangements for project implementation
are expected to be sound. These studies identified: the PHRDU as the source of policy guidance and
coordination; the CBD Unit in the NFPC as the best agency to coordinate, manage, monitor and evaluate
the CBD approach; the RHU as the appropriate source of support for back-up services; and the DHMTs
as the critical level for field implementation and support to CBDAs. The proposed project
implementation structure will be a separate entity working closely with the RHU and the NFPC. The
Unit will make full use of the strengths of all agencies involved in the family planning sector and promote
partnership with the districts.
b. Project management:
The use of the already existing MOHP PIU to support the CBD Project Coordinator is justified and cost-
effective as the staff are in place and experienced in IDA procedures. The project will last only three
years and hence needs to be implemented quickly and smoothly; yet a new Implementation Unit would
take a long time to staff and to build similar expertise in procurement, disbursement and accounting.
5. Social:
The project will conduct social assessments at the community level to explore the potential for social
mobilization and development of community level monitoring of the CBDA performance in providing
family planning and other social services.
6. Environmental assessment:     Environmental Category  [fA   JIB   [xl C
This is a category C project. The activities envisaged are expected to contribute to the reduction of
population growth in Malawi, and hence decrease environmental pressures and degradation.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicablel:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Project preparation was preceded by a Beneficiary Assessment (1994) on community attitudes to family
planning. This participatory approach adopted by Government was continued throughout project
preparation. At the project identification stage, in July 1997, a national workshop of all potential
stakeholders was held by the project preparation team in collaboration with the World Bank Mission, at
which the project concept was presented, including scope, olbjectives, rationale, and components. As part
of the PHRD funded studies, a consultative workshop of stakeholders was organized in December 1997.
After the Studies were completed, the PPT followed up with a workshop to disseminate the results and
feed them into the project preparation activities. The active involvement of the DHMTs from the six
districts (3 pilot and 3 control) during project appraisal was also critical to establishing local ownership.
In addition, the project will actively involve beneficiaries in modifying CBD program design and in
Monitoring & Evaluation activities.



Page 16
Table 3. Entities Informed, Consulted/Invited to Participate
Agencies          Identification/     Impleimentation         Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries       CONS, COL            CONS, COL             CONS, COL
NGOs                 IS, CONS, COL        IS, CONS, COL        CONS, COL
Academic institutions  IS, CONS           COL                  COL
Government          IS, CONS, COL        IS, CONS, COL         IS, CONS, COL
Other donors         CONS, COL           CONS, COL             CONS, COL
Note: IS = Information Sharing, CONS = Consultation, COL = Collaboration.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The issue of long-term financial and institutional sustainability of family planning services in Malawi
remains unresolved. The project will finance the pilot phase of what could be expanded to a nationwide
CBD approach and is expected to provide a rationale for continuing budget support from MOHP after the
project. While a CBD program will initially consume resources, its costs are projected to be more than
matched by savings in government expenditure on social services resulting from reduced fertility. More
detailed analysis will be carried out on the data collected during the project.



Page 17
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Ratirg           Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Religious groups support or are neutral to the project Low
and DHMTs are committed to the project
District teams have capacity to provide quality  Medium      Training coordinator at the project Unit will
training                                                     identify trainers and discussions with DHMTs
indicated that they can mobilize trainers from
within the districts.
Logistic bottlenecks continue to hamper the  Medium          FP Coordinator's main function in the DHMT
distribution of contraceptives.                              is to ensure commodity availability from the
regional stores. Logistics officer in the RHU
will support pilot.
Adequate coverage of quality IEC messages by the   Medium    Orientation of media people will be done and
media                                                        message development is a critical early project
activity.
DHMT remains committed and CBD drop-out      Low             DHMT has shown commitment and CBDAs
remains minimal                                              incentive package will prevent high drop out
rates.
Community-Based Distribution Agents (CBDAs)    Low           DHMT will explain the incentive package and
may not be able to fulfill their tasks because the           monitor the response
incentives are not sufficient
Staff in RHU and NFPC to be committed and    High            Staff will need to be motivated and PIU will
MOHP allows the PIU to support the project; NFPC             provide systems support, induct and work with
direct subvention withdrawn, Council funds likely to         the appointed assistant accountant to work on
be inadequate.                                               pilot; MOHP has undertaken to fund the NFPC
NFPC remains viable and continues to work with    Medium     Demand for NFPC services is high, the M&E
RHU and CDLMIS - staff in the units are committed            staff and the CDLMIS officer are very
motivated
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
DHMT mobilizes key people at the district level,    Low      DHMT and communities will be reached as
communities are willing to participate, and                  part of the start-up activities
candidates with minimum qualifications are
identified at the village level
Existing IEC materials for service providers and  Medium     NFPC and the health education unit have been
CBDAs are in usable form                                     preparing some materials
Technically competent people are available to do the Low     Training coordinator will carry out a skill
review in time for the training to start                     search
Community and service providers attitudes are  Low           IEC campaign will address this as a priority
amenable to chaage
Support is forthcoming from the Health Education   Low       IEC specialist will brief the unit and bring it on
Unit;                                                        board
Transport procurement is expedited, equipment,  Low          Documents used by the PIU are already
drugs and commodities are delivered to district              approved by IDA
hospital
Training specialist is in post in time and the M&E is Low    Recruitment and M&E are priority activities
active within each component
Overall Risk Rating Low           Both the President and the Minister of Health
and Population consider the project a priority
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Negotiations
As conditions for Negotiations: establish the project implementation structure, inc]luding the
PSC, the CBD-Project Coordinator's office and the PIU, together with all positions in the
structure (Section C, para 4)
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
As conditions for effectiveness, GOM will:
a) select the CBD Project Coordinator and the Assistant Accountant to be employed on contract at
project start-up, whose qualifications are satisfactory to IDA (para 4.1.2);
b) execute a MOU with NFPC;
c) install a financial management and reporting system satisfactory to IDA.
3. Main Credit Conditions
As conditions in the Development Credit Agreement, GOM will:
a) complete the fieldwork for the project baseline survey in the pilot districts by June 30, 1999; carry out
a mid-point field study of the CBD program by September 30, 2000; and carry out a repeat final
evaluation survey by September 30, 2001; (Section C, para 4.2);
b) recruit and sign contracts with the M&E, training, back-up- support and IEC specialists, 100 CBDAs
and six CBDA Supervisors;
c) carry out the project training program in a timely manner;
d) use the indicators listed in the DCA (Schedule 6) to evaluate the success and impact of the project.
4. Other:
Submit an inventory of the status of existing equipment, supplies and staff training needed to deliver
appropriate clinical family planning methods in existing static facilities in each pilot and control district
to IDA;



Page 1 9
Financial
a)     (i) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project; (ii) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (i) of this Section
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by the Auditor General and acceptable to the Association;
(iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; (iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request;
b)     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals;
c)     GOM will make available on a quarterly basis, the Government's counterpart funding;
Other
d)     Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis in accordance with indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
e)     Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association,
on or about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying
out of the Project including an in-depth field study of the CBD program, during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommende(d to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
f)     Review with the Association, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall
request, the report referred to in subparagraph (e) of this para,graph, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the
matter;
g)     The Borrower shall by: (a) June 30, 1999, complete the fieldwork baseline survey in the Project
and Control Districts; and (b) September 30, 2001, carry out a final evaluation survey in the same
Districts.



Page 20
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[ x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Staff, training program, computerized financial management system and survey of existing equipment in
health facilities.
The Project Implementation Plan has been completed. Job clescriptions for the project implementation
structure have been prepared. Counterpart funding for the first year of the project has been included in
the budget for Government's 1998/99 fiscal year. Standard bidding documents for the health/FP sector
already exist and are in use. The Project Implementation Unit to be used by the project already exists
and is functioning, and can begin work on the project as soon as needed.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recomimended for approval:
Task Team Leader:                       Norbert Mugwagwa
Sector Manager:                         Rt        Pia
Country Director:                       Barbara Kafca



Page 21
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Malawi: Population and Family Planning Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance           Means of       Important Assumptions
Indicators                Verification
CAS Objective:              Decrease in the total     National       Sustained government
An empowered rural         fertility rate from 6.7 to 5.4  Statistics  commitment
population contributing to the  by 2002
reduction of population                                              Macro economic stability
growth
Program Development                                                  (From Program
Objective:                                                           Development Objective to
Goal)
Increase the use of modem   Increase in contraceptive  Survey and    Religious groups support or
contraceptives nationwide   prevalence rates from 7 to   progress    are neutral to the program .
28 percent                reports
Population do not perceive
the program as antagonistic
_____________________________ ___________________________            with their beliefs
CBD approach of interrelated   CBDAs achieve average  Survey and     Population is sensitized and
elements of demand and      client lists of 200.      progress       receptive to the program
supply-sides of Population/FP                         reports
successfully tested in 3                                             GOM  and communities
districts                                                           interested in investing
resources nationwide for
FP
District Health
Management Teams are
.______________ _    _committed to   the project
Outputs:                    Key Performance           Means of       Important Assumptions
Indicators                Verification    (from outputs to DO)
All static health/FP facilities   All gaps in equipment,  Focus group    Religious groups support or
in the 3 pilot districts are able  supplies and staff training   reports,  are neutral to the project
to deliver an appropriate   needed for appropriate    Initial and
range of clinical FP methods   range of clinical FP   repeat final   District Health
methods have been filled by  survey of   Management Teams are
the end of the project    facilities in    committed to the project
pilot districts



Page 22
IEC messages reach targeted   Radio campaign established  Pre- and post-  District teams have capacity
segments of men and women   and operational by the end  survey     to provide quality training
of first year
Logistic system works
100 radios distributed to
CBDAs to form targeted
listening groups
Adequate coverage of
All planned educational                 quality ][EC messages by the
materials produced and                  media
distributed to targeted
communities by third year
Improved access to FP      At least 50 percent of target  Survey   DHMT remains committed
services to rural and      population with access to               and CBDAs drop-out is
underserved groups in project  FP services                         minimal
areas
NFPC and RHU capacity      Timely submission of     Monthly        Staff in the two units are
strengthened and PIU support  monitoring and complete    monitoring  committed and MOHP
provided                   financial reports        reports        allows tlhe PIU to support
Annual        the Pilot;
financial and   NFPC has adequate funds
management   from MOHP and other
audits        sources
M& E system established and  A Monitoring & Evaluation  Baseline and   NFPC remains viable and
operational                FP- System established and  final       continues to work closely
operational by the third  evaluation    with the RHU CDLMIS
month of the project     studies
including
.___ ____ ____ ____ ____   _____ __  above  surveys



Page 23
Inputs:
(budget
Project Components/Sub-components:       for each                       (Components to
(see Annex 2 for project description)    component)                     Outputs)
1: Community-Based Distribution (CBD) of  1. US$ 1.7    *  Quarterly    *  DHMT mobilizes
Contraceptives:                          million          Progress and      key people at the
monitoring       district level,
*  contraceptive distribution by recruited                Reports.          communities are
CBDAs;                                                                  willing to participate,
*  supervision by CBDA Supervisors,                    *  Disbursement      and candidates with
health centers, family planning                        reports.         minimum
coordinators and DHMT;                                                  qualifications are
*  provision of incentive package for the                                  identified at the
CBDAs, salaries and motorcycles for                                     village level.
CBDA Supervisors and motor vehicles
for FP coordinators; and
*  provision of wide contraceptive method
mix.
2. Information, Education and
Communication (IEC):                     2. US$ 0.6                     *  Existing IEC
million                            materials for service
*  support the development, pre-testing,                                    providers and
production and dissemination of IEC                                     CBDAs are in usable
materials;                                                              form;
*  distribution of materials in local                                   *  Technically
language on advantages and safety of FP                                 competent people are
and dangers of STDs/AIDS;                                               available to do the
*  modification of attitudes towards youth                                  review in time for the
reproductive needs and IEC training; and                                training to start;
*  produce a strategy to strengthen IEC                                 *  Community and
capacity.                                                               service providers
attitudes are
amenable to change;
Support is
forthcoming from the
Health Education
Unit.
3. Strengthening of the Back-up Support  3. US$ 2.5                     *  RHU support the
System                                  million                             project and health
units staff are willing
*  improve capacity of health professionals                                to do more FP work;
to support FP services provided by                                   *  Transport
CBDAs through clinical training and                                     procurement is



Page 24
provision of FP and STD equipment,                                       expedited;
drugs and supplies;                                                   *  equipment, drugs and
*  provide clinical supervision to CBDAs;                                    commodities are
*  support the FP coordinator and manage                                     clelivered to district
the contraceptive logistics management                                   hospital.
information system (CDLMIS).
4. Training                              4. US$ 0.7                      *  Training specialist is
million                            in post in time;
*  develop standard training protocols for                               *  M&E is active within
service skills, counseling, supervision                                  each component.
and performance assessments for
CBDAs and their supervisors;
*  train service providers and their
supervisors in counseling, commodity
distribution and re-supply, dissemination
of educational messages on STD
prevention and protection;
*  provide in-service training for FP
providers; and train FP providers at HCs
and district hospitals to provide FP
services and STD case management.
Monitoring and evaluation is built into each
of the above component.



Page 25
PX... .... ............................................ .......  .. ....:............................... .........................................
t
C-N
V 8
............................ .............................    .......................................................................
V C
g ].... ... ... ..............................................   ............................ ....................   ......... ............................ ........-...............
"a                                                                                           -
I 1 C                                                                                                                                            Eu11XX11%   X0t1  
a -              -- ----X-                                              _                                               U-    $||g     
48 .1 I   t~ .                                                                       iX ;'j
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ z.
AIVt !!iiJxiiiIIIiII
0~~~~~~~~~~.
9'                                                                                                   to~*     



w C
I' i
1]1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1|  E-V
4I
rnr~
- 0-
gz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           Joe
c                                                       IM~~~~~~~~~    
C--
CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
c                                               C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.
>
g
>0
C,-a
Orl
9Z aBBd~~~~~~~~



-.~~~~~ eo _.   ,,   _,,    N .. .4                                         . 
a  -   -                                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Da C
m  m                                                                        ;
2 ~ ~    ~    ~     -      0              )   ZCO    '2            f            2222|fiO
*.  *00  - S                                               i a_
St  AgX   a r-  S                       S 2, q  I                         
tg! iK i t ll                                                  I                  1 
1  I   I  a        I                                   2 I or
K    I I                         |              |                 |            I   -oa
_'o                                                                      . .
co  a
9 c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
..     . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .
-U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Jo
ar
Lz GBBi~~~~~~~



IEC, EVALUATION and TRAINING
99                        00                         01
ID   Task Namfe                    Duration     Start        Finish    Qtr 4  Qtr I  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr 2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4  Qtr 1  Qtr2  Qtr3  Qtr4
23       visits undertaken              65d        8/1/00      10/30/00
24       Report on visits and less      87d       10/2/00       1/30/01
26      Integration of lessons Int     260d        2/1/01       1/30/02
26   Training                          664d        2/1119       8/2/01
27       TOT Year 1                     66d       2V1/99         5/3/9
28       TOT Year 3                     65d        5/4/01        /2/01       .
29       Training of Nurses             65d        2/1/99       4/30/99
30       Training of Nurses             65d        1/1/01       3/30/01
31       Tralning of HSA Ye             65d        5/4/99       8/2199
32       Tralning of HSAs Ye            65d       2112/01      5/11/01
33       Training CBDAs an              66d        2/1/99       5/3/99
34       TralningCBDAsan                65d        9/1/00      11/30/00
CD
36       Training of non-serv           62d        5/3/99      7/27/99                                                                                              co
ss       Training of religous          i62d        5//9        7/27/99
37       Train drama groups             62d        5/3/99       7/27/
38       Train drmna groups                        5/3/5O01    7/30/011        _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _    
Task              |       _         Summary                  _Rolled Up Progress
Prjete:             9//8Progress                                       Rolled Up Task 
milestone        *Rolled Up Milestone 



BACK-UP SUPPORT
_  1        99                          00                          01
ID    Task Name                      Duration        Start         Finish       Q4    Ql I Q2  I Q3  I Q4    Qi  I Q2    Q3      Q4 Q                Q2    Q3    Q4    Q1
I    Supervision                          847d         11/2/98        1/29/02 -
2        Develop guidelines                64d         11/2/98        1/28199
3        Conduct supervision              783d         1/29/99        1/29/02
4    Transport/Logistics                  849d         11/2198        1/31/02 ;|
5        Develop dbtrict beel transport    66d         l//9S          V2/99
6        Ensure distribution of contraa   783d          2/2/99        1/31/02
7    Procurement plan to deliver transpa   66d         11/2/98         2/1/99
8    Referral                             S49d         11/V98         1/31/02                                                                                           I
9        Conduct the review                66d         11/2/98         V1/99
10       Implemrent recommendations       783d          2/V99         1/31/02
11       District visits to all referral unit  109d     2/2V99         7/299
12   MIS                                  196d         11/2/98         S12199     _
13        Prepare TORs                     66d         11/2/98        V2/99
14       Recrult local consuitant          66d          2/2/99         5/4/99
15        Develop guidelnes and Instruc   130d          2/2/99         8/2V99
16   Establish TORs for policy and p       66d         11/2/98        V2/99
17   Steering Conrnittee                  783d          2/1/99        1/30/02                                   I .                         . 
18        Review and specify procedure     66d          V1/99          5/3/99
19        Establish coordination mechar    66d         V2/99           5/3199
20        Establish Monitorng and EvalL    65d         4/30/99        7/29/99
21        Conduct quartery meeting        654d         7/30/99        1/30/02
Task                                   Summary                 __Rolled Up Progress _
Date: 9/1/98                         Progress              _        _        Rollbd Up Task      |
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 0



BACK-UP SUPPORT
199                              00                         01
ID    Task Name                     Duration       Start         Finish      Q4    Qi    Q2    Q3    Q4    Qi    Q2  IQ3    Q4    Ql   Q2    Q3               Q4    Ql
22       Conduct annual Planning         523d          7/1/99        7/2/01
23   Develop guidelines for financing    195d         11/t2/92      7/30/99
Task                                  Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project:                            Prog_ssRolledUp_Tas
Date: 9/11/98PogesRldUpTs
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone<2



0-u
-a        a i X E E E _ __ E __- a _ _ _  a O __ 
]1~~                1  1             E
I                       C
1-4  - --
[eaBed



TRAINING
____.  ______ __                                             __                                                        Jul   Au    Se    Oc    NoIe
ID   Task Narne                   Duration      Start         Finish     Nov L Dect Jan   Feb   r        Ar   Ma    Jun |Jan
23       Refresher courses for se       90d        11/1/01        3/6/02
24       Refreshers for CBDA su         90d         13/00         5/5/00 
25       Refreshers for CBDA su         90d         1/2/01        5/7101
26   Development of adolescent y       1 8d         899           417/00 
27   Training o service providers      180d         3/1/01       11/7/01
Task               _ |         _      Summar                                 Rollhd Up Progress
ProJect:                            Progress                               Rolled Up Task _
Milestone         *RolledUp Mibstore



Page 33
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Malawi: Population and Family Planning Project
The project will test the feasibility of introducing an integrated, Government-based,
comprehensive CBD approach and will estimate its impact on contraceptive prevalence
rates in the three pilot districts of Chitipa (Northern Region), Ntchisi (Central Region)
and Chiradzulu (Southern Region). There will be three control districts - Karonga
(Northern Region), Dowa (Central region) and Mulanje (Southern Region) - against
which the project impact will be compared. These control districts are adjacent to the
pilot districts.
The project will have the following four components:
Project Component 1 - US$1.7 million (total cost of component)
Community-Based Distribution of Contraceptives: (IDA US$1.5 million
and Government of Malawi US$0.2 million).
The project will fund the installation and operation of a comprehensive district-wide
Community Based Distribution (CBD) program. The program will be implemented by
100 part time and voluntary Community Based Distribution Agents (CBDAs) who will:
be community-based and selected; have a minimum of eight years primary education; be
trained for two weeks; work for two days a week; be provided with an incentive package
that includes a bicycle, uniform4, etc. and a kit of pills, condoms, spertnicides, a
screening checklist of contra-indications, record book to maintain data on supplies and
clients, and IEC materials on FP. The project financed incentive package is aimed at
reducing drop-out rates of the CBDAs. In order to ensure close supervision of the
CBDAs, the project will finance two salaried full-time CBDA Supervisors in each
district, who will be based at the district hospital and provided with a motorcycle. The
criteria for selection of the CBDA Supervisors are consistent with the training of the
health surveillance assistants (HSAs), i.e. basic training in basic health related activities
such as hygiene, immunization, clean water and sanitation, etc. CBDA Supervisors will
receive the same training as CBDAs plus one extra week in supervision, data compilation-
and reporting. Health Centers/units/clinics (HC) will provide referral and other back-up
support to the CBDAs. The HC will in turn be supported and supervised by the district
FP Coordinator, who will be provided with a vehicle and will also provide clinical
supervision to the CBDAs and injectables to referred CBDA clients during supervisory
visits. CBDAs will also refer clients directly to the district hospital for services not
available at the health centers, such as Norplant and sterilization. Both the CBDA
supervisors and the FP Coordinator will become members of the DHMT.
4 The full list of the CBDA incentives includes: bicycle, satchel, boots, gumboots, uniform, soap, shoe
polish, raincoat, umbrella, lunch allowance and bicycle maintenance allowance.



Page 34
Project Component 2 - US$0.6 million (total cost of component)
Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) - (IDA US $0.5 million
and Government of Malawi US $0.1 million)
The project will finance IEC through four main activities. First, it will support the
development, pre-testing, production and dissemination of appropriate materials targeted
at specific groups in each of the pilot districts, based on the 1996 KAP studies and the
MOHP/Pathfinder 1998 Report. Second, the project will provide CBDAs with IEC
materials that are clear, written in local languages and effective in informing people about
the advantages and safety of family planning as well as dangers of STDs/AIDS. Third, it
will support youth-related activities, i.e. youth counseling, service provider training to
ensure youth-friendliness, and IEC to modify community attitudes. Fourth, it will support
targeted IEC training for both service providers and non-service providers. IEC activities,
messages and materials will be consistent with the national IEC strategy.
Project Component 3 - US$2.4 million (total cost of component)
Strengthening of the Back-up Support System - (IDA US$2.2 million
and Govemment of Malawi US$0.2 million)
The project will provide funding to improve the capacity of the static units to provide
back-up FP services in two ways. First, health staff will be trained to provide physical
examinations and other support for CBDA clients and clinical FP methods for clients
referred by CBDAs. Second, the project will support the district FP Coordinator, who
provides clinical supervision to the health units and will also provide clinical supervision
to CBDAs. The FP Coordinator is based at the dlistrict hospital, provides FP services at
the district hospital FP clinic, and will become a member of the DHMT. In addition, the
project will strengthen the Contraceptive Distribution Logistics Management
Information System (CDLMIS) by expanding C]DLMIS training to FP staff and
simplifying the service statistics to "New" and "'Continuing Users." This would provide
the FP Coordinator with the information needed to evaluate workloads and the impact of
training and IEC programs, and to capture critical trends in new acceptors.
Project Component 4- US$0.8 million (total cost of component)
Training - total cost of the component is US$ million (IDA US$0.7 million and
Governent of Malawi US$0.1 million)
In support of training activities the project will fund:
i) the development of standard CBD protocols that will form the basis for project training
activities and be used for supervision and performance assessment;
ii) the training of CBDAs and their supervisors in counseling, promotion of family
planning, distribution and re-supply of contraceptives, referral for FP services and STD
treatment, and dissemination of basic information and educational messages on STD
prevention and protection;
iii) the provision of in-service training of FP service providers and CBDA supervisors in
CBD supervision; and



Page 35
iv) the training of FP service providers at health units and district hospitals to provide the
full range of FP methods appropriate to the type of facility.
The project will be implemented over a three year period (1998-2001). A baseline
survey will be carried out at the beginning of the project and a repeater survey at the end
of the project, which will enable Government and IDA to evaluate the success of the
pilot intervention and identify any needed modifications. Lessons learned will be the
building blocks for mainstreaming the CBD approach through a sector-wide investment
program.



Page 36
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Malawi: Population and Family Planning Project
Project Component                                          Local           Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Component 1: CBD of Contraceptives and MIS (30.9%)             0.8             0.6           1.4
Component 2: IEC (10.9%)                                       0.5             0.0           0.5
Component 3: Strengthening Back-up Support (43.6%)             1.9             0.2           2.1
Component 4: Training (14.6%)                                  0.6             0.0           0.6
Total                                                          3.8             0.8           4.6
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies (5%)                                 0.2             0.0           0.2
Price Contingencies (15%)                                   0.6             0.1           0.7
Total Project Cost                                             4.6             0.9           5.5



Page 37
Annex 4
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Malawi: Population and F'amily Planning Project
Procurement
Procurement will be carried out by the PIU established in the MOHP for the PHN
project. This project closes end-June, 1999, after which time the work would be done by
the CBD Unit of the LIL. However, if the need arises, the project would contract any
skills it needs. Use of an existing implementation unit with experienced staff is
essential and cost-effective since the project is a small LIL operation requiring to be
completed within three years, and hence cannot afford to establish a new set of staff
needing to be trained from scratch.
The project would procure goods and services in accordance with the "Guidelines,
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997. Consultants providing
services to the project, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997. A detailed
procurement plan for the three years of the project, which will be subject to annual
review, has been prepared and included in the P'IP. The Procurement Officer in the PIU
will monitor procurement plans during the first six months of the project. For each
succeeding year, the procurement plan will be updated and will be available for review
by IDA's implementation review missions.
Equipment and Goods. The project will finance the purchase of equipment and goods,
consisting of medical, office and IEC equipmenit, drugs, eight vehicles, eight
motorcycles, and 1 0 bicycles. Vehicles and motorcycles will be purchased through
ICB, to a total value of US$ 0.3 million. Drugs and most equipment, including IEC
equipment worth US$ 0.4 million, will be procured through NCB, under contracts with a
value in the range of US$ 30,000 - 99,999, up to an aggregate of US$ 2.1 million. Most
of the NCB contracts are not expected to be attractive to international bidders. Purchases
of less than US$ 30,000 will be made through National Shopping procedures for those
items available in Malawi, and International Shopping procedures for those items which
cannot be obtained in Malawi at competitive prices, up to an aggregate amount of US$
0.7 million.
Consultant Services. The project will finance consultant services to a total amount of
US$ 1.5 million equivalent, including contracts for Baseline and Evaluation surveys,
M&E activities, the development of the Youth Program and technical specialists to
manage implementation of the project components, as well as technical assistance to the
project training programs. It is expected that the contracts for the surveys and Youth
Program Development will require international[ consultant services, while the remainder
will be mostly local. Contracts with firms for assignments of US$ 50,000 and above will
be awarded through the Quality and Cost-Based (QCB) method of selection, except for
the baseline survey contract which will be awar(ded through single-source selection. The
baseline survey contract will be single source because: (a) it is complicated, (b) it should



Page 38
adhere to the standard internationally acceptable demographic health surveys (DHS)
format applied in Malawi over the years for comparison purposes, and (c) it needs to be
completed and analyzed within a very tight timetable. The use of an experienced firm
that has been carrying out these surveys in-country over the years is therefore
recommended. Contracts with firms below US$ 50,000 will be awarded through the
Consultant Qualification (CQ) selection methcd. Extensions to consulting contracts for
firms and individuals not originally subject to prior review will be subject to prior review
when such extensions will raise the contract values above US$ 100,000 of firms and US$
50,000 for individuals. Services of technical consultants and contractual technical
specialists employed to manage project components will be procured under individual
contracts in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 5.1-5.3 of the "Consultant
Guidelines".



Page 39
Annex 4
Table A: Total Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements
Malawi: Population and Family Planning Project
Categories                      Procurement Method                Total
ICB    NCB      Shopping    Others (*)
(National and
Internat'l)
1. Equipment, Goods, vehicles,   0.3      1.7       0.2          0.0         2.2
materials, IEC materials and
medical products
2. Training and IEC Activities    0.0     0.4       0.2           0.0        0.6
3. Consultant Services            0.0     0.0       0.0           1.5        1.5
4. Incremental Operating Costs    0.0     0.0       0.3           0.0        0.3
5. Contingencies                   -       -         -             -         0.9
TOTAL                             0.3     2.1       0.7           1.5        5.5
(*) This Category pertains to Consultants Services (see Table A in Annex 3).
Note:   ICB = International competitive bidding.
NCB = National competitive bidding.
Prior Review. All contracts for goods under ICB, and those for the first two packages to be
procured through NCB, will be submitted to IDA for prioir review. Existing standard bidding
documents for NCB will be used. Extensions to NCB contracts for equipment and goods raising
the contract value to US$ 100,000 or above will be subject to prior review. Contracts for
consultant services of US$ 100,000 or more for firms and US$ 50,000 or more for individuals will
be subject to prior review by IDA. All NCB and consultant contracts with a value below the
thresholds established for prior review will be subject to ex-post review by IDA on a sample basis.
All contract documentation will be retained by the PIU and made available to IDA for ex-post
review upon request. Reimbursement for goods procured through National Shopping will be made
against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Receipts and other supporting documents for SOEs
will be maintained on file in the PIU and made available to IDA for review during supervision
missions.



Page 40
Annex 4
Table B: Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (IJS$)
Malawi: Population and Family Planning Project
Expenditure Category        Contract             Procurement          Contracts
Value                Method               Subject
(Threshold)                               to Prior
Review
Equipment, Goods,           US$ 100,000          ICB                  Alll
vehicles, materials,        and above
IEC materials and
medical products            US$ 30,000 -         NCB                  First two
99,999                                    packages
Below US$           National
30,000               Shopping            None
Consultant                  US$ 100,000          QCB                  All
Services                    and above for        Single Source
firms and           (for baseline
US$ 50,000          survey)
and above for
individuals
Below US$                                None
50,000 for          CQ
firms
Below US$            CQ
50,000 for
individuals
N.B All Terms of reference will be subject to prior review.
Disbursement
The project will be implemented over a three year period and will close on June 30, 2002.
An IDA credit of US$ 5 million will finance 90 percent of the total project costs. GOME will
finance the remaining 10 percent, in the form of contributions to the local costs of goods, training
and IEC activities, the Youth Program Development, surveys, and incremental operating
expenditures. Government will also contribute further toward the project through the time devoted
to the project by public service staff, who will provide back-up support and expertise.



Page 41
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for: (i)
expenditures under contracts with a value of less than US$ 100,000 each for equipment, goods and
consultant services provided by firms; (ii) expenditures under contracts with a value of less than
US$ 50,000 for individual consultants; (iii) expenditures under National Shopping procedures; (iv)
expenditures on training and IEC activities; and (v) incremental operating costs. These may all be
claimed on the basis of Certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting
expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained at the PIU and made available for review by
IDA on request. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition).
Special Account
To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures, the Government of Malawi will open a Special
Account (SA) in a commercial bank to cover local and foreign currencies of IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$ 400,000, covering an
estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Upon credit effectiveness or as
needed, an amount of US$ 200,000 will be deposited in tlhe SA. Subsequent deposits may be
requested as needed, not exceeding the total authorized amount of US$ 400,000. Replenishment
applications should be submitted at monthly intervals, after monthly bank statements are received
and reconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local and foreign expenditures as
required. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of eligible expenditures will be paid through
the SA, except where direct payment is the preferred option.



Page 42
Annex 4
Table C: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Malawi: Population and F'amily Planning Project
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$ million         Financiing Percentage
1. Equipment, Goods, vehicles,              2.0            100% of foreign expenditures 90%
materials, IEC materials and medical                       of local expenditures
products
2. Training and IEC Activities              0.5            100% of foreign expenditures 80%
of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services                      1.4            100% of foreign expenditures 95%
of local expenditures
4. Incremental Operating Costs              0.2            85% of local expenditures
5. Unallocated                              0.9
Total (incl. contingencies at 20%)          5.0
Incremental Operating Costs include: salaries of the project management team and CBD
supervisors; CBDA program operating costs; maintenance of motor vehicles, motor cycles,
bicycles and other equipment; travel costs, including fuel; office consumables; and other
miscellaneous; but excluding salaries of GOM civil service officials.
Institutional and Implementing Arrangements
Project Management (see Section C, para; 4.1.1 - 1.3). The project will be managed by a separate
Unit headed by a Project Coordinator (PC) who is accountable to a Project Steering Committee
(PSC) chaired by the PS. The broad based PSC will allow the Unit to benefit from the
experiences of different agencies active in Population/FP. The PC will be supported by four
specialists in training, IEC, back-up support and M&E. At the district level where the actual
implementation takes place, the DHMT will provide the necessary management, with routine
support form the FP Coordinator and the CBDA Supervisor. The project will use the services of
the existing MOHP PIU for disbursement of funds, accounting, financial reporting and auditing
arrangements as well as for procurement. This unit is curTently responsible for the
implementation of the on-going IDA-financed Population Health and Nutrition (PHN) project
which has a closing date of June 30, 1999.
The PIU will make disbursements from the Special Account; establish and maintain project
accounts; keep financial records and document all expenditures in accordance with sound
accounting practices; identify independent external auditors to audit the proLect annually; submit
the audited accounts, auditor's report and a separate opiniion with respect to statements of
expenditures to IDA; and prepare and submit replenishment requests and withdrawal applications
to IDA.



Page 43
The use of the existing MOHP PIU up to the closing date of the PHN project, is necessary and
cost-effective because staff are already in place and have gained experience over the years in IDA
procedures. The overlapping period would allow the CBD Unit to be inducted and to acquire the
necessary skills to manage the project which is a small operation (LIL) needing to be completed
within three years. A new Project Implementing Unit would take a long time to establish and to
gain the required expertise in disbursements, procurement and accounting.
In the light of MOHP PIU's responsibility during the overlapping six months period to provide
strong financial management for both the present project (PHN) and the new project and in order
to ensure that financial systems are functioning, additional capacity in accounting, financial
reporting and internal auditing arrangements will be added to the unit. This will include the
upgrading of the current manual financial accounting system to a computerizedfinancial reporting
system and the training on the use of this system for project staffto enable the MOHP PIU provide
reliable and timely management information to the two projects. In addition, an Assistant
Accountant with requisite skills, whose selection is a condition of effectiveness (Section G, l.a),
will be recruited on contract and financed by the project.
Accounting, Financial Reporting andAuditing Arrangements: The strengthened MOHP PIU will
be responsible for maintaining accounting records for all project-related expenditures following
generally accepted accounting principles. By end of June 1999, it is expected that the-Assistant
Accountant should be sufficiently inducted into the use of the accounting system to, as soon as
possible, but not later than six months following the end of the GOM fiscal year, ensure that audit
reports are submitted to IDA. In previous IDA-financed projects, accounts have been audited by
the Auditor-General; as this arrangement has proved satisfactory, it will also be followed under
this project.
In auditing project accounts, the auditors will follow international auditing standards. The
auditors will be required to report separately on the project financial statements, special account
and on the statements of expenditure. Auditors will pay special attention to verifying the
reliability of the statements of expenditure and to internal controls and procedures used in the
preparation of statements of expenditure.



Page 44
Annex 5
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Malawi: Population and Family Planning Project
Planned
(At Final PCD Stage)         Actual
A. Project Budget                                                        US$80,000
B. Project Schedule:
Time taken to prepare the project           Six Months                   Seven Months
First Bank mission (identification)        July/1997                     July /1997
Appraisal/Negotiations mission departure    March/1998                   April/I 998
Negotiations                                May/1998                     July/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness               Sept/1998                    Sept/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Health and Population assisted by tlhe NFPC and the Department of Information.
Preparation assistance: Pathfinder International, PHRD Grant.
Government Officials, Bank staff, and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                         Specialty
Government Officials  Christian Moyo               Director, PHRDU, MOHP
Ann Phoya                    National Safe Motherhood Coordinator, MOHP
Jane Namasasu                Assistant, Controller of Preventive Health Services, MOHP
Wilson Pamkuku               Director of Research, Evaluation, Department of Information
Robert Ngaiyaye              Deputy Director for IEC, NFPC
Roseby Namagowa              IEC Officer, NFPC
Violet Kamfose               Family Health Officer, Regional Health Office(s)
Bank Staff           Norbert Mugwagwa              Cluster Team Leader
Venanzio Vella               Public Health Specialist
Solomon Ayalew               Senior Public Health Specialist
John May                     Population and Development Coordinator
Althea Hill                  Senior Population Specialist
P.C. Mohan                   Communications Specialist
Brighton Musungwa            Financial Management Specialist
Marguerite Salah             Operations Officer
Elizabeth Adu                Principal Counsel
Francesco Sarno              Procurement Specialist
Consultants           Pathfinder, Nairobi          Population Policy and Programs
Wina Sangala                 Project Preparation Administrator
Monica Sibindi               CBD Program
Guido Houben (CILC)          Monitoring and Evaluation



Page 45
Annex 6
Documents in the Project File*
Malawi: Population and F;amily Planning Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
*  Plan of Action Schedules
*  Job Descriptions
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Mission Aide-Memoires of October 1997
*  Project Activities Cost Schedules
*  The CBD Model Program
*  Outline of the Youth Program
IEC Training, Activities and Equipment
  Strengthening Back-up Support System
*  Monitoring and Evaluation
C. Other
* Population Policy, Government of Malawi, 1994.
*  The 1995 Population Sector Study.
*  Population and Family Planning in Malawi. A Community Nexus Approach. December 1997.
*  Population and Family Planning
Project Concept Document (Pop/FP PCD).
*  MASAF Project Concept Document (PCD).
*  Malawi Population and Health Nutrition (PHN) Project.
*  Pop/FP Workshop Report.
*  Economic and Financial Analyses Handbook.
*  Reproductive Health Services in Malawi. Pathfinder Final Report. June, 1998.
*Including electronic files.



Page 46
Annex 7
Status of Bank Group Operations in Malawi
IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Malawi: Population and Family Planning Project
Project ID       Project Name         FY    IDA          U:ndis-   Diff.     Diff.       Rating   Rating
Original    bursed    between   between
Amount                expt. &    expt. &
actual    actual
disburs.   disburs.
(*)       (*)         IDevel.  Implem.
Orig      Frm         Dbject.  Progr.
Rev'd
1636      LOCAL GOVT.              1992      24.00      1]1.05     5.88       0.00        U         S
1646      PHN SECTOR CREDIT    1991          55.50      26.30     28.62       0.00        S         S
1657     INSTIT.DEV.II             1994      22.60       12.50     9.55       0.00        S         S
1660      AGRIC. SERVICES          1993      45.80      20.03      11.86      0.00        S         S
1664      ENVIRON. MGMT.           1997       12.40      11.65      .67       0.00        S         S
1667     NAT. WATER DEV.           1995      79.20      57.06      11.94      0.00        U         U
1668      SOC. ACTION FUND         1996       56.00     29.31      -4.65      0.00       HS         S
1677      RURAL FINL. SVCS         1993      25.00       7.64      6.95       0.00        S         S
1649      EDUC. SEC. II            1990      36.90       3.91      -.62       0.00        S         S
1658      FISHERIES DEV.           1991       8.80       3.66      3.09       0.00        S         S
1655      FINAN. & ENTERPR.        1991      32.00       .85       1.45      -1.65        S         S
1662      POWER V                  1992      55.00      33.68      34.69      0.00        U         U
34489     MAL. RAIL. REST.          1995      16.16      14.23     14.72       -.05        S         S
1648     FISC. REST. & DERE        1996      102.00      1.49      .83        3.99        S         S
1648     FISC. REST. & DERE        1998       2.40      :2.30      .83        3.99        S         S
42305     PRIM. EDUC. EM            1996      22.50      11.63      7.54       0.00        S         S
(*) Intended disbursement to date minus actual disbursement to date as projected at appraisal.
Note on Rating Title:            Note on Rating Value:
Org - Original                   S - Satisfactory
Rev - Revised                    U - Unsatisfactory
LIC - Loan/Credit                HS - Highly satisfactory
Undis - Undisbursed
Tot - total
Disb - Disbursed
FY - Fiscal Year
Prj - Project
Dvl - Development
Obj - Objective
Impl - Implementation
Prg - Program
Active Loans              Closed Loans              Total
Total Disbursed IDA       329.28                    1184.67                   1513.95
Been repaid             0.00                       137.96                    137.96
Total held by IDA         596.26                    1013.54                   1609.80
Amount sold              0.00                     0.72                       0.72
Of which repaid           0.00                     0.72                       0.72
Total Undisbursed         247.29                    0.00                      247.29



Page 47
Annex 8
Socio-Economic and Population Indicators
Malawi: Population and Family Planning Project
GNP per capita (US $)***                                                                      170
Annual Population Growth Rate***                                                               2.7
Population Density (per Sq. mile)**                                                           116
Total Fertility Rate***                                                                       6.6
Adolescent Fertility Rate (per 1,000 women age 15-19)***                        151 (i.e., 0.76 child)
Crude Birth Rate**                                                                           41.2
Crude Death Rate**                                                                           38.2
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)***                                              133
Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100,000 live births)***                                          620
Life Expectancy at birth (1995)***                                                             44
Population per doctor (1985-90)*                                                           27,000
Population per nurse (1985-90)*                                                            14,000
Adult Literacy Rate (1990)*                                                                  42%
Female Literacy Rate (1990)*                                                                 31%
Modern Contraceptive Prevalence Rate**                                                        14.4
Unwanted Fertility Rate (1980-1995) (per women age 15-49)***                                   1.0
STD Prevalence Rate**                                                                         6.3
HIV/AIDS Prevalence Rate***                                                                  13.6
Women of childbearing age as percentage of female population*",                              44.2
Sex ratio**                                                                                    97
% of malnutrition (women in fertile age)*                                                     9%
% of pop. below absolute poverty level                                                         85
*       Malawi - Staff Appraisal Report, Social Action Fund Project, 1996.
**      Malawi - Demographic and Health Survey, Knowledge Attitude and Practice, 1996.
***     World Bank Sector Strategy, Health, Nutrition and Population, 1997



Page 48
Attachment 2
Annex9i                                                     Page I of 2
Malawi at a Glanmce
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                       Saharan      Low-      ar
Malawi   Africa  hIcome       Development diamond'
Population mid-1997 (millions)                      10.3     596    3,236
GNP per capita 1997 (Atlas method, USS)             220      497       490                 Life expectancy
GNP 1997 (Atlas method, billions USS)                2.3     296    1,597
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       2.7      2.7      1.7
Labor force (%)                                      2.6      2.6      1.8   IGNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable since 1990)                                                          p
jcapita                      enfollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)            ..       .                 pi                         e
Urban population (% of total population)             13       32        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     43       52        63
Infant mortality (per 1t000 live births)            133       91        68
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           27                 43                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               54        45       76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 43       44        34
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  81      75      107                  Malawi
Male                                               84       82       112   |
Female                                             77       67       102               - - Low-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986     1996      1997   r
GDP (billions US$)                         0.67      1.2      2.3      2.4      Economic ratios
Gross domestic investment/GDP              26.3    12.3      12.2     12.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP          30.4    23.0      22.3     24.7              Openness of economny
Gross domestic savingslGDP                 17.8    10.1       0.8      5.0
Gross national savings/GDP                 14.9      6.3     -1.5      3.0                       T
Current account balancelGDP                  ..   -6.0    -13.6       -9.5
Interest payments/GDP                       1.3      3.1      1.2      1.2   i.
Total debtlGDP                             44.6    98.0      00.0    1049      Savings                     Investment
Total debt servicelexports                  9.1    43.2      23.0     14.8
Present value of debVGDP                      ..      ..    52.8      51.8
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..   274.0    242.0
1976-86  1987-97    1996     1997  1998-02                   Indebtedness
(average annual growth)                                                      I
GDP                                 2.5     3.3      9.8      5.0      4.5               -  Malawi
GNP per capita                     -0.8     0.6      8.9      2.5      2.1                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      3.2      3.7    14.5      12.6      5.8                  L
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986     1996      1997   r--          o-e
(% of GDP)                                                                     Growth rates of output and Irvestment
Agrculture                                 37.0    38.9      33.4     32.0      30
Industry                                   17.5    19.4      15.6     15.9     20
Manufacturing                             11.2    13.3     12.2      12.5     10i
Services                                   40.0    31.9      44.4     48.0     &0
Private consuimption                       68.1    70.1      84.7     75.8   j-20    
General govemment consumption              14.1    19.7      14.5     19.2    |
Imports of goods and services              38.9    25.1      33.6     32.1                _  GD1    -0--GDP
1976-86 1987-97     1996     1997   r
(average annual growth)                 1Growth rates of exports and Imports (N)
Agriculture                                 1.1      3.0     37.1     -1.1      40
Industry                                    1.9      3.2      2.8      5.2   | 30
Manufacturing                              3.0     5.5     -1.4       55      20
Services                                    3.2      3.4     -1.4     17.2      10
Private consumption                         1.4      5.9     22.0     -4.7      o                             -
General govemment consumption               7.0    -1.0    -12.8      416         10
Gross domestic investnment                  -7.1    -3.7      8.9     12.8    20 
Imports of goods and services               -2.9     3.9     37.3      6.9
Gross national product                      2.4      3.5     11.7      5.2           -     Exp            fllpofts
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, tle diamond will
be incomplete.                                                                                                        9/21/98



Page 49
Attachment 2
Annex 9                                                        Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997
Domestic prices(/ change)                                                            Inflation (%)
Consumer prices (end of year)                                      6.7      15.2    1,
Consumer pnces (average)                                14-0      37.7       9.1
ImplicitGDP deflator                          10.0      13.2      43.3       9.7    50
40
Govemment finance                                                                 . 20
(%/ of GDP) 
Current revenue                                         21.8      16.8      16.4             92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                          ..      -2.5      -3.0      -6.3                    GDP def    OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -12.7       -7.6     -12.3
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997   i      
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                     248       481        556    832
Tobacco                                                135       300       340
Tea                                                     38        26        66
Manufactures
Total imports (cif                              ..      257       624       652*
Food2                                                            52         5     27
Fuel and energy                                         32        31        32   139
Capital goods                                                                       0
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                      ..        ..      113        119         91   92   93   94   9s   96   97
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..        ..      138       130                  a Exports     almports
Terms of trade (1987= 100)                      ..        ..       82         92                                        -
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997    7
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  189      271       515       604 1 o
Imports of goods and services                 249       296       778       7860
Resource balance                               -60      -25      -262       -182    -s
Net income                                     -10      -81       -44        -41
Net current transfers                                    44        -8
Current account balance,                                                            -15
before official capital transfers             ..       -71     -315       -232
Financing items (net)                            .       49       424       179
Changes in net reserves                         36       22      -109         53
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)             26       42       222       163
Conversion rate (local/US$)                    0.9       1.9      15.3      16.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997   r            -
(millions US$)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           299     1,158     2,311     2,566
IBRD                                          0        85        42        34
IDA                                          74       422     1,346      1,559              AFG24 00
Totaldebtservice                                18      119       120         91
IBRD                                          0        11        13        11
IDA                                            1        5        18        20
Composition of net resource flo                                                        D: 381fo
Official grants                                .         .       97        83
Official creditors                           29       111       121        76                                    B: 1346
Private creditors                            20       -32        -4        -3
Foreign direct investment                    10                  30        25            C:
Portfolio equity                               0        ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..        ..        ..               A - IRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                12        87       141        87      8- IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        5        17        17      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     12       82       124        70                                               1
Interest payments                              1       11        14        14
Net transfers                                12        72       110        56
7/28/98



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29658
32                                                      34                                                      36'
PILOT AND CONTROL DISTRICTS
, Nge\ z kenige00000 ~-^ PRINCIPAL ROADS
10                                     't- ..KRONGA: 0                                          ;, -<X~RIVERS
MALAWI                                                               w                          0 TOWNS
HEALTH  FACILITIES                                              \         \h   >Clsilumba                    t   DISTRICT CAPITALS
     NATIONAL CAPITAL
BY     DISTRICT                                   VLiingstonict                                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
PILOT AND CONTROL DISTRICTS                                           / RUMPHI  h u                                    - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
< ,atowo       .pMh e  lu
'0  Rumph;    ,-1-           ;0i
0 20 40 60 80 100                                      -                                                    TANZANIA
KILOMETERS                                  NursE' , ,  4
-,;  O,tP--~'/,MZLJZU;  74:     0
-  MZIMBA 3 | NKHATA                         i
Mzimba .      BAY                /
12                                                      /             iuLwelezi -hisumaj/l0                                                                          12
' CheW                           0
-   ~~Nkhotakota                        MOZAMBIQUE
/  .P    KASUN9O  
Mchn1ii            ,                        0   " 
LI \ ULONGWE                      SAUMA1.
14~~~~~ ei                                                      o       zm^         S        \0000
y                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~14'
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~T iN.,   'z
,Dedzao"                          , T
I                                      \QN~~~~~~~~~~~(tc,e
KENYA    ISOMAA                                                           kalaka3     MACHINGA
DEPUBLO1 -T C                                                             MOZAMBIQUE                               0          W              1
MO(               BURURW NDI~/~~
REPUBLIC OF           LR,C                                                                                              ~       McJs.0
CONOGO.Cz
r {   sW   TANZANIA                                                             j        '
ANGOLA             ,s                                                 16                Tuel                             0 MRADACA   tuenz
!  / SOUTH ~~~~~~~~~~~~1'                                                   ;                                                                        160000  10t0  3NO eayen reeta cetneo
MALt%k, -Chk-,3L 9
AMBA    -~~N.                                                                    Iv;ZAOlQ .E.rro-N e                            ,
ZAMI             \.MZMQECHIKWWA                                                                            '
~~',     ,\~~~ (        This map was produced by the
ZIMEARWE                                                 .~~~~~~~~~~~  NGJf~~~~~~BU)~~~~~  Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundories, colors, denominations
'N-..                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~this map do flat imply, 0on the port of
1*                                                                 N    4'           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Bank Group, ony judigment
<                                     ~~~~~~MADAGASCAR                                                     -
Z* BOTSWANA                                                                                                                 san---e-Von the legal status of any territory, or
C.oncany endorsement or acceptance of
:0"  SOUTH,                                                                                                          such boundaries.
AFRIC'A                                                             34'                                                   36'
JULY 1998



