Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-4215-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 7.2 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
January 9, 1986
IeThk dseat hm a micded dlmllbmdm md ma be used by recWets ely in tse perfrnuce of
theiroBdd 11tk& Its csste  imaft o wbe be dhcosed with  Woi  ink authaon.



CURRENCY EQUrVALENTS
Currency Unit  -    Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00        -    UH 80.00
UM 1,000       -    US$12.50
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 Meter (m)          -         3.28 feet
1 Kilogram (kg)                2.20 pounds
1 Metric ton (mt)    -         0.98 long ton
1 Hectare (ha)       =         2.47 acres
1 Kilometer (km)               0.62 mile
THE GOVERL%'MENT OF MAURITANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVI-ATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP        Association Cooperative Pastorale (Pastoral Cooperative
Association)
AfDF       African Development Fund
BIE        Bureau des Intrants pour l'Elevage (Livestock Input
Distribution Unit)
CBPP       Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
CIERV      Centre National d'Elevage et de Recherche Veterinaire
(National Livestock Research Center)
CNRA       National Center for Agricultural Research
CT/MDR     Office of Agricultural Statistics of the Ministry of Rural
Development
DNE        Direction Nationale de l'Elevage (Livestock Department)
ENFVR      Ecole Nationale de Formation et de Vulgarisation Rurale
(National Training and Rural Extension School)
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations
FED        Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
FND        Fonds National de Developpement (National Development Fund)
IER        Institut d'Economie Rurale (Rural Economy Institute)
MDR        Ministere du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural
Development)
OPEC       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PHARMARIM  Societe Mauritanienne de Commercialisation des Produits
Pharmaceutiques (Mauritanian Pharmaceutical Marketing
Company)
SNIM       Societd Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (National Mining
Industry Company)
SOMECOB    Societ, Hauritanienne de Commercialisation du Betail
(Mauritanian Livestock Marketing Company)
SONADER    SociEte Nationale de Developpement Rural (National Rural
Development Agency)
TLU        Tropical Livestock Unit
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Beneficiaries:      Livestock Owners forming Pastoral Cooperative
Associations (PCA); Livestock Department (DNE); and
Municipality of Nouakchott.
Credit Amount:      SDR 7.2 million (US$7.6 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard.
Relending Terms:    Borrower to DNE as a grant.
Project Objectives
and Description:    The proposed project seeks to slow the deterioration of
the grazing areas and to boost productivity by making
groups of pastoralists responsible for allocated
grazing areas, by providing better services and
production inputs, and by increasing the knowledge of
livestock   production   systems   essential   to  the
formulation of a development policy and to the planning
of future interventions. Main project components are:
(a) a pilot component for the establishment of pastoral
cooperative associations; (b) the study of livestock
production  systems,   project  monitoring  and  the
preparation of projects; (c) distribution of production
inputs for sale to livestock owners; (d) strengthening
of livestock services; (e) establishment of a Livestock
Fund and a production improvement fund; and (f)
construction of a small abattoir in Nouakchott.
Benefits and Risks: All project beneficiaries are livestock owners who
*                                 would receive better public livestock services.  Those
livestock owners who form pastoral associations would
benefit from the allocation of grazing rights, thus
gaining an incentive and the possibility to introduce
improved  resource management.   Better  knowledge  of
production systems would facilitate the adoption of a
coherent livestock development policy, and the cost
recovery procedures would lead to a more efficient
livestock  service;  both would  eventually result in
better resource management and higher productivity.
The project entails considerable risks, however. The
diminishing rainfall experienced in recent years could
prove to be part of a secular downward trend, in which
case the livestock subsector would have to be based on
camel and goat production and on producer subsistence,
as opposed to production for market. The pastoral
This document has rsted distribution and may be used by mcipients only in the performance
of their official duties. It contents may not otherwe be diclued without World Bak u thoion.



- ii -
associations   may   not   proliferate   and   resource
management may therefore not be introduced. Livestock
owners, who have considerable political power, may
resist cost recovery, without which livestock services
would remain at their present level of operation.
These risks are judged acceptable, however, given that
failure to intervene in the subsector entails the much
higher risk of further deterioration in the subsector's
potential and a continued decline in the rural standard
of living.
Estimated Project Costs (net of identifiable taxes and duties) a/:
Local          Foreign        Total
US$ million
Pastoral Cooperative Associations        0.2              1.1            1.3
System  Studies and Monitoring           0.5              1.0            1.5
Distribution of Production Inputs        0.2              1.5            1.7
Livestock Services:
Management                            0.3              0.8            1.1
Animal Health                         1.0              1.3            2.3
Animal Production                     0.8              0.8            1.6
Training                              0.3              0.8            1.1
Abattoir Construction                    0.2              0.8            1.0
PPF Advance                                               0.5            0.5
Base Costs                               3.5              8.6           12.1
Physical Contingencies                   0.3              0.9            1.2
Price Contingencies                      1.4              1.8            3.2
Implementation Delay Contingencies  1/ 0.8                0.8            1.6
Total Project Cost                       6.0             12.1           18.1
Proposed Financing Plan
IDA                                      2.3              5.3            7.6
AfDF                                     2.5              3.8            6.3         b
OPEC                                       -              2.0            2.0
Government/Livestock Owners              1.2              1.0            2.2
TOTAL                         6.0              12.1          18.1
a/ Amounts mav not add up to totals due to rounding.
1/  Project costs based on a five-year implementation period with special
contingencies for a two-year delay.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement:
FY87     FY88     FY89     FY90     FY91     FY92      FY93
US$ million
Annual      1.7       1.3      1.4      1.3       1.1      0.6      0.2
Cumulative  1.7       3.0      4.4      5.7      6.8       7.4      7.6
Economic Rate of Return: No rate of return has been calculated.  However,
the economic analysis shows that the incremental production required to
obtain a satisfactory economic rate of return of no less than 10 percent is
well within the bounds of prudent expectations.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5720-MAU.
Map: IBRD 18303
WAPAC
January 9. 1986



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equivalent
of SDR 7.2 million (US$7.6 million) to help finance a Second Livestock
Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms. Additional financing
will be provided by the African Development Fund (AfDF) through a credit of
US$6.3 million equivalent on terms identical to those of IDA and by the
OPEC Fund through a loan of SDR 1.9 million equivalent (US$2.0 million)
repayable over 17 years including 5 years of grace with a service charge of
one percent per year.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Islamic Republic  of Mauritania - Country
Economic Memorandum (5537-MAU)", dated July 10, 1985, has been distributed
to the Executive Directors. Updated country data are given in Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.        Mauritania  bears many  of  the  characteristics  of  the  "Least
Developed Countries" in terms of its physical and human resources, despite
a per capita income of US$450 in 1984, which is somewhat higher than the
ceiling for the lowest income countries. Three-quarters of the country is
desert or semi-desert, the principal economic activities being livestock
herding, mining and fisheries. Crop farming is generally limited to the
sub-Saharan zone in the south, where rainfall is nonetheless sparse and
irregular. Pockets of modern economic activity are found in the mining
complex  of  Zouerate,  the  fishing  center  of  Nouadhibou  and  the
administrative capital of Nouakchott.  These centers are geographically
separated from the agricultural zones, and there is little economic
interaction between them and the rural sector.
4.        The three centers of modern economic activity account for a major
share of the country's overall output, while livestock and crop farming,
which support about two-thirds of the population, account on average for
about 20 percent of total output. The mass of the population (total 1.7
million) suffers from an extremely low standard of living, as reflected in
key social indicators: life expectancy at birth is estimated at 46 years,
infant mortality is 136 per 1,000, only one in every three children of
school-age attends primary school, and about only 18 percent of the
population is literate in either of the two official languages, Arabic and
French.



-2-
Past Economic Performance
5.        Led by increases  in iron ore production,  Mauritania's Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) sustained an average annual growth rate of 8 percent
during the 1960s. The economy experienced a sharp deceleration in growth
in the mid-1970s, however, and a period of marked financial instability in
the latter part of the decade. Principal factors were reduced world demand
for iron ore, on which the country had been dependent for 70-80 percent of
its export earnings, and the effects of severe and repeated drought on
output in the rural sector. These factors were compounded by prolonged
military conflict in the Western Sahara and a poorly conceived investment
policy. The investment program was stepped up in the mid-1970s to rates
approaching 40 percent of GDP with the support of heavy inflows of foreign
assistance, particularly from OPEC sources and commercial lenders. These
resources were used principally to finance the nationalization of the
mining sector, ambitious projects in transport infrastructure and a few
large industrial ventures which were to prove unviable.
6.        In 1978 the Government undertook a stabilization program which
called for the rescheduling of more than US$200 million in debt service
obligations, tight controls over the Government expenditures and a
reinforced tax effort. Increased iron ore and fish exports and higher crop
and livestock production enabled the economy to pull out of the stagnation
which had characterized it since 1977; real GDP growth over the 1979-81
period averaged 4.1 percent per annum.
7.        The improved performance of the economy could not be sustained,
however, in the face of a depressed world market for iron ore and the
recurrence of severe drought.  Iron ore production fell by more than 20
percent in 1982/83 to a level only 65 percent of that registered 10 years
earlier.  With rainfall only about 30 percent of normal levels in the
1983/84 and 1984/85 seasons, the livestock herd suffered major losses, and
cereals production met less than 10 percent of total demand; aggregate
output of the economy increased by only 1.4 percent p.a. from 1982 to 1984.
In the absence of sustained growth, per capita average income in 1985 is
essentially unchanged in real terms from that of a decade ago.
8.        The public finance situation deteriorated substantially during
the 1982-84 period. The Government's consolidated fiscal deficit rose from
UM 1.7 billion (4.6 percent of GDP) in 1981 to a peak of UM 4.8 billion
(11.2 percent of GDP) in 1983, before falling to UM 3.6 billion (7.8
percent of GDP) in 1984. A 9 percent increase in the size of the civil
service in 1982/83 and high debt service payments contributed to the
deficits. The deficits were financed out of Central Bank advances to the
Treasury and through an accumulation of external and domestic payment
arrears, estimated at about UM 5.5 billion by the end of 1984.
9.        In the external sector, the growth of exports has been modest
while imports have been high, mainly because of capital imports associated
with major public investments. In 1983-84 the current account deficit was
close to US$230 million on average, or more than 30 percent of GDP, as the
investment ratio averaged 35 percent of GDP. Financing came mainly from
external  loans  from  Governments  and  multilateral  institutions  on
concessional terms.



-3-
10.       Despite the high degree of concessionality, annual debt service
obligations are well beyond Nauritania's payment capacity. Arrears on debt
service have increased from US$23 million at the end of 1981 to an
estimated US$103 million as of end 1984.  Total scheduled payments on
existing debt at that time implied a debt service averaging US$180 million
over the 1986-1988 period without taking into account new borrowing after
December 31, 1984.
The Recovery Program and the Current Outlook
11.       Mauritania's balance of payments and budgetary situation thus
remains extremely weak, requiring continuing adjustment measures over the
medium term and heavy support from abroad in the form of financial and
technical assistance and food aid. The gradual depreciation of the ouguiya
during 1984 was one of a series of recovery measures required to reduce
external and domestic imbalances to sustainable levels and maximize the
modest prospects  for the economy  In  the medium-term.  Further reform
measures in the areas of exchange rate and price policy, fiscal
administration, the public enterprise sector, the banking system and the
public investment program are being pursued in the context of an Economic
and Financial Recovery Program (1985-88) that the Mauritanian authorities
approved in early September 1985 and presented to a Consultative Group
meeting chaired by the Bank on November 26 and 27, 1985. In March 1985,
the Government had already reached agreement with the IMF on a
proposed Stand-By arrangement for SDR 12 million. In accordance with that
agreement, it had undertaken in February 1985 a further 19 percent
effective devaluation of the ouguiya in domestic currency terms, as well as
increases in cereals prices at both producer and consumer levels ranging
from 12-50 percent. The Government also raised all interest rates by two
percentage points to levels which are positive in real terms and took
measures to restrict credit expansion. The IMF Stand-By arrangement was
also implemented, while negotiations with Arab and Western bilateral
creditors to fill the projected 1985 financing gap of about US$200 million
(including arrears) progressed satisfactorily.
12.       Successful  implementation  of  the  Government's  Economic  and
Financial Recovery Program, which includes priority macroeconomic and
sectoral policy measures and a sound public investment program, should be
supported by the international community because of its critical importance
to the medium-term economic outlook. With disciplined economic management
and well-conceived measures to exploit Mauritania's limited resources,
modest but sustained growth in output is possible. Although international
iron ore markets are not expected to recover significantly through the
1980s, it is possible to improve the cost effectiveness of mining
operations. With World Bank assistance, the Government has embarked on a
major rehabilitation of Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (SNIM),
the parastatal company in charge of iron ore mining in Mauritania. SNIM's
rehabilitation is an essential part of the Government's Recovery Program.
Following this year's good rains, rural sector production is expected to
recover from the drought-induced lows of 1984.  In the livestock sector,
the proposed project aims at helping the national herd after the heavy
mortality and accelerated offtake of the past two years through better
services and the provision of production inputs.   In the medium-term,
irrigation development will increasingly contribute to food supplies, even



-4-
though cereals production will remain highly vulnerable to the effects of
drought. In the fisheries sector, now a major source of foreign exchange
and budgetary revenue, growth could remain strong for another 3-4 years,
but should then level off if resources are not to be over-exploited. Under
favorable assumptions, overall growth of the economy through the remainder
of the L980s could average 3 percent annually, about the projected rate of
population growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAI ETANIA
13.       To date, the Bank Group has had 23 operations in Mauritania for a
total of US$262.5 million.  Of these, three are Bank loans for mining
operations (US$66 million to MIFERMA in 1960, US$60 million to SNIM in 1979
for the Guelbs Iron Ore Project and US$20 million for SNIM's rehabilitation
in 1985). The other 20 are IDA credits totalling US$116.5 million. Of the
IDA operations, five have been in the transport sector, seven in the rural
sector, two for education, two for technical assistance to economic
planning and one for technical assistance to the Rural Sector, and there
have been separate projects for urban and rural development, Public
Enterprise Rehabilitation, Artisan and Industrial Development and petroleum
exploration. In 1985, the IFC has financed a food oil refinery. The Bank
Group's presence in Mauritania was fairly substantial in the early 1970s,
and in 1970-72 it was the third largest donor providing about 18 percent of
Mauritania's external capital assistance. Since then, external financial
assistance to Mauritania from other sources has increased rapidly and the
Bank Group's share in Mauritania's external capital assistance now amounts
to about 8.0 percent.
14.       Until the mid-1970s, Bank Group strategy for Mauritania focussed
on traditional projects, mainly in agriculture, transport and education.
This assistance has since been broadened to address the institutional
weaknesses in country economic management, investment planning and project
implementation.   In  1978,  the Association  assisted  the  Government  in
designing a financial and economic rehabilitation program for which the
first  Technical  Assistance  Project  (FY77)  provided  the  expertise.
Assistance for the formulation of macroeconomic policy, a medium- and
long-term development strategy, and investment programs is being continued
under a Second Technical Assistance Project (FY82), which is also helping
to develop a pipeline of feasible investment projects. The objective of
this assistance is to institute a much more thorough analysis of
investments than in the past, especially to avoid large, capital-intensive
projects with low productivity and unsatisfactory rates of return.
Priority will now be given to projects involving the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing infrastructure, and only to those new investments
that promise a high rate of return.
15.       After  a- comprehensive  review  of  public  sector  enterprises
financed under the first Technical Assistance project, assistance was also
provided to the Interministerial Committee for the Rehabilitation of Public
Enterprises in the course of preparing a medium-term rehabilitation program
for  the public  enterprise  sector.   This program  includes measures  to
increase  the  efficiency  of  existing  enterprises  through  selective
rehabilitation,   privatization   and   liquidation,   and  also   outlines



-5-
rehabilitation programs for several of these enterprises, including pricing
policies, personnel adjustments, streamlining of management and appropriate
maintenance of equipment. In support of this program, a Public Enterprise
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project was approved by the Board
of Executive Directors in FY85.
16.       In order  to address Mauritania's  severe balance of payments
problems, tight fiscal situation and inability to service its public debt,
the Association, in close cooperation with the IMF, helped the Government
finalize a Recovery Program (1985-88) which was presented to a Consultative
Group meeting held on November 26 and 27, 1985. To back up these efforts,
our country and economic sector work, particularly concerning the banking,
fisheries, education, energy and urban development sectors, has been
intensified.   To  support  the  program  more  directly,  a  policy-based
operation is envisaged for FY87 which will aim at improving economic
management and promoting optimal use of domestic resources.
17.       Professfonal training and technical assistance will remain an
essential ingredient of IDA assistance to overcome the acute shortages of
trained local staff at all levels, a major difficulty in project
implementation. Through project aid and technical assistance, efforts have
been made to strengthen farmers' training and vocational training for the
modern  industrial  sector,  as  well  as  to  broaden  access  to  primary
education.  Nonetheless, pupils completing secondary and vocational schools
with satisfactory results remain scarce; this partially explains the low
productivity of employees in the modern sector.
18.       Assistance to the education sector is being provided under the
Second Education Project (FY82) which aims at expanding access to primary
education, improving vocational training in the modern industrial and
commercial sectors, and training lower secondary school teachers to replace
a substantial number of foreign  technical assistants.   The Government
recently requested that the Association assist its Education Reform
Committee in reviewing key sectoral issues, defining long-term objectives,
formulating policies, preparing an investment program to increase the
efficiency of education and training, and reducing recurrent costs because
of the already large share of education (30 percent) in the national
budget.
19.       Assistance to agriculture will continue since this sector is
still considered Mauritania's principal source of long-term growth, despite
its weak base and extreme vulnerability to drought, and high investment
costs   due   to   difficult   physical   conditions,   limited   transport
infrastructure, and the high level of technical assistance needed. Through
the Second Technical Assistance to the Rural Sector Project (FY83), rural
institutions are being strengthened and incentives for efficiency developed
by addressing such fundamental issues as input and product pricing,
subsidies  and  land  tenure.   A  Small  Scale  Irrigation  project  (FY85)
continues IDA's assistance to the irrigation program by financing the
establishment of 75 small perimeters of 20-25 ha each. The participation
of beneficiaries in construction, maintenance and operation is being
emphasized to minimize investment costs.  The proposed Second Livestock
project would improve livestock production, strengthen services and-based



-6-
on experience in Niger and Mali--establish pastoral cooperatives on a trial
basis and allocate grazing rights to identifiable land areas.
20.       In the energy sector, our assistance consists of supporting the
Government's search for oil through the Petroleum Exploration Project
(FY82). and carrying out an energy assessment in order to recommend
strategies and policies for improving energy demand management, developing
indigenous energy resources, strengthening institutions, and identifying
areas for follow-up technical assistance that could form the basis for a
future operation.
21.       The Association is also helping Mauritania to develop an overall
strategy for the urban sector. Urbanization has accelerated dramatically
in recent years, but appropriate measures have not been taken to adjust to
this development.   Sector work is being carried out to gather detailed
knowledge of urban requirements, and to examine wider urban policy issues
in the overall context of Mauritania's development prospects. This sector
work may lead to the design of an urban project at a later stage.
22.       To assist in Mauritania's efforts to diversify employment and
sources of income, financing was provided through the Mauritanian
Development Bank (Credit 888-MAU) to encourage private enterprise and to
promote  artisanal  carpet  weaving  activities.   A  Second  Industrial
Development project (Credit 1572-MAU) approved by the Board in FY85 is
continuing support for these objectives by financing studies to develop
appropriate policies for improving subsector performance and to assess the
possibilities for further expansion of the manufacturing sector.
23.       The Recovery Program for 1985-88 has identified fisheries and
banking as two priority sectors where well-defined actions are urgently
required to help the economy recover from its past record of low growth.
To assist the Government in defining meaningful strategies in these two key
sectors, the Bank has financed two studies which will provide the
government and the donor community with a sound basis for defining basic
studies and other policy actions. A first set of actions should be carried
out in 1986. As it is the best source of growth in the short-term, the
strategy objective in the fisheries sector will be to capture a larger
share of the benefits currently reaped by foreign trawlers or contractors
operating in Mauritanian waters. Once this sector strategy is in place, a
fisheries project would be considered.
24.       The banking sector is composed of six banks, four of which are
fully controlled by the Central Bank.  The sector has been suffering from a
steady decline in its profitability (despite a continuous expansion of
lending), obvious illiquidity, a tight cash position and risks that are out
of proportion to the banks' potential.  The capital and net worth of the
banks have been progressively eroded because of accumulated deficits and
bad debts, which are reaching the point where the future of the banks is
jeopardized.   The study,  cofinanced with the Arab Monetary Fund, will
provide an objective analysis of the means and actions required to restore
the banks' financial viability, improve their management and change their
system of credit control. The implementation of the rehabilitation program
for the banking sector is obviously crucial for the promotion of all
productive sectors. The Bank will consider providing some assistance for



this rehabilitation program as part of the policy-based operation envisaged
for FY87.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Overview
25.       Two-thirds of Mauritania lies in the Saharan zone with less than
100 mm of annual rainfall; the rest is in the Sahel with a maximum precipi-
tation of only 500 mm. Mauritania thus has one of the poorest agricultural
resource bases  in all of West Africa.  The rural sector provides  a
livelihood for about 70 percent of the population and contributes about
25 percent of GDP, most of it from animal husbandry, which probably still
provides a living to more than half the population. Sedentary agriculture
is limited to a relatively narrow strip along the Senegal River.
Insufficient and erratic rainfall, aggravated in the past decade by the
recurrence of serious droughts, has been the major barrier to this sector's
growth.
Crop Cultivation
26.       Along the Senegal and Gorgol rivers, farmers grow rainfed millet,
flood-recession sorghum, and some vegetables. Yields are low due to the
use of traditional cultivation techniques as well as irregular flooding and
rainfall. Production of sorghum and millet in favorable years is about
40,000 tons, which satisfies only 15 percent of domestic cereal demand.
Expansion or improvement of rainfed agriculture is technically, financially
and economically non-viable and farmers will not risk investing where there
is a substantial probability of loss due to drought.
27.       Irrigation was not started until the 1960s and, by the end of
1984, about 5,000 ha had been developed, half being small perimeters of
about 20 ha and the other half accounted for by three large projects,
Mpourie (1,400 ha), Gorgol (600 ha) and Kaedi (700 ha). Production from
irrigated perimeters represents less than 10 percent of the country's
cereal consumption. It is estimated that by 1990, about 6,500 additional
ha may be irrigated.
The Livestock Subsector
28.       Animal  husbandry  is  only  possible  in  Mauritania's  southern
regions,  located on the northern fringes of the Sahel.  These are the
higher rainfall areas, but even there' rainfall is relatively low and always
erratic (at most 500 mm/year in some of the southernmost border areas) and
recurrent droughts are even more pronounced than elsewhere in the Sahel.
The traditional nomadic lifestyle persists, but considerable changes have
taken place. Since the great Sahelian drought of 1973, precipitation has
been below the annual mean. The 1983 and 1984 droughts were particularly
severe. The inadequate rainfall has upset the system: livestock, unable to
find enough grazing in the wet season pastures, now often stay all year in
the dry season grazing areas that were formerly used for only four months,
and some are even forced to proceed further south across the Senegal river
into Mali and Senegal.   This  compresses the animal population into a



-8-
smaller area and increases competition for feed and land resources, not
only amongst herders, but also between herders and settled farmers.
29.       Shifts in herd ownership represent another element of change.
Savings originating in the modern sector have long been invested in live-
stock, where, in spite of inherent risks, they have earned attractive
returns in the past.   Investment in livestock is also a longstanding
tradition. This trend toward absentee ownership and the construction of
many public wells has undermined traditional ownership control over grazing
in the areas served by public wells. Herds belonging to investors (mostly
urban traders and Government officials), herded by hired personnel,
increasingly roam grazing areas that were traditionally the preserve of
pastoralists, thereby increasing pressure on the land.
30.       There is uncertainty about the size of the national herd and its
production parameters. Herd monitoring is made difficult by the herd's
dispersion over a vast area, including remote and inaccessible regions, as
well as constant cross-border movements. It is estimated that during the
late 1970s and early 1980s the national herd amounted to some 1.2-1.4
million head of cattle, 7.5-8.0 million sheep and goats and around 750,000
camels, together equivalent to about 2.6 million TLU 1/ . Off-take rates
are estimated at around 10 percent, 30 percent and 9 percent, respectively.
Most production is consumed domestically, but with some surplus available
for export.
31.       The 1983 and 1984 droughts have changed the livestock subsector
dramatically. Many cattle have died and many others have been driven into
Mali and Senegal. The domestic herd is presently estimated at only 550,000
head of cattle, whereas the numbers of other species have probably
decreased less since sheep, goats and camels tend to tolerate drought
better. A tentative estimate would place their numbers as of late 1985 at
7.0 million sheep and goats and 700,000 camels, making the domestic herd
equivalent to 1.9 million TLU.
32.       The most important market is the domestic one, and is centered
around the urban centers of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou, and the mining
centers. Government is concerned about the country's meat supply. Present
supply is still adequate because of ongoing destocking but shortages are
likely when rainfall improves and restocking resumes.    With continued
population increase and the constraints on the growth of the Mauritanian
livestock subsector, long term expectations are that domestic demand and
prices will grow.   Should domestic livestock production exceed domestic
consumption  needs,  there would not  be  any  export  problem.   A  major
objective of the project would therefore be to redress the present
deterioration of resource management and increase productivity of the
subsector.
I/   One TLU (Tropical Livestock Unit) equals one head of cattle of 300 kg.
In an average herd, this equals about: 1 camel, 0.73 head of cattle,
and 0.12 sheep or goat.



-9-
The Institutions in the Livestock Subsector
33.       The  Ministry  of  Rural Development  (MDR)  is  responsible for
agriculture,  livestock and the conservation  of natural resources.   It
administers five semi-autonomous public agencies: the National Center for
Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Research (CNERV), the M'Pourie State Farm,
the National School for Training and Extension (ENFVR), the National Center
for Agricultural Research (CNRA), and the National Rural Development Agency
(SONADER).   The  last  two  institutions  deal  exclusively  with  crop
cultivation.   There  is  also  an  autonomous  state marketing  enterprise
(SOMECOB), for which responsibility is shared with the Ministry of Finance.
MDR suffers from a shortage of qualified national staff at both the
technical and policymaking levels. French technical assistance and an
IDA-financed project (Technical Assistance to the Rural Sector) seek to
alleviate the problem.
34.       The Livestock Department (DNE) of MDR maintains its headquarters
in Nouakchott and has 11 regional field centers in the regional capitals
plus 19 veterinary field stations, most of which are located in the
southernmost third of the country. The Department consists of a Division
of Animal Health responsible for field services and the annual rinderpest
vaccination campaign and a Division of Animal Production. Each regional
center is staffed with a senior livestock technician who is responsible for
supervising the field stations in his region and for planning and executing
the annual vaccination campaign.   Drugs are usually not available for
budgetary reasons, however, and the conditions of infrastructure, the state
of maintenance of the cold chain and vehicles, as well as inadequate and
unmotivated staff make vaccination against the major diseases (rinderpest
and pleuropneumonia) difficult. The proposed project would address this
problem.
35.       The ENFVR in Kaedi has been training veterinary field staff for
over 20 years. It offers two levels of training: a three-year course for
Livestock Assistants and a two-year course for Animal Health Assistants.
Graduates from the school can easily be absorbed bv the system, which is
currently  understaffed.   ENFVR,  in  its  training  of  animal  health
assistants, needs to give more emphasis to such practical matters as
equipment maintenance in the field, communication with livestock owners,
the sale of drugs and supplies, and the handling of money and simple
accounting.
36.       The autonomous state marketing enterprise, SOMECOB, was estab-
lished in 1981 with an official but unenforceable monopoly over livestock
exports and the authority to intervene in the marketplace, purchasing
livestock for export with the secondary objective of stabilizing domestic
prices.  SOMECOB is also responsible for the Kaedi Abattoir, which was
constructed in 1975 as an export slaughterhouse. SOMECOB exports have been
negligible because of a lack of competitiveness, and its inability to
dominate the market and control private exports which take place freely and
without obstruction.  As a result, SOMECOB's purchases in the domestic
market and, consequently, its price support effect have been insignificant.
The Kaedi Abattoir is now functioning as a municipal slaughterhouse far
below capacity.



- 10 -
37.       CNERV was established  in  1973  to study animal  diseases,  do
research on animal nutrition and conduct refresher courses for veterinary
field staff. Due to limited budgetary allocations (it has an annual budget
of UN 10 million of which 60 percent is for salaries), its activities are
restricted to the Nouakchott area.  The institute has a small but well
trained staff, energetic leadership and receives technical assistance from
France.
Government's Objectives and Strategy
38.       The Government gives high priority to rural development as the
key to economic growth.  The Government's main objectives for the rtral
sector are threefold:   to increase food production, of both cereals and
animal products; to protect and rehabilitate the environment; anr to
reverse the sharp increase in rural/urban migration. These objective-. are
sound,  as  is  the  proposed  strategy  of  investing  in  projects  with
substantial beneficiary participation and with the lowest possible
recurrent costs.
Sector Issues
39.       Three main issues affect the rural sector in Mauritania.  First,
instirutions are weak due to the acute shortage of trained personnel.
Second, investment costs are very high, due mainly to the difficult
physical conditions, and to the use of costly expatriate manpower. This is
particularly true for investments outside the main urban centers. Third,
policies on prices and subsidies are urban-oriented, thus reducing
production  incentives.   Such  policies  have  been  largely  confined  to
cereals, however, and are being adjusted progressively. Producer prices in
the livestock sector are determined by marker forces, and efforts to
influence producer prices through SOMECOB have failed (para 36).
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
40.       The proposed project would be the Bank Group's eighth lending
operation in the rural sector. The first seven operations were: a live-
stock development project in FY72; a Drought Relief Fund project in FY73.
under which IDA financed a small irrigation sub-project; the Gorgol
Engineering project in FY74, which prepared the final engineering designs
and tender documents for the Gorgol Irrigation Troject; a first Technical
Assistance project to the rural sector in FY77; a small irrigation compo-
nent under the Urban and Rural Development Fund project in FY79; the Gorgol
Irrigation project in FY81; and a Second Technical Assistance project to
the rural sector in FY84 and a Small Scale Irrigation project in FY85.
Project performance audit reports have been issued for the first four
operations. Common problems have included:
(a) slow implementation due to administrative inefficiencies
within the Government, itself a consequence of the acute
shortage of trained local staff at all levels, although
there was a notable improvement in SONADER under the first
Technical Assistance project;



- 11 -
(b) cost overruns, partly due to slow implementation and exacer-
bated by the exceptional political situation that prevailed
up to 1979;
(c) inadequate understanding of underlying sociological factors;
and
(d) difficulties in obtaining counterpart funds.
The four projects have nevertheless achieved an acceptable degree of
success.
41.       The lessons learned from past experience have been taken into
account in the design of the new projects.   As far as the livestock
subsector in particular is concerned, more time has been spent in preparing
the project, better attention is being paid to staff training and a
substantial amount of technical assistance is being provided to augment the
country's  limited  executive  capacity.   Cost  recovery  is  also  being
introduced to ensure the continued provision of inputs and services after
disbursements have ceased.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and the Bank Group's Role
42.       The proposed project was identified in December 1979 by the Bank
and was prepared  in  1982 by consultants in cooperation with DNE.   A
Government request for funding was received in June 1983 and appraisal took
place in October 1983. In February 1982, a first advance of US$250,000 was
granted under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). A second advance of
US$165,000 was granted in August of 1984 for establishment of pastoral
associations and preparation of the plan for a new abattoir and tendering.
Negotiations took place in Washington October 15-17, 1985, with a
Government delegation led by Mr. Mohamed Lemine Ould Deidah.
43.       The slow pace of processing was a result of the introduction at
appraisal of the concept of cost recovery based on charging for veterinary
drugs, feeds, and mandatory vaccinations against Rinderpest and Contagious
Bovine  Pleuropneumonia  (CBPP).   The  acceptance  of  the  principle  and
agreement on the method of distribution and sale of supplies required
extensive dialogue at both the technical and political levels. The third
PPF advance of US$100,000 in June 1985 for the repair of vaccination
crushes and for an extension campaign was in response to the Government's
concerns that livestock owners might reject cost recovery if they saw no
proof of better services being provided by the DNE.
44.       The project is in line with the Bank Group strategy in Mauritania
which aims at helping the Government to identify and exploit opportunities
that can have maximum direct impact on employment and the income of the
majority of the population. Animal husbandry has been a major source of
income -:r the rural population. It is currently being threatened by the
cumulative effects of drought, rangeland overstocking, and population
pressure.   However,  the genetic adaptation of Mauritanian livestock to



- 12 -
harsh  conditions  and  the  knowledge  and  experience  of  traditional
pastoralists in exploiting the range efficiently remain assets which can
yet yield employment and incomes for a significant share of the population.
45.       The project would introduce some innovations and reforms in the
subsector.   It would introduce cost recovery from beneficiaries thereby
creating revenue for DNE and enabling it to finance its field operations.
Pastoralist cooperative associations, launched as an experiment under the
project for the supply and distribution of animal health and other inputs,
would constitute an organizational structure for implementing improved
range management techniques. The project also includes a new scheme for
the distribution of livestock inputs through DNE field stations. All of
these components present difficulties in the Mauritanian context and the
Government is looking to the Bank for assistance in addressing these
problems in an impartial and technically coherent way.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The objectives of the project are to:
(a) increase the knowledge and understanding of the livestock
subsector;
(b)  slow  the  deterioration  of  pastures  and  increase  herd
productivity   through   the   establishment   of   pastoral
cooperative associations;
(c) elaborate a development plan and prepare follow-on projects
for the livestock subsector;
(d) provide institutional and structural reforms, particularly
with respect to the financing of livestock services; and
(e) increase production by making improved services and produc-
tion inputs available to livestock owners.
47.       To achieve the above objectives,  the project would have six
components. First, it would provide assistance to the Government in estab-
lishing 15 pastoral cooperative associations, as an experiment in social
and territorial organization and with a view to achieving better management
of renewable resources.   Under a communal grazing system, no incentive
exists to improve the grazing and water resources, since the individual or
group making the investment is not assured of any benefit.  Associations
would be allocated rights to grazing land to induce them to improve their
g.azing and stockwater supplies and benefit from them. They would do this
by establishing reserved areas which would be allowed to seed before being
grazed and thus slow down surface water run-off.   Pastoral cooperative
associations would be granted legally enforceable grazing and stockwater
rights, including the right to deny access to grazing areas which they wish
to improve.   These associations would qualify for assistance from the
production improvement fund to be established under the project (see
below).   Second,  the project would provide the necessary resources to
obtain and analyze much-needed information regarding livestock production
systems, draft a national livestock development policy addressing the



- 13 -
sector's fundamental problems, monitor the project and prepare follow-up
projects. Third, it would provide technical assistance, equipment, initial
start-up cost and a revolving fund to import, and sell to livestock owners
the necessary veterinary drugs and vaccines, animal feeds, feed supplements
and other production inputs at full cost.  Fourth, it would strengthen
public livestock services by rehabilitating infrastructure, providing
equipment, training staff and building competence in the field of range and
stockwater management.   To assure adequate funding of field operations
while not increasing the burden of recurrent costs on the national budget,
the cost of public livestock services would be recovered through a
surcharge on production inputs (including veterinary products) to be
deposited in a Livestock Fund that would finance the costs of DNE field
operations.   Fifth,  it  would  encourage  self-help  among  groups  of
pastoralists by providing a Production Improvement Fund which would finance
(on a grant basis) small rural works, firebreaks or activities for which
pastoral groups themselves have mobilized at least 30 percent of the
financing. Lastly, the project would provide partial funding for a simple,
but hygienic abattoir for Nouakchott.
48.       Pastoral Cooperative Associations.  The 15 pastoral cooperative
associations to be established under the project would be supplied with
inputs and support services to help them become officially recognized
producer groups with responsibility for their grazing and stockwater
resources.   During preparation of the project, a team consisting of a
sociologist   and  a  livestock  specialist  successfully  created  two
associations on a trial, but non-operational, basis. Presently, under PPF
financing, the same team is proceeding to establish other associations.
The Government has agreed during negotiations that only bona fide
cooperative associations formed by pastoralists would benefit from the well
construction  and  rehabilitation  program  financed  by  the  project.   A
pastoral cooperative association would initially consist of 30 to 50
households of livestock owners who traditionally have grazed and migrated
together. The association would be assisted by DNE, which would provide:
(a)  animal health services;
(b)  stockwater and range management extension services;
(c) veterinary drugs, animal feeds and other livestock supplies
at full cost; and
(d)  training for officials of the associations and for selected
members as veterinary lay assistants.
For each association, the project would finance the repair of up to four
wells and the construction of a new well under a contract to be entered
into with the Water Affairs Department of the NDR.
49.       Studies and Monitoring.  A team of three national professionals
would be assisted by an international specialist and, in cooperation with
the Office of Agricultural Statistics of the Ministry of Rural Development
(CT/MDR) and the CNERV, would provide a description of the existing
livestock production systems and of the livestock subsector.  The team



- 14 -
would then develop and submit for Government's consideration in year 3 a
livestock development plan as well as proposals for follow-up projects.
50.       Distribution and Sale of Production Inputs.  Private firms and
individual traders presently find it too costly to market veterinary drugs,
feeds  and  feed  supplements  outside  the  regional  capitals.   The DNE,
however, has an underemployed network of staffed veterinary stations in the
field. Until such time as the private sector develops a capacity to supply
inputs to livestock owners, the project would organize the sale of inputs
from these outlets.  By maintaining an adequate mark-up, the project is
expected to encourage private sector participation in the market.  This
mark-up would be used to finance field operations of the DNE via a
Livestock Fund.  A special import fee on private imports of veterinary
drugs would be deposited on a treasury account earmarked for the same
purposes as the Livestock Fund.   Government agreed during negotiations
that:
(a) there would be no restriction on private domestic trade in
veterinary drugs and vaccines or animal feeds other than
those pertaining to technical requirements and quality
control;
(b) BIE would charge, for all veterinary drugs and vaccines and
all animal feeds, full cost c.i.f. at place of sale, plus a
mark-up of at least 15 percent of retail sales price;
[c) a special import fee would be collected from private
importers of veterinary drugs amounting to 9 percent of the
invoiced cost of the imported items; and
(d) the mark-up would be deposited in a Livestock Fund and the
special import fee in an earmarked treasury account, the
proceeds of both of which are to be used to fund field
operations of DNE against a budget to be agreed upon by IDA.
51.       Strengtheuing of Livestock Services.  The DNE has 30 regional and
district veterinary stations. The project would:
(a) establish a system of cost recovery which would in time
assure adequate funding of the field services and such
funding would be provided by the proceeds of the surcharge
on prices or that of the import fee in those cases where the
private sector substitutes for BIE;
(b, complete, rehabilitate and modify the field infrastructure;
(c) upgrade the staff through refresher courses and more prac-
tical training;
Cd) provide additional equipment and vehicles for field
stations; and
(e) improve DNE's financial management.



- 15 -
52.       A Range Management Section would be created in DNE's division of
animal production. A Stockwater Section would similarly be created in the
division of animal production and would be staffed by the two livestock
technicians trained in stockwater conservation and development. These two
sections would extend advice and assistance to the pastoral associations.
Their creation would be a condition of effectiveness.
53.       In order to improve training of both existing and new staff and
to create facilities for the training of the officials of the pastoral
associations, the project would:
(a) improve the existing pre-service training program;
(b) develop a capacity to conduct programs of in-service
training and upgrading for department staff;
(c) initiate training programs for the officials and members
selected as veterinary lay assistants of the pastoral
cooperative associations; and
(d) provide mass-media support for livestock extension.
54.       An   internationally   recruited  Project  Coordinator/Financial
Controller would be provided for five years.  He would be in charge of
project coordination and be a financial adviser to the project director
(para 63).
55.       Production Improvement Fund.   This fund would be established in
the DNE to finance partly, on a grant basis, small rural works, interven-
tions or activities for which groups of livestock owners would be willing
and able to provide at least 10 percent of the cost in cash and 20 percent
in cash or kind.   The Government  agreed during negotiations that the
Production Improvement Fund would only be used for investments not
exceeding UM 2 million per project to rehabilitate existing infrastructure
of pastoral cooperative associations or, exceptionally and with the
approval of IDA, of well established groups of traditional pastoralists
with no access to other kinds of development funds.
56.       The Nouakchott Abattoir.  The District of Nouakchott wishes to
replace the existing unsanitary slaughterhouse with a simple but hygienic
abattoir.   The  project  would  finance  the  construction,  equipment  and
working capital of this abattoir in Nouakchott. The Government has agreed
during negotiations that the abattoir would be operated on a commercial
basis and would charge fees allowing full cost recovery, including
amortization.
Project Costs and Financing
57.       Total project costs, net of taxes and import duties which would
be waived, but including contingencies, are estimated at UM 1,446 million,
equivalent to US$18.1 million, of which 67 percent would be foreign
exchange. The project is conceived as a 5-year project, but costs include
a provision for a possible delay in implementation based on a 7-year
disbursement profile (see Summary, page iii).  The implementation delay



- 16 -
contingency amounts to UM 128 million (US$1.6 million). Base costs have
been set at October 1985; they have been established by adjusting prices
obtained in February 1985 with the actual rates of increase in foreign and
local costs (5 percent and 12 percent per year, respectively).  Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been added to the cost of all goods and
services, except for civil works (15 percent).  Price contingencies have
been calculated at the following annual rates:
Price Contingencies Used on Project Costs
(in percent)
1986                     1987-1992
Foreign costs                  7.5                           8.0
Local costs                    12.0                         10.0
58.       IDA  would  finance  stockwater  development  (except  technical
assistance) for the pastoral cooperative associations, technical assistance
and consultants for management, training, studies, and input distribution,
and 50 percent of externally financed incremental operating costs.  Funds
advanced under the PPF facility would be reimbursed from the proceeds of
the IDA credit. IDAts participation in the project would be US$7.6 million
(42 percent of project cost), 70.0 percent of which would be for foreign
exchange  costs.   The  African  Development  Fund  (AfDF)  has  agreed  to
participate with a loan amounting to US$6.3 million equivalent, on terms
identical to those of IDA. The OPEC Fund has also agreed to participate in
financing the project with a loan of US$2.0 million to be reimbursed in 17
years,  with  no  interest  but  a  service  charge  of  1 percent.   The
effectiveness of. the IDA credit would be subject to effectiveness of the
AfDF  and  OPEC  financing.   Together,  foreign  sources  would  finance
88 percent of total project cost.  The Fonds National de Developpement
(FND) would contribute UM 40 million (US$500,000) and the District of
Nouakchott would contribute UM 3.2 million (US$40,000). Beneficiaries are
expected to contribute US$1.2 million and the Government the equivalent of
US$453,000.  Together, domestic sources would finance the equivalent of
US$2.2 million or 12 percent of project costs. Project costs would include
US$2.1 million of externally financed recurrent cost (11 percent of project
cost).   This  is essential because of budgetary constraints.   However,
recurrent cost financing by external sources would be on a declining scale
for input distribution and for the animal health and production components,
for which operating costs would increasingly be financed through cost
recovery.
Procurement
59.       Stockwater development for the pastoral cooperative associations
would be executed by the Hydrology Department of MDR under a contract to be
concluded with DNE. The Hydrology Department would use its own equipment
and personnel to the extent possible. The proposed credit would provide
necessary equipment that is not available and finance materials and the
incremental  operating  costs.    The  Hydrology  Department  may  also
sub-contract part of the works.
60.       The IDA-financed goods and works for this component would be
grouped in homogeneous bidding packages where feasible and the following
procurement procedures would apply. Contracts of US$100,000 or more would



- 17 -
be  subject  to  international  competitive  bidding.   Contracts  exceeding
US$50,000 but less than US$100,000 would be awarded under limited inter-
national bidding procedures acceptable to the Association. Contracts under
US$50,000 would be awarded according to local competitive procedures which
'have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Association. Consultants
and technical assistance financed by IDA would be procured in accordance
with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by  the World Bank as Executing Agency.   The  terms  of  reference  and
qualifications of all consultants and technical assistants would be subject
to IDA agreement.  Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below, with the figures in parenthesis showing amounts to be financed by
IDA. Non-IDA financed goods and services would be procured according to
-he rules of AfDF and OPEC respectively on a parallel basis, except
operating cost, which will be jointly financed by IDA and AfDF (50 percent
each). Since it cannot be determined at this time for what purposes the
implementation delay contingency will be used, it has been listed under
N.A. For expenditure other than operating costs, the procedures described
above will apply.
Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method             Total
Item to be procured            ICB       LCB        Other           N.A.      Cost
Civil Works                    2.5       0.1           -               -       2.6
Stock Water Development        0.4          -        0.1             1.0       1.5
(0.4)        -        (0.1)          (1.0)      (1.5)
Equipment and Vehicles         1.5          -          -               -       1.5
Consultants, Studies and
T.A.                             -          -        4.2               -       4.2
-         -        (3.0)             -       (3.0)
Inputs                         1.6          -          -               -       1.6
Production Improvement
Fund                                        - -      0.9               -       0.9
Scholarship                                 -          -             0.4       0.4
Operating Costs                             -          -             3.3       3.3
_-_        -            (1.0)     (1.0)
Repayment PPF                               -          -             0.5       0.5
_  _       _            (0.5)     (0.5)
Implementation Delay Cont.       -          -          -             1.6       1.6
-   -      -            (1.6)     (1.6)
6.0       0.1         5.2            6.8       18.1
LO4          -                       311  J41   _7. g
a/ Amounts in brackets are financed by the IDA credit.
N.A. - Not applicable.
Disbursement
61.       Disbursement of the IDA credit would be against the categories of
expenditure and within the limits shown below:



- 18 -
Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
Categories                                    Amount           Z of Total
(USS million)       Expenditures
a) Civil Works a/                              1.5               100%
b) Consultants and Technical Assistance        3.0               100%
c) Incremental Operating Costs                1.0                 50%
d) Refinancing PPF                            0.5                100%
e) Unallocated                                1.6                  -
7.6
a/   Stockwater for pastoral associations.
62.       In order to facilitate the pre-financing of project expenditure,
a Special Account of US$200,000 representing about 3 months of project
expenditures, would be established from the proceeds of the IDA credit.
The Special Account shall be operated under the joint signature of the
Director of Livestock and the Project Coordinator/Financial Controller.
Similarly, a Special Account would be established out of AfDF loan proceeds
to pre-finance AfDF - financed project costs.
Project Organization and Management
63.       DNE would be responsible for project execution.   The project
would not have a separate structure, but would be incorporated into DNE
with the Director of Livestock as project director.   The DNE is well
managed  and able to carry out the project.   Each component would be
executed either by the Animal Health or by the Animal Production Division,
both of which are part of DNE. In the case of new activities not covered
by an existing organization (e.g., systems studies and monitoring), a new
section or entity would be established. The Financial Controller/Project
Coordinator to be recruited under the project (para 54) would coordinate
project implementation and be the financial adviser to the Director of
Livestock.  His appointment and the appointments of the Commercial and
Financial Director of the Livestock Input Distribution Unit (see below) and
the Construction Engineer would be conditions of effectiveness.
64.       Input Distribution.  For the import and distribution of livestock
inputs, DNE would establish, as a condition of effectiveness, a Livestock
Input Distribution Unit (BIE) in Nouakchott. The BIE could have financial
autonomy, and would maintain separate accounts.  It would be headed by a
Director with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA.  The BIE
would use DNE's veterinory stations as sales outlets.  Veterinary staff
would sell drugs and other inputs only against full cost payment.  The
station chief would be responsible for keeping account of stocks and cash.
Periodically, but not less than once per month, a BIE representative would
visit the station, to take receipt of the money and consolidate stocks and
sales records. The part of sales revenue corresponding to recovered costs
would be deposited in the bank account for the respective revolving funds
(drugs or feed). If progress is satisfactorv at the time of the mid-term
review the project would finance BIE facilities at Kiffa.



- 19 -
65.       A Supervisory Committee would be established under the chairman-
ship of the Ministry of Rural Development. The committee would include a
representative of the Minister of Finance, a representative of the Minister
of Plan and the Secretary General of the National Association of Livestock
Owners. The committee would oversee the transfer to the Livestock Fund of
the special mark-up on BIE's sales and the use of these funds and those of
the treasury account (para 50). It would approve the accounts of the BIE
and of DNE and would deliberate on the budget proposal for the use of the
Livestock Fund prepared by the Livestock Department for submission for the
approval of the Minister of Rural Development.
66.       Livestock Fund.  BIE would deposit revenue for the Livestock Fund
in a special bank account in a commercial Bank in Nouakchott under the
joint signature of the Director of Livestock and the Financial Controller.
The revenue from the Special Import Fee would be deposited in a special
treasury account. Money from these two accounts would be transferred to
DNE for use for agreed purposes against periodic budgets prepared by DNE,
approved by the Minister of Rural Development and agreed upon by IDA.  The
funds would be audited as part of DNE's annual audit.  Creation of the
Livestock Fund and the introduction of the import fee would be a condition
of project effectiveness.
67.       The Pastoral Cooperative Associations.  The associations would be
organized in accordance with the Law of Cooperatives of July 18, 1967.
They would come under the responsibility of DNE and the Department of
Cooperatives of MDR. The associations would be granted land use rights in
accordance with the Law on Land Ownership of June 5, 1983 and its imple-
menting regulation of January 19, 1984.
68.       A mid-term review would be undertaken by Government at the latest
2 1/2 years after effectiveness and the report submitted to IDA for dis-
cussion with a supervision mission within four months. The purpose of the
review would be to determine: (a) the progress of establishment of pastoral
cooperative associations and the estimated rate of future establishment;
(b) the viability of all parts of the project; (c) BIE's performance and
the need for construction of BIE facilities at Kiffa; and (d) the results
of the systems studies and the implication for the project design.
69.       The report shall assess the project's performance with respect to
the   following  goals   that   the   Government  has   set   for   itself:
i) establishment of 5 pastora' cooperative associations; ii) a total
revenue for the Livestock Fund from sales of drugs and animal feeds of not
less than 16 million UM (US$200,000); iii) completion of reorganization of
training at ENFVA and starting the training of the Mauritanian Director of
Studies; iv) completion of 3 field stations, rehabilitation of 6 existing
ones and of all crushes; v) financing of 5 production improvement projects;
vi) commencement of the construction of the Abattoir; and vii) commencement
of the study on existing livestock production systems.
Recurrent Costs and Cost Recovery
70.       The project would have only a marginal impact on Government's
recurrent expenditure.  During project implementation, beneficiaries and



- 20 -
foreign assistance will finance all incremental operating costs.   Upon
project completion, the financially autonomr's BIE and the Nouakchott
abattoir would be financially self-support'Aig as a result of full cost
recovery.  Field services, as well as the Animal Production Division of
DNE, would be fully financed by beneficiaries through cost recovery
measures. Training would require about UN 3 milli)n per year (base cost)
in incremental operating expenditure which will be borne by the Government.
This, however, would be more than offset by about UM 10 million per year in
savings on veterinary drugs and vaccines previously purchased by Government
and  distributed  free  of  charge.   The  following  table  summarizes  the
financing of operating costs during and after project implementation.
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 +
(1M mil1m)
Beneficiarisp 1/            -     10.5    13.8    17.2   20.4   22.0
Cost recovery BIE           -      0.9     1.9      2.8    3.7    3.7
Gorerrmnt                   -       -        -       -       -    3.0
Foreign Assistarxe        36.8    25.3    21.0    15.4   11.3       -
I/ Consists of the 15 perent mark-up by BIE and the Special Import Fee on private sector imports.
Benefits
71.       Project benefits are of four types:
(a)  improved knowledge and understanding of the livestock sector
and a start of better resource management by establishing
pastoral cooperative associations;
(b)  elaboration of a development plan for the livestock sector
and the preparation of follow-on projects;
(c)  institutional  and  structural  reform,  particularly  with
respect to the financing of public livestock services and
the removal of price distortions; and
(d) increased production.
72.       Profound structural changes are needed to put the sector on a
sustainable  basis.   Systems  studias  (composition  of  individual  herds,
ownership, herd movements, grazing rights, and most importantly, the
economics of animal husbandry for various types of individual herds) wou'Id
be an important project benefit. They would form the basis for a policy
discussion on the future of animal husbandry in Mauritania and would lead
to a development plan, which would give direction to the sector. In this
connection, the experience to be gained from the experiment with the
pastoral associations is most important.
73.       The project would  also bring about  institutional  reforms by
strengthening public services in the sector.  Systematic application of
full cost recovery for drugs, vaccines, feeds and services performed by the



- 21 -
regional livestock services, would make public livestock services less
dependent on scarce budgetary resources and would therefore prolong
benefits  beyond  the  project  implementation  period.   The  systematic
application of full cost recovery is likely to bring about some structural
adjustments. Because livestock owners would have to pay the full financial
cost, some marginally profitable herds may be discontinued.
74.       Incremental production would be ach'eved through better animal
health coverage and emphasis in extension work on improved production
techniques and resource management.  With regard to the animal health
coverage, there would be positive benefits even at sub-optimal levels of
efficiency. While no firm data support t?e claim, these benefits may be
even larger in times of drought and feed shortages when there are more weak
animals. Production themes to be disseminated by the DNE would address
critical aspects of the system (feeding, culling, pasture information,
support for herds stranded by feed shortages). Pending the project's long
term effects on resource management, it can only assist in the short term
by making feed available in the field (at full cost) to help herders
overcome immediate problems.
Economic Justification
75.       The  uncertainties  and  risk  surrounding  the project make  it
difficult to calculate an exact economic rate of return. However, it is
possible to estimate the incremental production needed to obtain a
sufficient rate of return. This has been done by taking into account only
the value of the incremental meat production, assuming that the incremental
production will result in higher off-take and not in an increase in herd
size. It has also been assumed that project benefits would accrue over 20
years and that only 25 percent of the benefits would be realized in PY 1,
50 percent in PY 2, 75 percent in PY 3 and that the full amount of benefits
would be obtained only beginning in PY 4. Under these hypotheses, the
project would show an economic rate of return of more than 10 percent, with
incremental production due to project activities of some 7,600 tropical
livestock units (TLU) per year, which seems a very modest goal since it
represents only 0.4 percent of the domestic herd. A sensitivity analysis
shows that the project is not particularly sensitive to variation in the
duration of project benefits.  For instance, if the duration of project
benefits is reduced from 20 to 10 years, the incremental production
required for a 10 percent ERR increases only from 7,600 to 8,500 TLUs per
year.
Risks
76.       The  project  entails  considerable  risks.   The  formation  of
pastoral associations is a pilot activity, and although examples of success
in similar efforts do exist elsewhere (Niger), it is not at all certain
that it will be successful in Mauritania, where the socio-economic and
political situation is different.   The studies component would in all
likelihood provide the expected insight into the sector, but it is not
certain that this will result in a viable development plan and/or follow-up
projects, since the results of the studies and analyses would become
irrelevant if the sector's very existence were to be threatened by



- 22 -
inadequate rainfall. The anticipated incremental production may not be
realized if rainfall does not resume at a suff icient level. If rainfall
continues to diminish, animal husbandry vill become impossible and the
greater part of the investment would be lost. Production might also be
compromised by unexpected resistance from livestock owners to the project's
cost recovery principles. Since some livestock owners are politically very
powerful, their resistance might affect Government motivation regarding the
project. To minimize this risk, a special PPF was approved to allow the
DNE to take action (repair of vaccination crushes) and to extend the
project idea to livestock owners. The mid-term review provides assurance
that emerging problems can be dealt with At an early stage. These risks
must be assumed, however. Failure to impfement the project would simply
mean abandoning the sector to its current downward spiral. The further
destruction of the production potential of the subsector vould undermine
the living standards of a rural population which is already virtually
destitute. In the longer term, the removal of price distort'.ons and the
beginnings of some order in the subsector, so that the necessary
adjustments concerning feed resources and herd size can be made, are
necessary if the sector is to be put on a sound footing.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive
Directors of the Association approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 9, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-.23 -                                           Page lof 6
namIranIa             - goCILa t          WA
m                        (u Uo IT UUNA 2
1ot        iiL   usnma!Atk        amCa s. or us          . anic  & WTur
- cuinm. oo
TOT.L                            1030.7      1030.7     1030.7
ARICULTURAL                       395.1      393.3       394.G
W  P-   CA       (3NO)                 ..         ..        00.0             1003.4                   1134.9
(uLohUh  OF 0 on. QUtV"Alr)       12.0      114.0       133.0             31.5                    023.9
POvtWanm.et-um (?lushs)    961.0           :7.:7.s     1021.0                .                       ,
UUa POPLATION (0  TOWAL)            3.4       12.8        25.3              32.0                    49.0
PopmATono PRo3zcrioNS
POPUAJTION INTZ  20DO (HILL)              ,
STATIOA P0?UL OU1   (MILL)                              8.0
POPULAITOM NITI.M .6
POPULATION OuSnlY
PER SQ. M.                        1.0        1.2         1.6              03.1                    374
PM  SQ. M7. AGR. LAND             2.5        3.1        4.0              124 8                   470.1
POPUILATIOSI at STRUCTURE Ci)
0-14 TRS                        43.9       45.3        43.5              43.0                    43.3
1544 U                           53.3       51.9       33.2               31.5                    53.0
65 AND ASOVE                      2.6        2.7         3.2               1.7                     3.3
POPULATIO GROH RAlr (Z)
TOrAL                             2.2        2.2         2.2               2.9                     2.8
URBA                             10.3       15.5         6.0               .1                     4.4
CUDE  UIRTH RATZ (P  n TS)         4.6        44.1       43.0               4.O                     40.0
CUDM  OLRUI RATE (In1 T1OIS)       27.1       23.9         6.5              15.0                    11.3
CROSS RPRODDCrTON RAt               z.9        2.9        3.0                3.2                     2.8
FAMLY PLANAN
ACCEPTORS. maL CIRUS)
USRS CZ or MRD VEN)               ..         ..          I.0              6.                      21.4
FOD mm 02rrm
IND7X OP FMOO P1. PE CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     107.0      102.0       06.0              02.9                    95.1
PE CAPrIA SUPPLY OF
CARIES (0 OF RUQUDNTS)          100.0       89.0       105.0             9S.5                    110.2
PROrTINS (GRAMS FIL DAY)        6U.0        76.0       81.0               55.4                    n7.3
of rJUl0 ANIMAL AMD PULS        50.0       48.0         4.0 ic           16.5                    11.8
CaL0 (ACS 1-4) DEATH RATE          45.2       36.8       20.0               16.0                    12.
Ln zxPccT. AT BIT  CTEARS)         38.7       42.4       45.6              52.0                     57.6
znAXrr ma R. L (PIM TOUS)         184.3      161.5      134.0             108.3                     90.6
ACCESS TD Sain MAER (20oP)
TOL                                         17.0        84.0 id           42.4                    07.2
U                                 ..        98.0         .0 7;i           67.5                    93.A
RURAL                             ..        10.       86.0 7             35.S                     45.8
ACCESS TD ECRETA DISPOSAL
t2 Of POPULATION)
OTAL                                         ..          1.0 Id           26.9                    43.9
URAN                              .          ..         5.0               57.7                    63.0
RURAL                             ..         ..         ..               20.7                     26.
POPLATION PER PHUSICIA          40680.0    16030.0    14350.0 Jc         11791.7                  4331.0
POP. PER NUNIDIG PERSON          5490.0 /a  4530.0     20oSO  7T         2459.                    1643.0
POP. PER MOSVITAL gm
TOTAL                          4S30.0     2920.0     2610.0 it          981.1                    621.
URBAN                             ..       700.0      1310. 0           338.                     543.0
RUL                            5270-0 1.4f 3430.0    3710.0            4371.9                   25113
AMSSIONS PeR mwra  a                ..         ..         ..               27.2                     25.7
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOISEHOLD
TOML                              ..         ..
ass                      ..          ..         .                  ..
*DAL                              ..         ..         .                  ..
AVERSE No. OF PERSOUS/IoOW
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URM                               ..         ..
PERCZrIWAC OF VINRLLINCS WEINH RLCT.
TOTAL                             ..         ..
mOU                               ..         ..          .                 ..
URM                               ..         ..
RURAL,.                                      ......



-24-                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
lUllRtSANSA                                     -JOCSASOAL INCATR  DATAt mar
MAURlITANA                            uRPSN   GOUPS (VIIGI   AVERU) 
NOST                      CHOBT NEClIIT KTwU;A) /b
RUCENI           MDDLU EIIt              KIDDL INCOIIC
19,eL k     97.oLt ESYLtIAlb       APIUCA S. oV S5ARA   M. AuCA & MD  Cjj
ADJUSTED OM OLIS  RATIOS
PRIMAL :  TOTAL                    8.0        14.0        33.0 /d            55.7                     UY.8
HALE                    13.0       20.0        43.0 7d           100.0                     103.7
FEMALE                  3.0         8.1        23.0 7d            63.2                      U.2
SODNDAZY: oTAL                     0.4         2.0        10.0 /d            17.3                     42.9
MALE                    1.0         4.0        1b.O 7             25.0                     50.9
FEMALE                  0.0          ..         4.o 7             14.8                     34.6
VOCATIONL (2 OF SECODARY)            ..         12.5         4.5 /d             5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIARY                            20.0        24.D        41.0 /d           41.1                      29.7
SECONDARY                         17.0        24.0        25.0  L           25.5                      18.8
PnSSDcR CARS/THoUSAND POP            0.4         3.3         ..               20.8                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/TROUSAND POP        12.2        44.3        19.1             107.8                     175.9
TV IUCEIVRSJTKOUSAND POP             ..          ..          ..               20.8                      51.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAIL COENERAL
rITERESr) CIRCULATION
PER TROUSAND POPULATIOS             ..          2.3 /h      ..               16.4                      37.2
CENEMA ANNUAL  TrENDAI/CAPI          ..          ..          0.3 Ic            0.4                       2.4
TOrAL LABOR FORC ('m31us)          303.0       366.0       482.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   3.6         4.1        4.4               36:.2                     11.0
AGRICULTUE (PERCENT)              91.0        H8.0        b9.0 /d           !4.5                      42.4
INDUSITR (PERCENT)                 3.0         4.0         6.0 7di          18.3                      27.9
PARTICLPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             30.9        29.8        29.6               36.8                     26.2
MALE                              59.8        57.8        56.9              47.1                      46.2
FEMALE                             2.3         2.4         2.6              27.2                       5.8
ECOItIlC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.5         1.6         1.6               1.3                       1.8
ENDURE
PERCENT OF PUV5ATE NCOME
RECEVD  U
HIGHEST 5t OF WOSE1OLDS            ..
HIGHEST 20 OF IOUSEROIDS           ..
LOWEST 201 OF H0USEHOLDS           ..
LOwEST 4v1 OF HIOUShISIIS          ..
rous= 7wmmGoo
ESTIMTED ABSOLUIE POElRTY INIC
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..              590.7                     226.3
ItURAL                             ..          ..        110.0              75.3                     134.0
ESTIMTAED MATIVE POVERTY IlNE
LEvEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UREAN                              ..          ..        330.0 IR          545.6                     431.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        120.0             201.1                     326.0
ESIMTED POP.  ELIA ABSOLUTE
POVERY ElNCOE LEVEL CZ)
URA                                ....
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..                ..                       29.0
NOT AVAILABL
NOT APPLICAULE
N OT E S
/I  The group aeraess for each indicator are popelatinwetgbted arithmtcic nme.  Coverag  of contrte
among the Indicators depeod an availabilty oa data and La not uniform.
7b  Unless ocberxise noted, "Dats for 1960"   fer to ay year betwen 1959 and 1961-;  Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate between 1961 and 1983.
7C  1977; /d 1990: /. 1962;  If Government hoapital eatablishmente;  /a 1978; /b 1972.
JUNE. 1985



-25-                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
t DERNMCNS OF SOCtAL INDICATORS
Notes Although the data re drawn from sourcs generllyjudged the most authortative and reliable. it should idso be oted that they nitty not bemintenatonally
conparable because of the lack or stndaized deinitons nd concepts used by dEffcrent countnes in colecing the data. The daa are. nonetheless useful to
desrine order of _awtude. mndnte trends. and charactenze certan major dileleces between countries
The reference groups are III the same country group of the subject country and 2 I a country group with somewhat higher average incomne than the country
group of the subject country texcept for -High Inomne Oil Exporters group wherc-Middc Income Nonh Afnwa and Middle East is choen because of stronger
I  woo-cultural alllnitiesi. In the reference group data the averaps Are population weighted arithmetic means for each indicator and shown only whcn majornty
|ofthecountres gn a group has data for that ndicator Since the coverage ofcountrue among the indcators depends on the aailab.luty of data ands not unmform
caution must be exrcised in relating averges or one indicator to another. These averages are only useful in compainng the walue of one indicator at a time among
the counatr and referenm groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                              Crud  Birth Rate (perrhousad-Number of live btrths in the year
Total--Total surface area compnsing land area and tnland waters:    per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                           Crude Death Rate (per thosandj-Number of deaths in the year
Agricutural-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pernanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to   Genss Reprodurrimr Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow . 1960. 1970 and 19X2 data                               will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-vear averages ending
G%- PER CAPITA (US- GNP per capita estimates at current             in 1960. 1970. and 1983
market prccs. calculated by same conv ersion method as u;.,id       Fandly Pla caag-Acepteors. Annual frtasand)-Annual num-
Bank .4:1w, I1981-83 basisi; 1983 data-                             ber of acceptors of hrth-control devices unde auspices of national
ENERGV CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-- Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primain energy icoal and lignitc.         Fandly Plan     -Use  (percent oforried iej-The percen-
petroleum. ratural gas and hydro-. nucicar and geothermal elcc-     tage of narried women of child-beanng age who are practicing or
tnctty I in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita. 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraccption. Women
data.                                                         of child-beanng age are generaly women agcd 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptivc usage is measured for othcr age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     groups
Toral Pepoplion..Uid-Year (thousands--As of ulu  I . 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NLTRITION
and 1983 daita.
hndx of Food Prodacion Per Capita (1969-7) = W.) - Index of per
Urban Popwiaon (percent of total)  Rili. .41o uTban to total        capita annual production of all food commodtties. Production
population. different definitions olurban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculturc. Food commodities
abilit of data -mong countries. m960. 19711. and 19213 data.   include primary commodities (c.g. suprcane instead of sugarl
Populaio Ahocario                                                    which are edible and contain nutrients (c.g. coffee and tea are
Pku'atdamnr  re sar 2M),0- The projection of population for 2000.   cxcludedi: they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separatelv. Stanrtig with information on      vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population liv age and sex. fertilirt rates, mortality rates. and  lIestock products. Aggregate production of'each country is based
international migration in the hase tear I980. thee parameters      on national average produccr price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year interals on the hasis of generalized    I92 2 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary                  Per Capira Supply of Clories (Permen ofrequirenetsj-Com put-
Stauatmart  populatirn  Is one in whtch age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplics availabic in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneouslt remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I1. In such a population. the birth rate is  esclude antmal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to Ihe death rate, the age structure is also     food processing  and losscs in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the erowtth rate i zeru. The stationar  population    estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nornnal activity
size was estimated tin the basts of the proj-ted characteristics of  and health considering cnvironmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the .ear 21000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                          waste at household level: 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Populaxumn tlnmentun - 1 the tendenc foIr population growth to     Pr Caita Supply of Protein (,grats per day I--Protein content of
continue heyond the itme that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supplh of food per dav Net supply of food is dehned
achieved. that is. even .tler the net reproduction rate ha. reached  as above Requircments for all countries established bv USDA
inity The momentum  if A population in ihe year r is measured as    pro%ide lor minimunm allowances ol 60 grams of total proteon per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. gt,en the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be anima! protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Ppuli  DeAsity                                                      average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per s,q.km -Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                    Per Capi  Protein Suppl From ASNim  and Pairse--Protein supply
Per sq.km. agraciu/ural land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
Popuation .4ge Sructure (percent)--Children t0- 14 yearsl. work-    Chfi (ages l-4j Dearh Rate (per thousand) - Number of dcaths of
ing agef 15-64 yearsl, and retired 165 vears and over as percentage  children aged 1-4 vears per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  group in a pven year. For most developing countries data derived
from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Popuelation Growth *Rae (perrrenutoal-Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-61. 19h0-70, and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Populaion Growth Rate (perreu)_-arbaa--Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy at BiWh (years)--Number of vears a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-  26-                                      ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire:  Pupdlreacher Ratio - primary. anid secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Inat Mareat Itbe (per theuJnd)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding leves.
before reaching one year or age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
A      oe Safe War (percgt of pqtefiW)--otaL -*. awd           Pussauger Cars (per tkosand pop.uirnl)-Passenger cars cown-
nrual-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes trated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from proteted  Rade Receism  (per homnw(pepulaton)-All types of receivers
borehoLes springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respac-  ror radio broadcasts to general public per thousand or population:
cive populations. In ian urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years wben
located not more than 200 meters fromn a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect: data for recent years may
reasoble wihi  auonabk acml ss Of that house. In meral aroft   not be comparable since most countries abolished Licensing.
re;wnable access mould imply that tbe houswife or nmbembrs Of the TVRci    (e  om    polti) V  cvrsfrbada
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  to Reemle  (per   thousand populaoT  eceivers for broadcanst
an fetching the famnily's wae                                  to general public per thousand population excludes unlicensed TV
Accas fetchingedw fairtiD;escl wa tr aceds f pereceivrs in countnes and in years when remistration of TV sets was
Access to &cereta Disposal (percent of papidietion)-t4otal. urban,  in elEect.
and rual-Number or people (total. urban. and rural) served by  m          cph
exceta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  New   r C     i per ssepul )-Shows the avcr-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper.- defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devotcd primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daly- if it appears at least four times a week.
Popiaimv per Pkysician-Population divided by number of prac-   Ciema Amni AtenIdance per Cat per Yea-Based on the
using physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popain  perV Nrng Person-Population divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practcing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.   LABOR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                        LABOR FRCE
Populato per Hopial d-saealel. uran amd vuao1pulation          ,Totl Laboar Force (rt-Eusasconomically active poersons, in-
totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respeave  number of   cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding bousewives.
totaurbeds available inrpublicand private, generaland nuZmerd  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rchabiftaton centcrs. Hospitals arc estabEshments  vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
penranently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femal (percenrj-Femrale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. indude health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricaulre (percem)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. mnidwife. ctc.l  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data
of medical facilities.                                         Iadstry (perceani-labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admisions per HYospia Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Partipato Rate (percent)-,otaL  mwel. awfe-d--Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. mal. and female labor force
Aerae  Sie af Hosehold persos per Aousehold -tJotal urban.     ., percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
andr,wl-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Tbese are based on ILO-s
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population. and
may not be included in the household for staistical purposes.  tong time trend. A few estimnates are from national sources.
Aerge Nnuber of Persons per Room-tocal, urban. and rural-      Economic Dependency Rato-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over, to the working age population I those aged 15-64)
occupied conventional dwellings. rrspectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unorcupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percetage of Dwelings wiih Ertricly-forol. urban, ad rura-     Pertage of Total Disposable lmconw (both u cash ndm kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
rage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income-
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Ejrolbent Ratios                                     The following estimates are ver approximate measures of poverty
Pfmr wrv school - fotal. mole and female-Goss total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primarv level as percentages of  Esthted Absohste Pboerty Income Lee (US5 per capta)-arao
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income levd
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estnmared Retve Poverty Income Level (USS per capit-cwrban
education. gross enrollDmnt may excced 100 percent since some  and rura-Rural relative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countEr's standard pnmarv-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - tomal. male and female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Esthuaed Population Below Abselte Poverry *rcemr Leed (pea-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cent)-arban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are 'absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocarsanl Eroirlmen: rperceni of secoAdyj-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical. industriaL or otber programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-27-                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
GROSS NA!GtIWAL PRD I  9                                       L         OIlGMr t   in contant vrice)
ass min.                     1975-78 (kV.)  1979-61  1981
NP at Kartat Priem               6o        100.0                     .5        5.0      4.2
Gras DmatiLc Invesmnt            162.2      23.7                    52.1      33.8     13.7
Gross Natioal Sai               -743       -LO.9
Current Accont                  -18.3       27.5
Exports of Goods, 315            336.0      49.3                    -4.2     24.8      U.0
Imports of Coods, L1S            511.7      74.8                     2.6     1l.2      19
OUTPUT. LABOR FORC AND PM OUCZIvTz IN 983
Valu Added             Labor Force                V.A. Par Worker
USSlMln.    %          Wuo        %                  llSS        %
Agriculture            197.0      30.8         304.6      61.               67         48.1
lnduscry               182.3      28.5          42.9       9              4,249.4    316.2
Services and Uallocated 260.1     40.7          128.5     27              2.026.5    150.7
Tocai/Averge         639.7    100.0          476      100.0             1,343.9    100.0
CENIRAL GOVERNMENT FIJANC
UN tln.           Percent of GDP
1984           1981       1980-83 CAy.)
Current Receipts           10,296           22.3          16.B
current Editure           -10,4663          22.7          24.2
Current Baa                  -167             .3           7.4
Capital Expenditure          -725            1.6          15.6
overall BaLnce               -892            1.9          23.1
External Assistaxe (net)    5,353           11.6          23.2
MONEY. CREDIT AMD PRICES
1981     1982      1983     19B4.
(IliLlion UN Outzsanding end-Period)
MItuey end Quasi-Haney            9.430      9.245     10,085   U,000
Claims on Coverment                2,43.      4,609      5,142    5,142
Claims an Private Sector          11,263    11,832      12,942   14,500
(Peretages or Index lumber)
Honey and Quast-oney as % of CDP    23.8      24         23.4       23.8
General Prtce Indui (1980 - 100)    111.9    121.3      127.2      143.1
AnnuaL Percentag  Cnmues In:
General Price Inde                  11.9      8.4         4.9       12.5
Claims an Cwoeriamet                49.5     89.-        11.6        0.0
Claim on Privace Sector             11.7      5.1         9.4       12.0
Note: All conversion  to dollarw in this table ar at the aveage exchap rate
prevailing during the period coeo.
Septer, 1985



ANNEX I
28 -                                            Page 6 of 6
ThAD. PAYI)VS AMD CArTL nS
UALA   OF PAYIMKEW                                                                       IMINSX CX    (1981-84 Av.)
1973       1977         1982     1983      1986                           ISSHn.
(Million US)
Iran ore               145.0     52.2
fish Products          126.1     45.4
Esport of Good, NFS           3M.7        178.4        332.3    372.9    336.0   A11 Other Camodities    6.9          2.4
Imports of Good. NFS         -154.8      -373.6       -630.0   -617.0    511.7
Resource Gap (deficit  -)     -10.1      -195.3       -318.5   -244.L   -175.7          Total             278       100.0
Interest Payments (not)        -2.0       -24.6        -34.9    -38.6    -24.6
Worker. R's  ittmne            14.5       -27.6         -30.7    -23.0    -18.9
Other Factr Paymeuts (nt)       -5.1        3.5         18.1.     16.4      19.1
Net tranfera                   31.2       120.4         84.5      61.1     29.9   EXIEUiAL DEST, as of Deember 31, 1984
Belance on Currnt Account      -0.5      -113.6       -280.3   -22B.2   -170.2
USS min
Direct Foraip Investment        L0.3        4.4         14.9        .8      12.5   Publlc Debt, inc2. guarmteed         1,170.6
fet N & LI Borrowing            8.6        55.4         206.1    172.2      50.3   Ron/guaranted Private Debr
DiabursemeO                   (U.0)      (87.5)       (222.0)  (194.8)  (106.1)  Total Outstading and Disbursed        1,170.6
Amortization                  (-2.4)    (-32.1)       (-15.9)  (-22.6)   (46.8)
Capitl Grants                    8.4       13.6          31.0     18.5      47.0
Other Capital (net)            -14.2       -1.9  )                                 DM SERVIC7 RATIO FR 1984 I/
Other items n.ie.             -13.2       -0.9
Iacreas  In Officil Reseres (0)  -0.7    43.0           6S        44.3     45.8   Public Debt, incl. uaranteed          23.6
Non/Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstaading and Disbursed     23.6
Gross Official Reserve
(end year)                  43.7        56.6        125.5    134.5      98.7
Fuel and Related Materiala
;porta                     ..9
of which: Petrolem         .9       30.6          63.0    53.6       42.5
Exports                      -          -            7.1    20.8
of vhcb: Petrolem         -           -           7.1    20.8         ..       IRRD/I  LENDDC as of Novembr 31, 193A
UDS Million
RAZE OF EMCHASZ                                                                                                   IBRD      DMA
Outstanding and DisbursWd      57       66.4
USSl.OO - UK                 44.54       52.15        54.8      63.8      63.8   Undisbursed                      0       48.9
Ouststnding incl. Undisbarsed    57.0   125.3
1/ Ratio oE .-.bt servic  to exports of goods and non-factor service.
September, 1985



ANNEX II
-29-                                    Page 1 of 2
1lE SAT[ OF BAMK GBIP OPEL&TKZSIN MIYrLIE1
A. Stateenet of Bk  ons and Mk Credits
(as of Setedbr 30, 1985)
wmt (less came3latixu) 1
US$ lillImi
LIA  or                                                                       Bank   MA         Undisbursed
Credit Number   Year   BorLwr    Purw
Tco Lans and Ten Credits fully disbwsed                                      126.0   38.9           0.00
888-W 2i       1979   Mauritania  Urba and &Ral Devel        t                        8.0          0.46
1068    -       1981 Miritala T            Irra 15.0                                               3.65
1175-M          1982   Mauritania  Petrolen                                            3.0          1.33
1214-M          1982   Maritarda  Second &hcatim                                       5.7          2.70
1231-M          1982   Mauritania  Faorth Higt&y                                      4.0           2.97
1292-M          1982   mauritmxia  Second Techncal Assistance                         4.6           2.98
1414-W          1983   Mauritania  Sed Tecimial Assistme to                           8.1           5.0
3Rurl Sector
1567-M          1985   Miauritan:a  Piulic  FZerLre Tlical Asistance                 16.40         16.40
3/                            and RehabiUtatirm
1571i-1/        1985   Mauritania  Stl I Scale Irrigation                             7.50          7.50
1572-MA-        1985   Mauritania  Industrial and Artisan Developmt                   5.25          5.25
TlPAL                                                        126.0  116.45         48.24
of whch bas beea repai                                      72.0    2.26
Total nu  outstanding                                         54.0  114.19
Ahmont sold                 63.4
of Lhich has been repaid   63.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                54.0  114.19
Total undisbursed                                         0.00  48.24         48.24
1/ Prior to m.hag adjustnts.
2/ BeglMing with Credit 1068-W, credits have been denaniatsd in Special
Draing Righs. The dollar awmts In dtese colums represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiati:rs for the IiDA,  ts and the
dollar equaivlats as of March 31, 1985, for the undisbrsed amounts.
3/ Nt yet effective.
* The status of the projects listed in Part A is describ  in a separate report on all Bank IDA finacidal
projects in ematio, which is updated twice yearly acd crculated to the Thmctive Directors m April 30
and October 31.



ANNEX II
-30 -                                  Page 2 of 2
B. Stattent oE IE  T _si  (as of Sept*er 30, 1985)
Fiscal
Year            pr              of Ethzl,                               Lam          t    Total
1985      &Suul              A    g                                   u5 flo
Total Gross CLedts                                          1.2-       -       1.2
Less Cance3 lation,
Tezdiats, tepaymn.ts and Sal                                -         -
Total ctmitnmts now held by                                  -         -       -
I/ Please note that Inestnu Agemat has wt been sgiNed yet.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUPPLENENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare project:           2 years
Project prepared by:                     Government, Consultants and IDA
Identification:                          Follow-on to First Livestock
Project
Appraisal Mission:                       October 1983
Negotiations:                            October 1985
Planned date of effectiveness:           August 1986
Special Conditions
The Government has during negotiations provided assurances on the
following principal items:
(a)  Only bona fide cooperative associations formed by pastoral-
ists would benefit from the well construction and mainte-
nance program financed by the project (para 48);
(b)  the pastoral cooperative associations, once identified and
established, would be allocated legally enforceable grazing
and stockwater rights, including the right to deny access to
blocks of grazing which they wish to improve and which they
themselves are therefore not using (paras 47 and 67);
(c)  Government would undertake a mid-term review at the latest 2
1/2 years after credit effectiveness and submit the report
to IDA within four months. The purpose of the review is to
establish whether the project is to be continued, BIE has
progressed satisfactorily, the system studies have been
useful or any modification in project design is necessary
(para 68);
(d)    i) there would be no restriction on private domestic trade
in veterinary drugs and vaccines or animal feed other
than those pertaining to technical requirements and
quality control;
ii) BIE would charge, for all veterinary drugs and vaccines
and all animal feeds, full cost c.i.f. at place of
sale, plus a special surcharge averaging at least 15
percent of retail sales price;
iii) DNE would collect a special import fee from private
importers of veterinary drugs, animal feeds and feed
supplements amounting to 9 percent of the invoiced cost
of the imported items; and
iv) this surcharge would be deposited in a Livestock Fund,
and the special import fee in a special treasury
account the proceeds of both of which are to be used
for field operations of DNE against a budget to be
agreed upon by IDA (para 50);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) the Production Improvement Fund would only be accessible to
pastoral cooperative associations or, exceptionally and with
the approval of IDA, to well established groups of tradi-
tional pastoralists with no access to bank credit or other
kinds of rural development funds (para 55); and
(f) the abattoir would be operated on a commercial basis and
would charge fees allowing full cost recovery, including
depreciation and a profit element (para 56).
B.   Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  the  appointment  of  the  Project  Coordinator/Financial
Controller, the Commercial and Financial Director of BIE and
the Construction Engineer (para 63);
(b) the establishment of BIE and the creation of an appropriate
accounting system (para 64);
(c) the creation of the Livestock Fund and the introduction of a
special import fee (para 66);
*d) the establishment of the Range Management and Stockwater
Sections of the Animal Production Division of DNE (para 52);
and
Ce) the AfDF Loan Agreement and the OP1C Fund Loan Agreement
have been executed and delivered and all conditions prece-
dent to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals thereunder, except for the effectiveness
of the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled
(para 58).



MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(UN Million)                (USS Million)                       S Total
,--------------_-----    -----------------------    . Foreign            Base
Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total        Exchange      Costs
A, PASTORAL ASSOCIATIONS                       13.8      88.7   102.5       0.2        1.1     1,3            87          11
H. SYSTEMS STUDIES, MONITORING AND
PROJECT PREPARATION                        41.7       77.5   119.2       0.5        1.0     1.5            65          13
C. DISTRIBUTION INPUTS                         16.0     119.4   135.4       0,2        1.5      1,7           88          14
Ds STRENGTHENING OF LIVESTOCK SERVICES
MANAGEMENT                                 18.5       67.5    86.0       0.3        0.8     1.1            73           9
ANIMAL HEALTH                              77.9      106,9   184.8       1.0        1.3     2.3            58          19
ANIMAL PRODUCTION                          66.9       63.5   130.4       0.8        0.8     1.6            49          13
TRAINING                                   27,5       63.2    90.7       0.3        0.8     1.1            70           9
Sub-Total STRENGTHENING OF LIVESTOCK
SERVICES                           190.9     301.1   492.0        2.4       3.7      6.1            61         50
E. ABATTOIR                                    17.1      59.6    76.7       0.2        0.8     1.0            78           8
F. PPF                                            -      41.2    41.2         -        0.5     0.5           100           4
Total BASELINE COSTS                          279.4     687.5   966.9       3.5        8.6    12,1            71         100
PhyaLcal ContingencLes                       20.4       72.7    93.1       0.3        0.9     1.2            78          10
Price ContingencLes                         109.8      147.6   257.4       1.4        1.8     3.2            57          26
Implementation Delay Contingencies           64.0       64.0   128.0       0.8        0.8     1.6            50          14
Total PROJECT COSTS                          473.7      971.8 1,445.5       6.0       12.1    18.1            67         150
.a                 =^~                 mu.,mc             .--



SECOND LIVEStOCK PROJECt
Financing Pl an bY Suwiary Accounts
fusSl 0001
Nra-mNN. or
901            OPEC            IDA          IttA-TWD     NOtIARCMItO   ffIa-9N.       NSA-GOVt          totsl                     tocst
Amount    I    Mount   II  Amount    I    Mount  11   Mtount  I    mount   I    Amount  I               Monmt    I    for. Each.  Taunt)   Taxes
I. INVESIINNT COSTS
A. CIVIL WOKS ICHI                   1, 453.1  1 7.9    153.1A 22. 3       -      -   SOS.. 19.6 a                                 0.0  0.0   2.512. 2  14.0      1. 265.8  1.241. 4-
I. SIOCM  HATER DEVELOPHENI IHE)                  -         -    -1,410.1a 100.0.            ..                     ..1,470.5 6  . I                               1.UlLS     341. I 
C. EQUIIPMENTIlEQt                     495.1 100.0          -                        ----495.5   2.1                                                                 443.5     5tt            -
0. VEHICLES (Viii                      694.0  90.5       91.9  9.1         -                                                                     f-- -- -56.3   9,5  539.0     415           -
E. T.A. AND CONSUiLANTS ItAt           951. 1 29. 7    154. I 4.?7  2. 12.1?  81.1 ..                       ..                    .3.245.3  11. 0                 3.016.4    IN.!             -
F. STUDIES fill                             .                    -    62.2 100.0 .           .... 522                                                     4. 7      415.2    214.6            -
0. INPUtS JIMl                                        1   . 120.3 59.1            -                  39.56  tI         -         412.6  a Il   1.812.   6.5I       1,6810. 4    2. 4 
H. PROD. INPROVENENT FUND 1911         g0o. I100.0          -    -         .      -."0. I   1.@0                                                                     421.3    415. 6-
I. SEHOIARSHIlPS lIto)                 431.1 100.0          .                                                                                    431.7   2. 4       214.5    211.3 
J. REPAINENT pp P91  (91.                                              551.0, 100.0.                                                             111.0   2.52        115.0-
R. UNALLOCATED fUAI                    113.6   9 .4      51. 9  3.68  l.107, 3  596       -                                        0.0  0.0   I. 761. 9   5.1        9631.0    NO. 0-
total INVESTNMEN  COStS5 1211.1  31.95  2.000. 0 1.15  6. 511.6  44. 3   100.0  3. 4    39.9a  0.3                        -     . 412.5  3. 1  14.635.   1162. I    tI1. 165.15  3.11461.! 
II. RECURRNTN costs
EQUIPIWNI OPERAtION fEa)               64.0  215           -           64.0  23. 6             -       -     -    116.0 12.6a    0.0  0.0       316. 0   to        240.?7    111.3
VEHICLE OPERATION (VOl                164.8  26. I 1                  164.6  26. I                                302.6 47.9      0.0  0.0      632.3   3. 5       426.6    M0.6 I
LOCAL PERSONNEL tILP                  506.9  30.9                    5 06.5  30.1                                 629.9 36.2      0.0  0.0   1 647. 4   1.1I            -  1.647. 4-
NISCEtLANEOSJS (531                  270.1  41.3          -           10.1  45.3        -     -       -     -     1.    .        0.0  0.0      155.1   J.3        210.12   314.!           -
Total RECURRENT Costs                   1, 026.2  31.6         -    - . 02I. 2  31.1 I                              1.li.17136.4      0.0  0.0   3.233. 4  17.5         11751.6  32724.5
Total Olabursinant                       5. 300. 0  34.39  2. 000.0 II. I  1,500.0  42. I  600.0  2.6'   35.9  0. 'I  91. 116.1 S   452.6  2.!S  16.066.!1 100.0    12. 141. I 15.21. 4-
............................. .a...... . i .i   .  ...... sass..:.. ai..... ... .. .s   .SS.....St.t...53...i.. 55... ......553.5.isi   ..i.. ...i .......   sags:... .....t.............. tt



- 35 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
NEW TRENDS IN PASTORAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Introduction
1.        The approach to pastoral development has undergone considerable
change since the 1970s, mainly because earlier projects, geared p:e-
dominantly to top-down technical change, did not produce the desired
results.  Attention shifted towards new strategies;  several books have
appeared, workshops have been held, and the International Livestock Center
for Africa (ILCA) has undertaken an interdisciplinary study on three
selected Maasai Group Ranches in Kenya, the results of which are soon to be
published.   The  general  consensus  so  far  is  that:  (a)  development
interventions can achieve little without the participation of pastoralists;
and (b) the key to productivity is better resource management by the
livestock  owners  themselves.   Interventions  today  consist  mainly  of
investments to improve the quality of pastoral life: human and animal
health, stockwater conservation and development, and training for better
resource management.
2.        The potential for improving range productivity is limited.  The
technology  developed  in  Australia  and  the  United  States  is  very
energy-intensive and at present inappropriate for traditional livestock
production systems in Africa. Stock numbers must therefore be brought into
line with the carrying capacity of the range, which is being reduced by
expanding crop cultivation and decreasing rainfall. Better managewznt of
renewable resources on the communal rangelands represents a challenge.
Some measure of social and territorial organization must be instituted and
the responsibility of pastoral groups for their traditional grazing areas
recognized. Pastoral development has therefore become concerned with the
human resources and the idea of producer group participation has gradually
taken center stage.
3.        With the focus of development efforts moving from Government to
the livestock production system itself, the design of a project requires
prior knowledge of the priorities of those systems. If such knowledge is
scarce, part of a first project may be devoted to a study of the system.
Such a project would include a 3-year study of the sector, particularly the
economics of the production system.  It might also include provision of
infrastructure,  inputs,  animal health/services,  and staff training.   A
relationship of trust must be created between those doing the study and the
pastoralists, so that the latter can be intimately involved in the project
design.
4.        Inputs for animal health and production need to be made available
to  those  livestock  owners who  desire  them.   They  would  consist of
veterinary drugs and vaccines, animal feeds and feed supplements.
Veterinary drugs used to be free in Mauritania and in many other Sahelian



- 36 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 6
countries and hence tended to be scarce as pressure on the national budget
increased.   Import and  distribution networks  need  to be  reorganized.
Domestic distribution should preferably be done by the private sector under
the supervision of the Livestock Department. Where this is not possible,
an interim solution must be found by involving the public sector until
livestock  owners  are  sufficiently  organized  to  take  over.   Whenever
feasible, imports should also be handled by the private sector. However,
there are cases where, for reasons of quality control and technical
considerations, Government wishes this to be done by a public agency. If
this can be well organized (and satisfactory examples of this exist), this
should also be acceptable.
5.        Most Governments have a livestock department, generally in the
Ministry of Agriculture or Rural Development.  These were set up prior to
independence as regulatory services concerned only with animal health and
taxation. National livestock services in the future must be different.
While it is true that preventive vaccination against major epidemics will
still be required, this should no longer be the only or even main activity
of the department. Nor can the attitude of the extension agents continue
to be that of the regulator who orders the livestock owners around. The
new role of the livestock department and its agents will have to be that of
a collaborative advisory service whose operations are made possible by the
contributions of livestock owners and whose main occupation will be to
advise on the rehabilitation and maintenance of renewable resources such as
rangelands and stock water to inform the livestock owners about market
opportunities and to facilitate the transfer of animals and other products
to internal or external markets. To achieve this, all staff will have to
be retrained and gradually reoriented. Moreover, a much stricter technical
management of the department will be required to keep costs to a minimum.
6.        Training is important both for agents of the livestock department
and for livestock owners. This concerns not only training of new staff of
the department but also re-training of all in-service staff. Training of
livestock owners is required to make them understand the new approach of
the service, including the fact that in one way or another they are going
to cover the cost of all operations except personnel salaries.  Where
grouping of pastoralists into Pastoral Associations is achieved (see
below), training of the officials of these associations will be necessary.
Finally, livestock technicians will have to be trained in the management of
renewable resources for animal production (grazing and stock water) in
order to be able to advise the associations.
B.   Pastoral Associations
7.        The concept of the Pastoral Association (P.A.) is that groups of
pastoralists who normally live and move together should formalize this
interdependency by the creation of a legal association that can act for the
group in matters of credit and input procurement, and negotiate with other
P.A.'s and political/technical agencies of Government. The establishment
of the association would be undertaken by a team (sociologist, livestock
specialist and cartographer). The grazing lands of the group would be



- 37 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 6
identified, and the traditional rights of access by any third party would
be recorded.   Usufruct rights would then be allocated. subject to the
respect of the rights of third parties, in exchange for a commitment to
manage the grazing land in accordance with sound practices and the advice
of the Regional Livestock Service, which would have the responsibility for
extension and monitoring. Any third parties contesting the allocation or
wishing to register its rights to use the area would have to apply to the
local authorities. Once the group has been officially registered with the
local authorities, it would be eligible for credit or technical assistance
for stockwater development, i.e., extension advice, repair of existing
uells or the construction of new ones.
8.        The principle with respect to credit could be that the associa-
tion would first have to demonstrate its commitment by depositing a certain
amount (possibly 25% of the estimated cost of the investment). In the case
of a very large investment, e.g., a deep-well/storage well complex, the
deep well could be subsidized by Government, and the storage well financed
on  credit  once  the  downpayment  had  been  deposited.   For  smaller
investments, a Production Improvement Fund may be established which would
subsidize small rural works or firebreaks on condition that the group
provides a significant part of the cost in cash or kind.
9.        The goal would be to create associations incorporating 400-500
families (8-10,000 head of livestock) to facilitate administration. It is
not certain that such large groups would be easy to form, however. The
larger units would probably be more effective in representing the
pastoralists at the local and the national level, but they could only be
formed after both officials and members had benefited from extensive
training. On the other hand, larger group, may be more subject to internal
rivalries.   Only  experience  will  show what  is  the  optimal  size.  A
compromise might be the formation of several smaller associations (30-50
families) which are then consolidated into one large, registered and
officially recognized association.
10.       The group approach is facilitated by the fact that many Govern-
ments are now moving towards decentralization, with rural producer groups
now encouraged ro take responsibility for their own affairs. In sedentary
agriculture, this has led to greater importance of village groups, which
have responsibility for input distribution, credit and sometimes marketing
of their production.  This change of attitude is partly due to national
budgetary pressures.
I1.       As far as resource management goes, the risks associated with
pastoral associations are that the allocated grazing areas may be
overstocked by the associations and might suffer degradation. In theory, a
group that is not respecting the contract could be evicted, but this would
not be so easy in practice. There is also a social risk involved, in that
traders and politically influential people might form associations in
better areas and around wells, thereby discriminating against the small
livestock owners. Finally, there is the risk that the credit may not be
repaid once the stockwater has been provided. Traditional pastoralists are



- 38 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 6
generally known as reliable debtors in their own environment, but they may
not be able to handle institutional credit the same way.
12.       The World Bank is presently involved in financing two projects
involving pastoral groups: one in Niger (Projet Elevage Centre-Est Cr.
885-NI of March 1979) and one in Mali (Operation de l'Elevage Mopti (ODEm)
Cr. 538-MLI of May 1985). Nearly a hundred groups have been formed under
the Niger project  (Groupes Mutualistes  Pastorales  (GMP)).   Each  group
consists of 30-50 families who work together and often have the same chief.
Five pastoral centers have been constructed to serve as outposts for the
technicians from the Livestock, Human Health and Adult Literacy Services
and for seconded officials from the Cooperative Service (UNCC). Unfortu-
nately, the severe drought of 1983-84 has delayed the start up of the
centers.
13.       In Mali, a major study was carried out by the International
Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) under contract to the ODEM  project in
the Niger Delta. The project is now engaged in the formation of the first
associations, an activity to be continued under the follow-on Mopti Area
Development Project.  In an early experiment, an association was formed
around a borehole fitted with a solar pump and a contract was drawn up.
For six months the arrangement worked very well until the pump ceased to
function, thus preventing  the full experience  from being gained.   The
associations would primarily be developed by the Mopti Area Development
Project in two locations on about one 1 million hectares of grazing land
which were underutilized because of the absence of stock water.   The
formation of associations would therefore be paired with stockwater
development and the allocation of dry season grazing.  In Niger, on the
other hand, all GMPs are based on existing traditional groups and the
Government has not yet made a decision on the subject of allocation of
usufruct rights; consequently, stockwater development has yet to take place
there.
14.        The dynamics of change in the livestock sector should not be
underrated. Ownership of livestock, and especially of cattle, is shifting
from the traditional pastoralists to the cultivators who used to be their
client/customers (or even former slaves) and to the modern absentee owner,
who might get a higher yield from livestock than from a bank and also
obtain great satisfaction and prestige from being a cattle owner.  One
might even eventually envisage a much diminished pastoral population
entrenched in the uncultivatable arid and semi-arid zones and surviving the
dry season either by grazing crop residues or actually importing feed or
by-products from the agro-industries. At the same time, the mono-culture
farmer would have become a mixed farmer, rotating fodder and cereal crops
in order to maintain his livestock production for consumption and surplus
sale. The absentee owner may disappear for several reasons: (a) it would
become harder to find free grazing or wells which were not appropriated by
a group; (b) investment possibilities would become more attractive than
owning cattle; and (c) Government policies would actively discourage this
form of capital shelter in order to protect renewable resources and the
rural producer.



- 39 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 6
15.       In summary, therefore, the pastoral association is the logical
alternative at this stage, if we discard high-energy solutions as too
costly.   However appealing and logical,  however,  it is not a proven
intervention and may not materialize, especially if it is not fully
understood or accepted by politicians.  But it coincides with a drastic
change in government policy from centralization to village and group
self-management  and  with  the  appearance  of  well-trained  national
professionals with sufficient insight and motivation to implement the
concept.  Finally, after a decade of low rainfall, pastoralists re.lize
that isolation and inactivity do not get them anywhere. They seem to be
ready to try anything that promises to improve their situation. Therefore,
the concept of pastoral associations should be tried but it should be
closely guided to avoid failure due to administrative weakness rather than
to any intrinsic weakness of the concept.
C.   Establishment of Pastoral Associations under the Project
16.       This component was given high priority in the preparation docu-
ment and it may eventually become the most important component in pastoral
development in Mauritania.  The appraisal mission agreed with Goverment
however, that there were too many imponderables regarding the pastoral and
agro-pastoral production systems and that an experimental approach would be
more prudent.
17.       The cattle herds of Mauritania are owned by three main groups:
(a) traditional Maure pastoralists; (b) Maure traders and Government
officials who, since the great drought in 1972, have increasingly tended to
purchase cattle from traditional producers and have established large "new
herds" often herded by the former owner who has become a salaried herdsman;
and (c) the traditional Peul agro-pastoralists (Fulbe diesi et Fulbe wale)
who,  although  they have  been  in  the  country  a  long  time,  have  no
traditional rights to land but are instead purchasing access to land from
the Maures. It is not certain who owns the largest part of the national
herd, but indications are that the traditional Maure pastoralists own a
small percentage perhaps 2s low as 20% and that the two other groups share
the rest about equally.
18.       Production system studies w:ll bring improved understanding of
what  is going on.   The  low-cost  traditional  system of production  is
threatened with  extinction.   Whatever  new  system  emerges  will  almost
certainly have higher costs.  Such a system is also unlikely to be the
result of a natural "free market adjustment", since political forces are
clearly at work in the sector. The establishment of pastoral associations
may therefore be the only means by which the traditional pastoralist
systems can survive to some extent - by organizing into self-sustaining
groups usufruct rights to their traditional grazing lands, collective
responsibility for their own economy including the improvement of their
grazing lands, and access to credit that would restore cattle ownership to
viable households in the associations and thus maintain the viability of
the group in the face of competition.



- 40 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 6
19.       The  establishment  of  pastoral  associations  demands  thorough
preparation consisting of a detailed socio-economic survey of the area,
pasture inventory, and assessment of stockwater points and traditional
rights. The survey team establishes contact with other pastoral groups in
the area and starts a dialogue with them,  culminating in the general
assembly which  formally  establishes  the  association.   The  survey  and
establishment are carried out by an interdisciplinary team of Mauritanian
professionals (a sociologist, a pastoralist and a cartographer) assisted by
a consultant in anthropology and economics.
20.       Experience so far shows that the first groups to be identified
normally consist of 30-50 families and their livestock. It would probably
take ten such groups to form an association of the desired size. Each of
these ten pastoral groups should be formally established and given training
in the new role, as well as the opportunity to handle a small revolving
fund for basic supplies (tea, sugar and grain) before their consolidation
into an association is attempted.
21.       Once  the  association  is established,  responsibility  for its
day-to-day servicing is transferred to the nearest regional livestock
center which requests from the department the necessary extension service
(pasture management, stockwater development and housing) and assists with
the provision of veterinary drugs and animal production inputs for sale.
22.       Each group will employ an agent selected from the group itself.
This agent will receive basic training in veterinarv first aid from the
veterinary station and will become the contact between the group and the
nearest regional center.  Once the association is formed, its needs in
terms of pasture management and stockwater development will be assessed
through joint visits by the stockwater and range management officers from
the animal production division. The animal production officer would visit
to advise on the use of minerals, feeds and feed supplements. The associa-
tion could buy inputs directly from BIE and would receive a commission on
sales to be used mainly for paying the agent, but also to establish a
common fund for maintenance of wells and other structures.



AA Logllr              INCHIRI     /               \l Si                                                               SrCOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
>   $ ceaotb '   ,      /           >   .          ~~~~~~~~~~~~A D;R A R  A D R A R                              41- I "A _. 11m 
s .s  /          --\  /-'    <           1 sS           1 ~~~~~~~~AG6A N T                 --->   z w1C
/    /   \   -   S   j  oG  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"E
TRAR~/;y/oZAGsl
ATLANT[__                      ,,t/                          1 ,,                                                       .,   ,, =U
<  f    ZE~~~~~~RAN
OC_ :EAN            f                                                                                                                                   AR 
1~ ~ ~~D~cW



