Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA /? G4iS- 4@c
Reprt No - 5720-AU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
January 13, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENqCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =Ougujyas (UN)
US$L0                 -          U'  80
UK 1 mIIlion          -         US$ 12,500
SYS     OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRC
Metric                           British/US Equivalents
1 Meter (n)                     3.28 feet
1 Kilogram (kg)                 2.20 pounds
1 Metric ton (=t)               0.98 long tons
I Hectare (ha)                  2.47 acres
I KUiometer (k1)                0. 62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF      AfricaTn Development  Euld
BIE       Bureau des Iutrants pour RElevage
(Livestock Input Service)
CBPP      Contageous Bovine PleuroPneumonia
CNERV     Centre National d'Elevage et de Recherche
V-trinaire (National Livestock Research Center)
DNE       Direction Nationale de 1l'Elevage (Livestock
Department)
ENFRV    Ecole Nationale de Formation et Vulgarisation
Rurale (National Training and Rural Extension
School)
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations
FED       Fonds Europ&en de Developpement (European
Development Fund)
FND       Fonds National de Developpement (National
Development Fund)
IER       Institut d'Economie Rurale (Rural Economy
Institute)
MDR       Ministere du Developpement Rural (Ministrv of Rural
Development)
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PHARMARIM Societe Mauritanienne de la Commercialisation des
Produits Pharmaceutiques (Mauritanian
Pharmaceutical Marketing Company)
SOMECOB   Societe Mauritanienne de la Commercialisation du
Betail (Mauritanian Livestock Marketing Company)
SOHALIDA  Societe Mauritano-libyenne pour le Developpement
Agricole (Mauritano-Libyan Agricultural Development
Company)
SONADER   Societe Nationale de Developpement Rur:'l (National
Rural Development Company)
TLU       Tropical Livestock Unit
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January I - December 31



FOR OmCIL USK ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SEOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P.e
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FLE ...............................   iii-iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKAR                           Y ........................................  v-vil
I.  BACKGROUND ...................................................       1
A.   Introduction ............................................      1
B.  Country Characteristics .................................       I
C.   The Resource Base.......................................       2
D.  The Economic Setting ........................3.--......-        3
E.  Agricultural Sector Issues and Strategy .................       4
UI. THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR .....................................       6
A.   Background ..............................................      6
B.  Production and Markets ..................................       7
C.   The Institutions ........................................      8
D.  Livestock Projects .......................---.-........         9
III. THE PROJECT ..................................................     10
A.  Project Objectives ......................................      10
B.   Summary Description .....................................     12
C.  Detailed Features .......................................      13
1.  Establishment of Pastoral Cooperative Associations.       13
2.  Systems Studies, Monitoring and Preparation
of Follow-On Projects .,                                 15
3.  Distribution of Production Inputs. .     .........       16
4.  Strengthening of Livestock Services ..........           18
5.  Production Improvement Fund ........................     22
6.  The Nouakchott Abattoir ............................     23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October
1983 which consisted of E. Nagele (Economist), 0. Bremaud, Y. Paugam,
C. Marmignon, L. Anthoserre (consultants) and P.A. Sihm (Livestock
Specialist and Mission Leader). The data were updated by post appraisal
missions by Messrs. P. Sihm, E. Niagele and G.M. de Wit. The report was
edited by Michale Moriarty and processed by Estelle Lalande and Jacques
Bourgoin.
IThis doczuent ha. a ruticmd disftibtimonad may be used by recipient onl n fth perfornu.nc of 
theidr atiie duti Its mono many not odhewis be dislosd without Wold Dank autorzaton



-ji-~~~~~~~~~
IW. 1COT AUD FINANCIG .......................                           23
A. Project Costs .............                                     23
B.  Financing Pln ............                                     25
C. Procurement .................                                   26
D. Disbursen  et                                                   29
E. Accounts, Audit and Reporting    .             .29
V. OAGANIZATION D MANAGcE,ENT .                                         30
A.  Project Implementation and Present Status of Project           30
B. Input Distribution .31
C.  Livestock Fund ..........................................      32
D.  The Pastoral Cooperative Assciations .32
E.  Training ...........................,,,,,,.                    33
VI. FINANCIAL RESULTS .33
VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RSK .34
A. Benefts .34
B.  Economic Justification ..................................      35
C.  Risks...................................................       36
VIII.ASSURANCES AND RECOMENDATIONS .37
ANNEXES
1-1      New Trends in Pastoral Development
1-2      Legal Aspects of Pastoral Cooperative Associations
2       Budget of the Directorate of Livestock and Regional Livestock
Services
3-1      Systems Studies, Monitoring and Project Preparation
3-2      Livestock Input Distribution Unit
3-3       Strengthening of Livestock Services - Field Staff Numbers and
cost
3-4      Investments in Infrastructure and Buildings
3-5      Investment in Vehicles, Cold Chain and Veterinary Equipment
3-6      Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
3-7      Terms of Reference of Financial Director of BIE
4-1      Estimated Disbursement Profile of IDA Credit
4-2      Total Project Costs by Project Component
4-3      Project Components by Year
5-1       Flowchart of Livestock Services
5-2       Project Implementation Schedule
6        Projections of Revenue for the Livestock Fund and Special Import
Fee
7        Economic Analysis
IBRD No. 18303: Mauritania - Veterinary Installations



£ *
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF  NRTNI&
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
A.  Report and Studies Related to the Sector                            Code
1.  Resource Inventory of Southwestern Mauritania:  Geology,
Soils, Forestry, Pasture, Remote Sensing Institute,       221.904
South Dakota State Unlversity; 1982.                      (Al)
2 vols
2.   Projet RAMS, "Mission d'Etudes et d'Evaluation du Secteur
Rural et des Ressources Humaiues", Checchi and Company,
Louis Berger International, Action Programs International;
1979                                                      221.904
(A2)
3.  "La Culture et la societe pastorale maure dans une
dynamique de diveloppement", Giancarlo Castelli Gattlnara,
El Joud ould Saleck, Abmed Aidara, FAD; June 1979.        221.904
(A3)
4.   "L'Agropastoralisme en Mauritanie - Perspectives de
Recherche, IEMVT; 1983.                                   221.904
sA)
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.  "Renforcement du service de l'elevage et formation"'       221.904
Document de travail, 0. Bremaud; 1983.                    (B1)
2.   "Etude de l'organisation de la direction de l'elevage",  221.904
Yves Paugam & Cie FIDU S.A.; 1984.                        (B2)
3.   "Hydraulique pastorale", L. Authoserre; October 1983.    220.918
4.   "Projet de financement pour un projet de developpement
de 1'glevage dans le Sud-Est mauritanien - Tome II:
Dossier de presentation des op6rations preconisees',      221.904
SEDES; February 1981.                                     (B4)
5.   "Projet d'abattoir pour la ville de Nouakchott",          221.904
Sid'ahmed ould Kenkou; August 1983.                       (B5)
6.  "Projet pilote d'inventaire et de surveillance continue
des ecosystemes pastoraux saheliens", ISRA, Bulletin      221.904
d'information No. 2; Juillet 1983.                        (B6)
7.   "Second projet de developpement de l'elevage:  Rapport
de preparation", BDPA; January 1983.                      129.171
C.   Selected Staff Working Papers
1.   Project Performance Audit Report: Mauritania
Livestock Development Project, Credit 273-MAU, OED;
November 21, 1980.                                     CR 273-MAU



-iv-
2.   Livestock Development II - Training Component.            221.904
D. Gooday; December 1984.                                 (C2)
3. "Distribution des produits pharmaceutiques et
biologiques veterinaires et des aliments de betail
par le Bureau des Intrants pour l'Elevage.                221.904
(C3)
4.  MAD/Proposed Second Livestock Project: Legal Aspects.
Note to Files. Rudolf van Puymbroeck. July 30, 1984.   (C4)



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Beneficiaries:      Livestock Owners forming Pastoral Cooperative
Associations (PCA); Livestock Department (DNE); and
Manicipality of Nouakchott.
Credit Amount:      SDR 7.2 million (US$ 7.6 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:    Borrower to DRE as a grant.
Project Objectives
and Description:    The proposed project seeks to slow the deterioration of
the grazing areas and to boost productivity by making
groups of pastoralists responsible for allocated
grazing areas, by providing better services and
production inputs, and by increasing the knowledge of
livestock   production   systems   essential   to   the
formulation of a develop=ent policy and to the planning
of future interventious. Main project components are:
(a) a pilot component for the establishment of pastoral
cooperative associations; (b) the study of livestock
production   systems,  project  monitoring  and   the
preparation of projects; (c) distribution of production
inputs for sale to livestock owners; (d) strengthening
of livestock services; (e) estabJishment of a Livestock
Fund and a production improvement fund; and (f)
constructior of a small abattoir in Nouakchott.
Benefits ard Risks: All project beneficiaries are livestock owners who
would receive better public livestock services. Those
livestock owners who form pastoral associations would
benefit from the allocation of grazing rights, thus
gaining an incentive and the possibility to introduce
improved  resource management.   Better  knowledge  of
production systems would facilitate the adoption of a
coherent livestock development policy, and the cost
recovery procedures would lead to a nore  efficient
livestock  service;  both would  eventually result  in
better resource management and higher productivity.
The project entails considerable risks, however. The
diminishing rainfall experienced in recent years could
prove to be part of a secular downward trend, in which
case the livestock subsector would have to be based on
camel and goat production and on producer subsistence,
as opposed to production for market. The pastoral



-vi-
associations   may  not  proliferate   and   resource
management may therefore not be introduced. Livestock
owners, who have considerable political power, may
resist cost recovery, without which livestock services
would  remain at their present level of operation.
These risks are judged acceptable, however, given that
failure to intervene in the subsector entails the much
higher risk of further deterioration in the subsector's
potential and a continued decline in the rural standard
of living.
Estimated Project Costs (net of identifiable taxes and duties) a/:
Local          Foreign        Total
SS$ million
Pastoral Cooperative Associations        0.2              1.1           1.3
Systems Studies and Monitoring           0.5              1.0           1.5
Distribution of Production Inputs        0.2              1.5           1.7
Livestock Services:
Management                            0.3              0.8           1.1
Animal Health                         1.0              1.3           2.3
Animal Production                     0.8              0.8           1.6
Training                              0.3              0.8           1.1
Abattoir Construction                    0.2              0.8           1.0
PPF Advance                               -               0.5           0.5
Base Costs                               3.5              8.6          12.1
Physical Contingencies                   0.3              0.9           1.2
Price Contingencies                      1.4              1.8           3.2
Implementation Delay Contingencies       0.8             0.8            1.6
Total Project Cost                       6.0             12.1          18.1
Proposed Financing Plan
IDA                                      1.6             6.0            7.6
AfDF                                     3.1              3.2           6.3
OPEC                                      -               2.0           2.0
Government/Livestock Owners              1.3             0.9            2.2
TOTAL                          6.0            12.1           18.1
a/ Amounts may not add up to totals due to rounding.
Estimated Disbursement:
FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93
US$ million
Annual           1.7     1.3     1.4     1.3      1.1     0.6     0.2
Cumulative       1.7     3.0     4.4     5.7     6.8      7.4     7.6



-vii-
Econonic Rate of Return: No rate of return has been calculated. However,
the economic analysis shows that the incremental production required to
obtain a satisfactory economic rate of return of no less than 10 percent is
well within the bounds of prudent expectations.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5720-MAU.
Map: IBRD 18303
WAPAC
January 13, 1986



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      A First Livestock Project, financed by the Government and IDA,
was implemented during 1972-78 at a cost of US$5.9 million (Credit
273-14AU). The project, which was confined to the 4th, 5th and 6th regions,
dealt primarily with well rebabilitation and maintenance (US$4.0 million),
but also contained some animal health activities (US$1.0 million),
construction of firebreaks (US$0.7 million) and consultants services
(US$0.2 million). The present Project was identified in December 1979 by an
RMWAIHQ mission and was prepared in 1982 by consultants in cooperation with
the Livestock Department (DNE). A Government request for funding was
received in June 1983 and appraisal took place in October 1983. A number
of difficult issues were identified during appraisal; these required
Government decisions and slowed pro,ject processing.
1.02      Project preparation proceeded more slowly than normal in order to
allow time for full understanding and acceptance of the project's
unconventional components (pactoral associations, input distribution,
systems studies, and cost recovery, including the introduction of payment
for vaccinations of cattle against Rinderpest and Contagious Pleuro-
pneumonia). A fruitful dialogue between IDA and the Government on the
above subjects led to full acceptance of the proiect by relevant Government
officials. The onlv remaining issue - the payment for Rinderpest
v-accination - was resolved when it was agreed that a law requiring payment
for vaccinations would be passed as a condition of Board presentation (para
8.01); this was then done.  Firm commitment has been obtained from the
African Development Fund and the OPEC Fund for the necessary cofinancing of
the project.  AfDF has carried out their appraisal of the project in
November 1985.
B. Country Characteristics
1.03      Mauritania's vast territory of over one million square kilometers
is three-quarters Saharan or semi-Saharan desert. Apart from a narrow bank
along the Senegal River border in the scuth-west that sustains sedentarv
crop farming, the remainder is suitable only for extensive agro-
pastoralism. More than 85% of the population inhabits that one-third of
the country's territory located south of the 180 latitude, which cuts
across the country eastward from the capital of Nouakchott (see Map).
1.04      As recentlv as the mid-1970s, 60% of the population, chiefly
Moors of Arab-Berber heritage, were engaged in migratory herding; a further
20%, predominantly Black African ethnic groups, were sedentary farmers
along the Senegal River. Standards of living, though not exceptionally low
in comparison with those of neighboring countries, are among the lowest in
the world. Life expectancy at birth is 45 years, a figure that has hardly



-2-
changed in Mauritania since independence in 1960. The literacy rate, 5% at
that time, remains less than half that of the poorest countries in Africa:
less than 20Z of the Mauritanian population is literate in either of the
two official languages, Arabic and French.
1.05      At least 30% of Mauritania's population, some 500,000 people, are
presently urban dwellers (excluding temporarv refugees from drought).
Nouakchott has a population conservatively estimated at 375,000, or nearly
one-quarter of .he nation's total population. Water supply is the city's
most critica.. problem. About half of its inhabitants are housed in provi-
sional shelter. As little as 60% of its labor force is regularly engaged
in any form of income-earning activity, and less than one-third of those
are salaried workers. Conditions in secondary urban centers are similar to
those in the capital.
C. The Resource Base
1.06      Given  its  geographic  position  in  the  Sahelo-Saharan  zone,
Mauritania has one of the poorest agricultural bases in West Africa; crop
farming contributed only 32 of the economy's overall output in 1984.
Animal husbandry, however, contributes more than six times that share, a
far higher livestock-to-crop ratio than in any other West African ccuntry.
The national herd, which is currently estimated at 2.2 million tropical
livestock units (TLU)  1/, outnumbers the human population by a ratio of
1:3, also a far higher ratio than elsewhere in the region.
1.07      The other pillar of the Mauritanian economy is mining.  Since the
mines were opened in 1963, the exploitatiort of relatively high grade iron
ore deposits near Zouerate in the Kedia mountains in the north has been the
economy's principal motor of growth. Mining has in the past provided as
much as one-third of GDP and 802 of export earnings. although its role in
the economv has been severely diminished since the mid-1970s by slack
demand in industrial markets abroad.
1.08     Mauritania's coastal fisheries resources are among the richest in
the world, with favorable hydrological conditions over a vast continental
shelf providing an annual catch officially estimated at 525,000 tons in
1984, comparable to that of Senegal and three-quarters that of MIorocco.
These marine resources have been heavilv and almost exclusively exploited
by foreign interests for over 50 years; only in the 1980s has Mauritania,
which lacks a fishing tradition, attempted to harness them and to capture
their benefits. The table below shows the relative importance of various
sectors of the economv.
1/   For definition of a TLU, see Annex 7.  See also paras 2.06 and 2.07.



-3-
Mauritania - Structure of GDP in 1984
(in percentages)
Agriculture                                                   3.1
Animal husbandry                                             20.0
Fisheries                                                     7.6
Mininzg                                                      16.0
Other Industry, including Fish Processing                     5.3
Construction, Public Works                                    7.1
Trade, Transportation, other Ser-rices                       25.7
Goverment Administration                                     15.2
GDP at Factor Cost                                          100.0
Source: Country Economic Memorandum, July 10, 1985.
D. The Economic Setting
1.09      Thus endowed with a limited, though not insignificant, resource
base in relation to its small population, Mauritania has seen its economy
change from one of rapid growth in its first decade of independence to one
of stagnation and extreme  reliance  on  foreign resources.   Since  the
mid-1970s, it has been unable to achieve appreciable growth in per capita
incomes and today receives foreign assistance equivalent to 30Z of the
economy's annmal output, or US$170 per capita.
t.10      The weak performance of the economy over the past ten years is
largely attributable to depressed world markets for iron ore, the country's
major source of growth up to the mid-1970s and its principal foreign
exchange earner, and to the effects of repeated droughts on the rural
economy, which had sustained 902 of the population prior to the 1968-73
Sahelian drought. While mining and livestock, the two mainstays of the
economy, were being eroded in the 1970s, Mauritania devoted much of the
ample foreign resources then available to the country to the nationaliza-
tion of mining operations, to ambitious projects in transport infrastruc-
ture and to a few large industrial ventures which proved unviable. It also
diverted much of its human and financial resources into a brief but costly
war in the Western Sahara.
1.11      The effects of reduced export 2arnings, drought, war and unpro-
ductive investments led in 1977-79 to a financial crisis, the fall of the
country's 18-yeaz political regime and its withdrawal from the war in the
Western Sahara. In late 1978, a new Government immediately launched an
important stabilization program which called for a major debt rescheduling
and tight controls on wages and Government spending. The stabilization
program was followed up in 1981 by the adoption of Mauritania's IVth
Development Plan (1981-85), which called for continued heavy investment to
ensure mining capacity through the 1980s and 1990s and for gradual
diversification of the economy through development of the country's
substantial fisheries resources and its irrigation potential in the Senegal
River Valley.



-4-
1.12      Complemented by substantial foreign support, the stabilization
program enabled the country to enjoy three years of relative stability and
growth  from  1979-81.  The improved economic performance could not be
sustained, however, in the face of a moderate drop in mining production in
1982-83 and the droughts of 1983 and 1984. Production in the mining
sector, which had been relied upon to fuel the economy's expansion in the
1980s, was by 1983 only 65% of the level registered ten years earlier.
Fisheries and irrigated agriculture, the alternative sources of growth to
which heavy investment had been directed, were expanding rapidly but were
still small in terms of their contribution to total output. As overall
production of the economy faltered at the beginning of 1982, even a modest
relaxation of the 1979 austerity measures, coupled with the effects of an
overvalued currency, was sufficient to boost consumption and to exceed
output by as much as 14Z by 1984.  In addition, given the heavy investment
requirements in mining and irrigation, final demand exceeded output by an
average of nearly 402 during 1982-84. To this exceptional resource gap are
to be added the burden of an accumulated US$1.7 billion in medium- and
long-term external public debt, equivalent to over 235Z of GDP, about five
times the average of developing countries at similar income levels.
1.13      Mauritania's reliance on foreign resources, its severe balance of
payments problems and the limited prospects for economic improvement in the
medium term now make it imperative to reinforce the adjustments started in
1979 with a far more comprehensive set of policy reforms to ensure sus-
tained  recovery and maximum  growth.  Since  late 1983, Government has
undertaken a broad re-examination of public policy and institutions as well
as a number of key reforms in the institutional and policy framework
(exchange rate and price policy, the banking system and the public invest-
ment program) within which the economy as a whole, and the private sector
in particular, operates. The proposed project fits well into this effort
since, in addition to strengthening the technical basis of the livestock
sector to the extent possible, it aims at removing price distortions and at
charging part of the cost of a public service to the beneficiaries.
E. Agricultural Sector Issues and Strategy
1.14      Agriculture's share in GDP  is relatively small  (para 1.06).
Because of declining rainfall in recent years, Mauritania's per capita
cereals production has been only about 40% of that recorded just 15 years
earlier.  Since the 1968-73 drought, dryland production, including flood
recession farming (chiefly millet and sorghum), which met half the national
requirement in the 1960s, has typically covered only 20-30% of consumption,
though it has fluctuated widely with rainfall conditions. Irrigated rice
and maize production, although tripled since the intensified irrigation
effort was launched at the beginning of the 1980s, still meets less than 5%
of the country's current annual cereals needs of about 250 thousand tons.
1.15      Cereals consumption has risen faster than population in recent
years. A major factor is thought to be clxanges in consumption habits of
rural emigrants whose food requirements were formerly met largely by milk
and meat. It is also likely that their former subsistence crop production
is not fully reflected in official statistics. The cereals supply/demand
balance in recent years has been as shown below.



Mauritania - Cereals Supply/Demand
(thousand metric tons grain equivalent)
1978/79-       1981/82-
1980/81        1982/83        1983/84
(Est.)
Domestic Production             45              41             16
Dryland: uillet, sorghum,
other                  42              32              7
Irrigated rice, maize            3               9              9
Commercial Imports              69              87             86
Rice                            52              61             46
Flour                            17             26             40
Food Aid                        65              76            165
Total cereal supply/demand      179            204            267
Source: Draft Country Economic Memorandum, March 8, 1985.
1.16      Irrigation and cereals pricing policy are the two main issues in
agriculture. With respect to irrigation, Government is pushing ahead with
the development of irrigable areas along the Senegal River, to compensate
for the declining output of rainfed agriculture.  The emphasis until
recently was on small perimeters, which are easier to implement than larger
schemes. As the possibilities for further development of small perimeters
are exhausted, the emphasis needs to be shifted to larger perimeters
(1,000 ha or more). The experience of the large-scale Gorgol project
(started in October 1980 with IDA assistance) indicates, however, that
progress beyond the small-scale perimeter stage will be slow and difficult.
Large-scale development in Mauritania entails high capital costs, due
largely to difficult physical conditions and poor supporting infrastructure
such as access roads.  Capital costs of irrigation infrastructure in
Mauritania average US$15-20,000/ha for large scale and US$2,500 for small
scale  infrastructure.  Large-scale  duv.elopment also  requires  expanded
farmer training in modern irrigation techniques, which Mauritanisn insti-
tutions cannot now deliver. Finally, and perhaps most significantly, the
continuity of large-scale development is problematic until means can be
found to ensure maintenance, particularly of the main canals.



- 6 -
1.17     The issues concerning the cereals pricing policy arise from the
fact that domestic supplies compete with cheap commercial imports and with
food aid, Which is mostly provided in grant form. Government has been
handling these problems well, although on an ad-hoc basis rather than as a
result of a coherent policy. Food aid has been used with considerable
success to meet short-term objectives of delivering food to drought-
stricken segments of the population.  At the same time, Government has
attempted to lessen the flow of migrants to Nouakchott by directing all but
15% of food aid to secondary centers and by setting retail prices in the
outlying districts at a level nearly 60% below that of commercially
imported rice in the capital. Moreover, the Government is committed to
mitigating the market displacement effects of food aid. Consumer prices
for food aid (wheat and sorghum) were only 60% of import parity in 1984,
but were raised by 502 in February 1985, which brought them almost in line
with the price of commercially imported cereals. Dependence on commercial
imports and food aid must be expected to continue for a long time to come,
while domestic cereals production is simultaneously being developed.
II. THE LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      Livestock production is estimated to involve 70% of the popula-
tion and to produce 85% of the output of the rural sector. It accounts for
more than 20Z of GDP, to which it is the largest single contributor. Animal
husbandry is, therefore,  one of the two most important sectors of the
economy, mining being the other.
2.02      Animal husbandry is only possible in the southern regions of
Mauritania, located on the northern fringes of the Sahel. These are the
higher rainfall areas of the country, but even there rainfall is relatively
low and always erratic (at most 500mm/year in some of the southernmost
border areas) and recurrent droughts are even more pronounced than else-
where in the Sahel.  A positive aspect, however, is that grasses grown
under sparse rainfall conditions generally have a higher nutritional value
than those in areas with more abundant rainfall. The nutritional value per
weight unit of Mauritanian pastures is therefore high 2/.
2.03      The  traditional nomadic  lifestyle  persists,  but  considerable
changes have taken place.   Since the great Sahelian drought of 1973,
precipitation has been below average. Over the last ten years, the 150 mm
isohyet has moved about 100 km to the south (see Map). The 1983 and 1984
droughts were particularly severe. The absence of sufficient rainfall has
upset the system: livestock, unable to find enough forage in the wet season
pastures, now often stay year round in the dry season grazing areas where
they used to graze for only four months, and some are even forced to
2/  Source:   H.  Breman  and  C.T.  de  Wit;  Rangeland  Productivity and
Exploitation on the Sahel; Science, 30 Sept. 1983.



- 7 -
proceed further south across the Senegal river into Mali and Senegal. This
compresses the animal population into a smaller area and increases competi-
tion for feed and land resources not only amongst herders, but also between
herders and settled farmers. The result is simultaneous deterioration of
the dry season grazing areas because of drought and overcrowding and of the
rainy season areas due to drought. The deterioration has been especially
severe in the southwest (the region of Trarza, and the northern part of
Brakna). Dunes hitherto immobilized by vegetation have started to move due
to the cutting of shrubs and trees for firewood and the excessive browsing
and trampling of animals. As a result, many pastoralists have reduced
L,eir herds or abandoned animal husbandry altogether. Many linger with a
few animals around the 72 regional Food Security Centers.
2.04      Herd ownership is also changing.   Savings originating in the
modern sector have traditionally been invested in livestock, where, in
spite of inherent risks, they have earned more than if deposited in a bank.
The construction of many public wells has shaken traditional ownership and
de facto control over the grazing in the service area of public wells.
Herds belonging to investors (mostly urban traders and Government offi-
cials) and herded by hired personnel, increasingly roam areas that were the
traditional domain of pastoralists, thereby increasing the pressure on the
land.   In the absence of reliable data,  the extent of absentee herd
ownership cannot reliably be estimated, but figures of up to 40% of the
national herd are being mentioned.
2.05      The country and its pastoralists face the challenge of managing
grazing resources in a sustainable manner without destruction of the
environment.  Regarding carrying capacities of rangelands, it may be stated
in general that in years of normal rainfall (about 300-400 mm) on the
skeletal soils in the east, a Tropical Livestock Unit (TLU) (Annex 7)
requires 9-11 ha for year-round subsistence; on the dunes of Brakna and
Trarza the figure is 20 ha, and on the clay and loam of the Southern flood
plains, only 3 ha. Taking into account water resources and competition
from crop cultivation in the south, the country could perhaps sustain 1.5
million TLU on its own feed and water resources. The domestic herd may be
as large as 1.9 million TLU (paras 1.06, 2.06 and 2.07); with each drought
it diminishes as cattle die, get sold or emigrate to neighbouring Mali and
Senegal and with each good rain the number of animals retained by the
herders increases.
B. Production and Markets
2.06      The exact size of the national herd and its production parameters
are not known. Herd monitoring is made difficult by its dispersion over a
vast area, including remote and inaccessible regions, as well as constant
cross-border movements.  Cn the basis of vaccination records and other
indicators, it is estimated that during the late 1970s and early 1980s, the
national herd amounted to some 1.2 million head of cattle, 7.5-8.0 million
sheep and goats and around 750,000 camels, together equivalent to about 2.6
million TLU.  Off-take rates are estimated at around 10%, 30% and 9%,
respectively. Assuming average dressed weights of 120, 15 and 150 kg,
these parameters imply a yearly meat production of about 60,000 metric tons
(b.).  If annual per capita meat consumption is estimated at 25-30 kg, the
population of about 1.6 million would consume around 44,000 mt, suggesting



- 8 -
that most production is consumed domestically with some surplus available
for export.
2.07      The 1983 and 1984 droughts have changed the situation drama-
tically. Many cattle have died and many others have been driven to seek
refuge in Mali and Senegal. The domestic herd is presently estimated at
only 550,000 head of cattle; the numbers of sheep, goats and camels have
probably decreased less as they withstand drought better. A tentative
estimate would place the numbers of sheep and goats at 7.0 million and that
of camels at 700,000. This would make the domestic herd equivalent to 1.9
million TLU. However, taking into account the Mauritanian livestock that
has taken temporary refuge in neighboring countries, the national herd
could count some 2.2 million TLU. In any case, estimates of the size of
the Mauritanian herd at any time contain a considerable margin of error.
2.08      The most important market is the domestic one, and is centered
around Nouakchott, the fishing port of Nouadhibou and the mining centers.
Government is concerned about the country's meat supply. Present supply is
still adequate because of ongoing destocking, but shortages are likely when
rainfall improves and  restocking resumes.   With  continued population
increase and the constraints on the growth of the Mauritanian livestock
sector, long term prospects for domestic demand are good. A sanitary
slaughter facility for the capital is therefore needed (paras 3.07 and
3.32).
2.09      Should domestic livestock production exceed domestic consumption
needs, there would be no export problem. Mauritanian livestock would join
the export on-the-hoof trade routes from Senegal or Mali to supply coastal
countries like Ivory Coast, Ghana, and Liberia. A major objective of the
project would therefore be to redress the present deterioration of resource
anagement and to increase productivity in the sub-sector.
C. The Institutions
2.10      The Ministry of Rural Development  (MDR)  is responsible  for
agriculture,  livestock and the conservation of natural resources.  It
administers five semi-autonomous public agencies: the National Center for
Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Research (CNERV), the M'Pourie State Farm,
the National School for Training and Extension (ENFVR), the National Center
for Agricultural Research (CNRA), and the national rural development
agency, Societe Nationale de Developpement Rural (SONADER). The last two
institutions deal exclusively with crop cultivation. There is also an
autonomous state marketing enterprise (SOMECOB), responsibility for whi_h
is shared with the Ministry of Finance. MDR suffers from a shortage of
qualified national staff, at both the technical and policy making levels.
French technical assistance and an IDA-financed project (Technical Assis-
tance to the Rural Sector) seek to alleviate the problem.
2.11      The Livestock Department (DNE) within MDR consists of a Division
of Animal Health, which is responsible for the field service and the annual
rinderpest vaccination campaign, and a Division of Animal Production. DNE
maintains its headquarters in Nouakchott and has 11 field centers in the
regional capitals plus 19 veterinary field stations. most of which are
located in the southernmost third of the country (see Map). Each regional



- 9 -
center is staffed with a senior livestock technician responsible for the
supervision of the field stations in his region and for planning and
executing the annual vaccination campaign. However, drugs are usually not
available for budgetary reasons, and the conditions of infrastructure, the
state of maintenance of the cold chain and vehicles, as well as staff
motivation make vaccination against the major diseases (rinderpest and
pleuropneumonia) difficult. This problem is to be addressed directly by
the proposed Project. DNE's budget is given in Annex 2.
2.12      The ENFVR in Kaedi has been training veterinary field staff for
over 20 years. It offers two levels of training: a three-year course for
Livestock Assistants and a two-year course for Animal Health Assistants.
In 1983, the school graduated 20 of the former and 7 of the latter category
of  technicians.   They  are  all  needed  because,  unlike  other  Saheliar,
countries, Mauritania has not yet reached the point where the service *s
overstaffed. There is agreement that the present training of animal health
assistants at the ENFVR is too theoretical and that there should be more-
emphasis on such practical matters as equipment maintenance in the field,
communication with livestock owners, the sale of drugs and supplies, and
the handling of money and simple accounting.
2.13      The state marketing enterprise, SOMECOB, was established in 1981
with an official but unenforceable monopoly over livestock exports and the
authority to intervene in the marketplace, purchasing livestock for export
with the secondary objective of stabilizing domestic prices.  SOMECOB is
also responsible for the Kaedi Abattoir, which was constructed in 1975 as
an export slaughterhouse. SOMECOB exports have been negligible for lack of
competitiveness, while private exports take place freely and without
obstruction.  As a result,  its purchases in the domestic market and,
consequently, its price support effect, have been insignificant. The Kaedi
Abattoir is now functioning as a municipal slaughterhouse far below
capacity.
2.14      The CNERV was established in 1973 to study animal diseases, do
research on animal nutrition and conduct refresher courses for veterinary
field staff. It has an annual budget of UM 10 million of which 60% is for
salaries, and its activities are restricted to those that can be carried
out in Nouakchott.   The institute has a small but well-trained staff,
energetic leadership and receives technical assistance from France.
D. Livestock Projects
2.15      In  1971,  IDA  approved  a  livestock  development  project  (Cr.
273-MAU, US$5.9 million), which provided for rehabilitation and construc-
tion of wells, construction of firebreaks, and vaccination. It was com-
pleted in 1978.  The project performance audit  (Sec. M80-867, Nov. 21,
1980), while concluding that most goals have been achieved, noted the weak
executive capacity of the livestock department. The audit did not consider
the rate of return (tentatively estimated at between 2-11%) to be an
accurate reflection of project impact, but instead found the most important
elements to be the reconstitution of herds after the drought, and the boost
to herders' morale mostly achieved by the rehabilitation of wells.



- 10 -
2.16      Another project for livestock development covering 140,000 km2 in
the south-east became operational in 1982 under an ECU 3.9 million grant
from FED, of which 402 is to be used for rinderpest/pleuropneumonia
vaccination campaigns, 10% for a revolving fund for veterinary drugs in the
project area, 27% for stockwater development, 16% for experimental fire-
break construction and the remaining 7% for various experiments on pasture
improvement,   small-stock  production,   forage  production  and  project
monitoring  in  an  experimental  zone  of  34,000 km2.   The  project  is
progressing slowly.
2.17      A FAC/CCCE livestock project entitled  "Animation des Eleveurs du
Gorgol" stresses organization and the sale of inputs to livestock owners in
the Gorgol Region, and the Selibaby Rural Development Project (USAID) in
the Guidimaka Region also promotes range improvement and rural self help.
These two projects are small ir. monetary terms but important in their
concept of cooperation among settled livestock owners.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the project are to:
(a)  increase the knowledge and understanding of the livestock
sub-sector and introduce better resource management by
establishing pastoral cooperative associations;
(b)  elaborate a development plan and prepare follow-on projects
for the livestock sub-sector;
(c)  foster institutional and structural  reform,  particularly
with respect to the financing of livestock services; and
(d)  increase production by making improved services and produc-
tion inputs available to livestock owners.
3.02      Livestock production, one of the two most important sectors of
the economy (paras 1.06 and 2.01), faces a severe threat to its very
existence. Its problems are threefold, namely:
(a)  destruction of the environment due to drought and over-
stocking;
(b)  price distortions for sectoral inputs; and
(c)  the technical weakness of the public livestock services and
the lack of input delivery systems.
Given the importance of the sector, the country cannot afford not to make a
serious effort to arrest its decline. The project would therefore aim at
addressing these sectoral problems.



- 11 -
3.03      With regard to the deterioration of the environment, the project
is based on the hypothesis that the droughts of the recent past are not
manifestations of a long term trend of declining rainfall.  In any case,
the country cannot wait until projections regarding future rainfall are
available before dealing with the sector's problems. The project would be
justified even if benefits accrue over a short period (para 7.06) and
positive benefits would therefore result even if rainfall should prove to
be on a declining trend. With respect to overstocking, workable approaches
to this problem have proven difficult to devise not only in Mauritania but
in other Sahelian countries as well.  Nevertheless,  the project would
attempt to contribute to a solution through an experiment involving groups
of pastoral livestock owners (pastoral cooperative associations) which
would be granted the right to manage certain grazing lands themselves in
the hope and expectation that this would lead to a reduction in overgrazing
(paras 3.08 and 3.09). The project would also finance the study of this
fundamental problem. If possible solutions can be defined, planning and
preparation would also be financed for follow-up projects.
3.04      The most  important  input pricing distortion concerns pasture
lands. These are now a limited resource with an economic value, yet have
traditionally been available at no cost to all Mauritanians. This distorts
the cost of maintaining livestock and has probably contributed to the
overstocking problem.  This question will be addressed  in the studies
mentioned in para 3.15. Pricing distortions of other inputs have emerged
in the wake of the 1973 drought as a result of the desire to give emergency
aid to the livestock sector and because of a general increase in Government
spending (para 1.10). Livestock owners have been provided with goods and
services (vaccinations, drugs, feed, medical advice) free of charge or at
heavily  subsidized  prices.   This  has  further  distorted  the  cost  of
maintaining livestock and hence contributed to overstocking problems, as
well as to a herd composition that tends to favor the more vulnerable
cattle, which profit more from the inputs than other animals. The project
would strengthen the input delivery system and institute full cost recovery
(para 3.23).
3.05      The weakness of public livestock services (para 2.11) must be
redressed for two reasons:
(a) the livestock services have a positive effect on herd
productivity under all but the most negative conditions, and
justify their cost through the economic value of the produc-
tion increases they generate; and
(b) the inevitable changes and adaptations in the sector to
arrive at a better resource management make it imperative
that Government reach livestock owners/herders and retain
their confidence and trust; the only appropriate channel is
the field service of DNE, which needs to be technically more
competent to fulfill this function.
3.06      The project would be implemented with an intermediate evaluation
after 2 1/2 years.  It would be national  in scope but duplication of
project activities with the FED financed South-East Livestock Project would
be avoided (para 2.16). This concerns the experiment with the formation of



- 12 -
pastoral cooperative associations, which would primarily take place in the
regions of Trarza, Brakna and Gorgol (the project area of the First
Livestock Project (Cr. 273-MAU)) and the westernmost districts of the
regions of Tagant and Assaba CHoudjeria and Barkeol).
B. Summary Description
3.07      To achieve the above objectives the project would:
(a) as an experiment in social and territorial organization with
a view to better management of renewable resources, assist
Government in establishing a number of pastoral cooperative
associations.   These associations would receive rights to
grazing land; this would hopefully induce them to manage and
improve their grazing and stockwater supply. Existing water
points would be rehabilitated, new ones would be provided
where needed and cooperative associations would qualify for
assistance from the Production Improvement Fund (see (e)
below);
(b) provide the necessary resources to obtain and analyze
much-needed  information  regarding  livestock  production
systems, draft a national livestock development policy
addressing the sector's fundamental problems, monitor the
project and, if feasible, prepare follow-up project(s);
(c)  provide technical assistance, equipment, initial start-up
costs and a revolving fund to import and sell to livestock
owners the necessary veterinary drugs and vaccines, animal
feeds, feed supplements and other production inputs at full
cost;
(d) strengthen public livestock services by rehabilitating
infrastructure, providing equipment, training staff and
building competence in the field of range and stockwater
management. To ensure adequate funding of field operations
without  increasing the burden of recurrent costs on the
national budget, costs of public livestock services would be
recovered  through a surcharge on production inputs  (in-
cluding veterinary products) to be deposited in a Livestock
Fund that would finance the field operations of DNE;
(e)  encourage  self-help  among  groups  of  pastoralists  by
providing a Production Improvement Fund which would finance
(on a grant basis) small rural works, firebreaks and activi-
ties for which pastoral groups themselves have mobilized at
least 30% of the financing; and
(f) provide partial funding for a new abattoir for Nouakchott to
serve the fast growing population of the capital and replace
the existing unhygienic slaughter facility (para 2.08).



- 13 -
C. Detailed Features
1.   Establishment of Pastoral Cooperative Associations
3.08      The survival of pastoral livestock production, still the basis of
the country's economy, depends largely on improved range management and on
the willingness of pastoralists to make the required changes in their
territorial organization.  The approach which must be adopted is rotation
of grazing so as to allow seeding before grazing on certain areas. This
cannot be enforced under a commnnal grazing regime. Efforts to impose such
changes from  above  have failed and  the only hope of achieving this
objective appears to be to give responsibility to livestock owners/herders
themselves. The project would therefore promote, on an experimental basis,
the establishment of a number of pastoral cooperative associations and
would supply them with inputs and support services to help them become
officially recognized producer groups with responsibility for their grazing
resources. The Government has agreed during negotiations that only bona
fide cooperative associations formed by pastoralists will benefit from the
projects's well construction and rehabilitation program.   To test the
acceptability of such associations to pastoralists, a special team worked
during project preparation with two potential groups tc tLe point where
associations were ready to be established. The same team has now resumed
its work with PPF financing.   The appraisal mission also visited and
interviewed one of these groups twice as well as other pastoralists. For
each association, the project would finance the repair of p to four wells
and the construction of a new well.
3.09      In an area of 130,000 km2 consisting of the three provinces of
Trarza, Brakna and Gorgol, as well as the westernmost district of the
provinces  A'- Tagant and Assaba,  the Project's first goal would be to
establish *;p to 15 pastoral cooperative associations.  Such an association
would lnitWally consist of 30-50 households of pastoral livestock owners
who traditionally have grazed and migrated together.   These voluntary
groups of pastoralist families would, in exchange for the commitment to
manage and improve the range, be awarded grazing rights to a well-defined
area. By interviewing neighboring groups, the establishment team would
record any traditional rights of passage or grazing pertaining to a
potential association's grazing area. Such rights would be described in
detail and accepted by the new association on condition that the transient
grazers abide by any grazing and stockwater restrictions imposed upon the
members of the association and contribute, in cash or in kind, to
maintenance activities. The association would be assisted by DNE, which
would provide:
(a) animal health services;
(b) stockwater and range management extension services;
(c) veterinary drugs, animal feeds and other livestock supplies
at full cost; and
(d) training for officials of the associations and for selected
members as veterinary lay assistants (para 3.11).



- 14 -
DNE would also provide guidance on stockwater conservation and range
management.   Thus established and supported,  it is expected that each
association would eventually be able to assume increased responsibility for
resource  management.   Annex  1-1  provides more background  on  pastoral
development and Annex 1-2 more detail regarding the legal aspects of the
pastoral cooperative associations.
3.10      A team consisting of a sociologist, a livestock technician and a
cartographer with support personnel would help establish the pastoral
associations, a time-consuming task. The team would first approach a group
of pastoralists likely to form an association and engage in a dialogue with
them which might last, on and off, for about a year. During this period,
the wells and surrounding dry season range used by the group would be
identified and a map would be drawn. The team would also try to identify
any outside groups having (or claiming to have) traditional grazing rights
in the area and reconcile and record  such  rights  (para 3.09).   The
formation of the association would entail registration with the provincial
authorities  and  the  approval  by  them  of  the  range  areas  to  which
usufructory rights would be accorded.  The project would finance:
(a) the necessary equipment (office, field and camping) for the
team;
(b) two 4X4 vehicles;
-c) all operating costs; and
(d) the cost of five man-months of one expatriate sociologist,
and 600 days of per diem/year for the team members and their
drivers.
3.11      The regional livestock service would subsequently assume the role
of liaison with the newly-formed association. It would train the veteri-
nary lay assistant selected by the association in veterinary first aid and
in the use of the various inputs sold by DNE. It would arrange for the
officials of the association to be trained by the Department of Coopera-
tives of MDR and by ENFVR (para 3.29).
3.12      Where needed, the territories of the pastoral associations would
be equipped with watering points.  Apart from the small interventions
mentioned in para 3.30-31 below, there would be no other stockwater
development under the project. It has been assumed th.at each of the 15
associations would on average need to repair four existing shallow
(20-40 m) wells. In addition, 13 new wells would be constructed to serve
the 15 associations. Eight of the 13 new wells would be located in the so-
called "Biseau Sec" in the provinces of Brakna and Gorgol and would be
40-60 m in depth; four of these would have to be preceded by a geophysical
study. The work would be carried out under a contract with the Department
of Hydrology and would be supervised by the Stockwater Section of DNE. The
project would finance:
(a) the contract with the Department of Hydrology; and



- 15 -
(b) 24 man-months of a well construction foreman (consultant)
during project years 2-5, who would help the Stockwater
Section in the design and supervision of the execution of
the contract.
3.13      Pastoral cooperative associations desiring new wells or repairs
on existing wells would be asked to contribute OZ of the cost in cash or
kind.  No works would be carried out unless the pastoral cooperative
association requesting it had been duly established with a membership of
bona fide livestock-owning pastoralists.
3.14      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  only   bona   fide  cooperative   associations   formed  by
pastoralists would benefit from the well construction and
maintenance program financed by the project; and
(b) the pastoral cooperative associations, once identified and
established, would in a timely manner be allocated grazing
and stockwater rights, including the right to deny access to
grazing areas that they wish to improve and to which its own
members have no access (para 8.01(a)).
2.   Systems Studies, Monitoring and Preparation of Follow-On Projects
3.15      Detailed knowledge of livestock production systems in Mauritania
is scarce. Also, the project and especially the pilot component regarding
the establishment of pastoral cooperative associations must be closely
monitored. A team of three national professionals, under the leadership of
an international specialisL in livestock survey work and in cooperation
with the Office of Agricultural Statistics of the Ministry of Rural
Develepment and CNERi,. would provide a description of the existing
livestock production systems and the livestock sub-sector, and would
develop and submit for Government's consideration in PY 3 a livestock
development plan as well as proposals for follow-on projects.
3.16      The team (consisting of a sociologist, an economist, a livestock
specialist and a statistician) would study a small sample of groups
selected as being representative of the various livestock production
systems in order to identify their constraints. Livestock ownership and
the family unit would be studied in order to achieve an anderstanding of
the microeconomy and of the linkages to other production systems. The
project would finance:
(a) 48 man-months of an internationally recruited team leader
with experience in monitoring and systems studies;
(b) nine man-months of international technical assistance and
eight man-months of local consultancies;
(c) two 4X4 station cars and camping equipment;
(d) office furniture and equipment; and



- 16 -
(e) operating costs.
3.17      At the request of DNE, CNERV would undertake five field studies
in Animal Health and Production related to and integrated with the systems
studies being undertaken.  The studies would be financed by the project
under a contract to be negotiated between DNE and CNERV and approved by
IDA.  In order to improve CNERV's capabilities,  the project would also
finance equipment replacement in the amount of US$10,000 and a 40-KV
generator for the laboratory.
3.18      The Agricultural Statistics Office of the NDR would participate
in the team's work by collecting some of the data and by assisting overall
data analysis.  In accordance with a contract negotiated between DNE and
the Office of Agricultural Statistics and approved by IDA, the project
would also finance:
(a) nine man-months of a visiting international consultant over
three years;
(b) 60 man-months of local enumerators;
(c) office furniture and equipment; and
(d) operating costs.
Transport would be provided by DNE and financed under the project. Further
details on the systems studies, on the monitoring and on the preparation of
follow-up projects are provided in Annex 3-1.
3.19      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  Government would arrange for CNERV and the Agricultural
Statistics Unit of the MDR to integrate their work with that
of DNE's studies team; and
(b)  the studies team would be formed of professionals selected
on the basis of experience and motivation.
3.   Distribution of Production Inputs
3.20      Distribution of production  inputs to livestock owners hardly
exists outside of Nouakchott and some regional urban centers. Because of
the cost and relative small turnover, private firms and individual traders
are not interested in marketing veterinary drugs, feeds and feed supple-
ments outside  the regional capitals.   DNE,  however, has a network of
staffed and underemployed veterinary stations in the field.  Until such
time as the private sector gets involved in bringing inputs to livestock
owners, the project would organize the sale of inputs from these outlets.
By maintaining an adequate mark-up, the project is expected to encourage
private sector participation in the market (para 3.22).
3.21      The  project  would  therefore  finance  the  establishment  and
start-up of a Livestock Input Service (BIE) within DNE in Nouakchott. In
PY 3, subject to a favorable mid-term review (para 5.08), the project would



- 17 -
finance the expansion of BIE by creating a branch at Kiffa more central to
the main livestock producing areas. As turnover expands, operating cost
would be increasingly financed from BIE's margin. Project cost, therefore,
would include foreign financing of operating costs of up to 100Z, 75Z, 50X
and 25% respectively in PY 1-4 (para 4.03). By PY 5 at the latest, all
operating costs would be borne by the beneficiaries (see also paras
5.02-5.04). Two revolving funds would be established with project funds
over the 5-year project period for a total base cost of UM 86 million
(US$1.1 million). of which UK 30 million (US$385,000) would be used to
import veterinary drugs and biological products and UM 56 million
(US$700,000) for animal feeds.  The project would also finance:   three
man-years of expatriate staff (commercial and financial director),
equipment, a light truck and a town vehicle and part of the start up cost.
3.22      BIE would keep its operating cost to an absolute minimum and sell
its products at full cost (excluding technical assistance but including
overhead and depreciation) based an a turnover of UM 30 million for drugs
and vaccines and of UK 56 million for feed (1985 prices) plus the margin
for the Livestock Fund (see below). At this level, BIE would recover its
full cost of operation towards the end of the project. These targets may
be periodically revised. A more detailed description of BIE's objectives,
operating principles and price-setting policies is given in Annex 3-2. In
addition to full cost recovery for drugs and other inputs, a mark-up over
and above BIE's cost recovery margin would be levied on the retail sales of
drugs and other inputs to finance the field operations of the DNE to ensure
the provision of adequate services and to keep sales prices at a level
which would not discourage private sector entry into the market. The
revenue from the mark-up would be transferred to a Livestock Fund which
would  be  overseen  by  a  committee  (para  5.05).   The  mark-up  for
rinderpest/CBPP vaccination would be set at a level allowing full cost
recovery of the annual vaccination campaign and for other products at a
level covering the other operating costs of the field services of DNE but
which shall not be less on the average than 15% of retail sales prices.
The mark-up would be periodically reviewed in the light of market
conditions and probably differentiated by product. The resulting revenues
would be used against a budget approved by the Minister of Rural
Development primarily to finance recurrent costs of DNE field services
including those of the Animal Production Division thus allowing a better
service  (vaccination,   extension  of  advice,  sale  of  drugs)  (paras
3.24-3.28). Any surplus couJ] be used to finance capital costs for field
operations. In order to obrain a similar revenue from drugs retailed by
the private sector, DNE would approve the importation of these inputs and
issue an import license for which it would collect a special import fee
amounting to 9% of the invoiced cost of the items to be imported.  The
special import fee would be deposited in a Special Treasury Account and
would be earmarked for financing the same expense items as the Livestock
Fund.   Project  costs,  therefore,  would  include  foreign  financing  of
operating costs of the Animal Health and Animal Productioz. components on
the same ueclining scale as applicable to BIE (para 3.21).  The Financial
Controller at DNE (financed under the project) would establish disbursement
and accounting procedures for the Livestock Fund and the Special Treasury
Account  and  prepare  its budgets.   Assurances  have  been  obtained  at
negotiations that:



- 18 -
(a) there would be no restriction on private domestic trade in
veterinary drugs and vaccines or animal feed other than
those pertaining to technical requirements and quality
control;
(b) BIE would charge, for all veterinary drugs and vaccines and
all animal feeds, full cost c.i.f. at place of sale, plus a
mark-up sufficient to realise cost recovery for DNE field
activities;
(c) the mark-up would be deposited in a Livestock Fund, the
proceeds of which are to be used for field operations of DNE
against a budget to be agreed upon by IDA (Sections 3.07,
3.08 and 3.09 of DCA);
(d) an import fee of 9Z of c.i.f. costs would be instituted on
all veterinary products imported through private channels
and the revenue deposited in a Special Treasury Account
earmarked  for financing  the same expense  items as the
Livestock Fund;
Ce) BIE  would  be  authorized  to  control  all  financial
transactions and stock movements related to the sales of
drugs, vaccines ar.d feed; and
(f) Government would not distribute drugs, vaccines and feed,
including those received as foreign assistance, outside of
BIE channels.
3.23      The size and composition of the veterinary drug/vaccine and
a-nimal feed market in Mauritania is not well known. It is tentatively
estimated that towards the end of the project implementation period BIE
would have captured UK 30 million of the drug/vaccine market and UM 56
million 3/ of the feed market; this constitutes roughly two-thirds of the
market.   It would represent an expansion of the market as well as a
substitution of inputs previously purchased abroad by herders themselves or
Government agencies.   If  the above-mentioned average mark-ups  can  be
realized, about UM 22.0 million per year in revenue would be generated on
project completion and it would be necessary to expand the BIE by creating
sales and central storage facilities as Kiffa (Annex 6).
4.   Strengthening of Livestock Services
3.24      The  DNE has  30  livestock  regional and district  veterinary
stations, but lacks the financial resources to make them function properly.
The project would therefore:
3/  Valued at prices delivered to veterinary stations;  1985 constant
prices.



- 19 -
(a) establish a system of cost recovery which would in time
assure adequate funding of the field services (para '.22);
(b) complete, rehabilitate and modify DNE's field infra-
structure;
(c) upgrade the staff through refresher courses and increased
practical training;
(d) provide  additional  equipment  and  vehicles  for  field
stations; and
(e) improve DNE's financial management.
In connection with this objective of strengthening the livestock services
more support information is given on staff numbers and costs (Annex 3-3);
on investments in infrastructure and buildings (Annex 3-4); investments in
vehicles, cold chain and veterinary equipment (Annex 3-5); and the draft
TORs for technical assistance (Annex 3-6).
3.25      The infrastructure of the livestock field services, with the
exception of five recently constructed veterinary stations, dates from the
pre-independence period.  It needs rehabilitation in order to serve as a
basis for renewed services to livestock owners and for the distribution and
sale  of production inputs as shown on the project map.  Of DNE's 30
regional offices/veterinary stations, 25 are located in areas with high
concentrations of cattle for all or most of the year during aver_ge rain-
fall years. The entire network is needed to provide adequate services to
livestock owners, to stock inputs and to house field staff, Eight addi-
tional veterinary stations would be constructcd to fill the gaps in this
infrastructure and 15 stations out of the total number would be selected to
receive a small pharmacy and space for the storage and sale of drugs and
animal feed. The project would finance:
(a) the construction of eight field stations at Keur Macene,
Dar el Barka, Bababe, Mal, Boustella, Touil, Aouinatt Z'bel
and Boumdeid;
(b) the installation of water supply for five stations recently
constructed under bilateral aid from Iraq;
(c) the rehabilitation of 25 stations in various degrees of
disrepair;
(d) the preparation, at each of about 15 selected stations, of a
pharmacy for drug sales and a covered storage area for feeds
and feed supplements; and
(e) the repair and/or removal to a more suitable location of 40
out of 57 metal vaccination crushes and the construction of
four new ones.
3.26      Tae project would further provide additional equipment, namely:



- 20 -
(a) one 4X4 vehicle for the construction engineer and 25 4X4
vehicles (one per district and per region);
(b) one 4X4 and two 2X2 station cars for DNE Headquarters;
(c) five freezers, five refrigerators and ten ice containers for
storage and transport of biological products;
(d) basic veterinary equipment and instruments for the eight new
stat-.ons and five sets of replacements (Annex 3-5, page 2);
and
(e) a radio communication network consisting of a base station
and 30 stations to be selected in the regions.
A Project Coordinator/Financial Controller would be provided for five
years.  He would be in charge of project coordination and be a financial
adviser to the Livestock Director who would be project director.  He would
assist the accountant to improve administrative accounting and financial
supervision of the regional services. A construction enginei-: who would
assist the Director of Livestock to plan, contract for and supervise the
civil works program would be provided for three years. At the end of
project implementation, DNE would be able to proceed without the assistance
from the financial controller.
3.27      A Range Management Section would be created in the Division of
Animal Production within the DNE. Its t!rms of reference would be:
(a) to develop, in cooperation with the regional "FAO/UNEP Pilot
Project for Inventory and Monitoring of Sahelian Pastoral
Ecology" in Dakar and in contact with the AGRIMET project in
Niamey, an information service dealing with rangeland
conditions, rainfall distribution and availability of
grazing;
(b) to help the pastoral associations to plan conservation and
improvement measures and to manage their grazing land more
effectively; and
(c) to supervise the design and construction of firebreaks by
the associations.
Four experienced livestock technicians would be trained in Senegal: two in
range livestock production and two in stockwater conservation and develop-
ment. The project would finance:
(a) the training of staff in Dakar;
(b) the operating costs of the Range Management Section on a
declining scale for five years as the resources of the
Livestock Fund increase; and
(c) six man-months of consultant services to establish the
section and provide on-the-job training for staff.



- 21 -
3.28      A Stockwater Section would simIlarly be created in the Division
of Animal Production and staffed by the two above-mentioned livestock
technicians  trained in stockwater  conservation and development.   This
section would be responsible for support to pastoral associations, and for
the supervision of contracts made with the Department of Hydrology (paras
3.12-3.13). The project would finance:
(a) the training of staff in Dakar;
(b) the operating cost of the Stockwater Section for four years,
including staff per diems; and
(c) four man-months of consultant services to establish the
section and train field staff.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Range Management and
Stockwater Sections would be operated in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association (para 8.01 (d)). Their creation would be a
condition of effectiveness.
3.29      In order to improve training of both existing and new staff of
DNE and to create facilities for the training of the officials of the new
pastoral associations (para 3.11), the project would:
(a) improve the existing pre-service training program at ENTV;
(b) develop ENFV's capacity to conduct programs of in-service
training and up-grading for department staff;
Cc) set up training programs for the officials and related
members of the pastoral associations; and
Cd) provide mass-media support for livestock extension.
The project would finance:
(a) the construction of one classroom, two offices, and a cattle
crush, minor repairs to existing facilities and the conver-
sion of an office into an incubator room;
(b) furniture for the laboratory, clinic, pharmacy and the
teaching block;
(c) the purchase of books and training aids, professional and
audio-visual equipment for the library and clinic;
(d) two 4X4 vehicles for studentst field visits, one 4X4 vehicle
for the mobile extension unit as well as a 40 KVA generator
and miscellaneous equipment;
Ce) two man-years of a specialist in livestock/agricultural
education to serve as Director of Studies for the ENFVA at
Kaedi to train a national to take over the post; and



- 22 -
(f) 16 man-months of expatriate and 12 man-months of local
consultant services in the fields of poultry production,
laboratory equipment, training, stockowner training, docu-
mentation, audio-visual aids. The consultants would report
to the Director of Studies.
5.   Production Improvement Fund
3.30      A Production Improvement Fund would be established in the DNE to
partly finance (on a grant basis) small rural works, interventions or
activities for which groups of livestock owners would be willing and able
to provide at least 102 of the cost in cash and 20% in cash or kind. The
fund would only be accessible to pastoral associations; exceptionally, and
after approval by IDA, other well-established groups of pastoralists might
also have access.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Production Improvement Fund would only be accessible to pastoral coopera-
tive associations or, exceptionally and with the approval of IDA, to- well
established groups of traditional pastoralists with no access to bank
credit or other kinds of rural development funds.
3.31      The Fund would amount to UM 55 million (US$688,000) and would be
used for investments not exceeding UM 2.0 million per project. The project
would help livestock owners to design and prepare these mini-projects;
after their acceptance by the Director of Livestock, they would be sub-
mitted for prior IDA approval at the time of supervision. There would be
no separate administrative staff for the Fund. The types of interventions
financed by the fund would be:
(a) infrastructure improvements such as dips, crushes and
storage for forage reserves;
Cb) equipment foi treatment of animals;
Cc) maintenance and improvement of wells;
(d) group initiatives such as primary markets, slaughter slabs
or enclosures;
(e) stockwater development such as improvement to drinking
installations or the construction of small retention dams;
(f) demarcation of grazing areas;
(g) revolving funds for purchase, transport, storage and dis-
tribution of such basic supplies as sugar, salt, tea and
foodgrains; and
(h) range and pasture improvement, including clearing, seeding,
tree planting, construction of firebreaks and the introduc-
tion of new forage species.
Technical supervision would be provided by five man-years of an agricul-
tural engineer financed by the project. Five man-months of an expatriate



- 23 -
consultancy in rural engineering would be provided during PY 1-4 for this
component to assist DNE in the identification and preparation of projects.
6.   The Nouakchott Abattoir
3.32      The District of Nouakchott wishes to replace the existing unsani-
tary slaughterhouse with a simple but hygienic abattoir. The project would
finance the construction, equipment and working capital of such a structure
in Nouakchott. OPEC would finance 60% of the cost and the remainder would
be financed by the National Development Fund (FND) (37%) and the Munici-
pality of Nouakchott  (3%).  Total base cost would be UM 77.0 million
(US$960,000), estimated on the basis of preliminary specifications drawn up
by DNE. The abattoir would be operated by and for the Municipality of
Nouakchott under statutes that would give the institution financial auto-
nomy. Rates would be set at a sufficiently high level to obtain full cost
recovery  (including depreciation)  and an appropriate profit.   A study
comprising feasibility, technical design and the preparation of tender
documents is being carried out by consultants under terms of reference
approved by IDA and is expected to be available by the middle of 1986.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the abattoir would be
financially autonomous and would charge fees allowing full cost recovery,
including depreciation.
IV. COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
4.01      Total project costs, net of taxes and import duties, which would
be waived, but including contingencies, are estimated at UM 1,445.5
million, equivalent to US$18.1 million 4/, of which 67% would be foreign
exchange. The project is conceived as a 5-year project but project costs
include a provision for a possible delay in implementation based on a
7-year  disbursement  schedule  (Annex  4-1).   The  implementation  delay
contingency amounts to UM 128.0 million (US$ 1.6 million). Base costs have
been set at October 1985; they were obtained by adjusting prices prevailing
in February 1985 with the actual rates of increase in foreign and local
costs (5% and 12% per year respectively). Physical contingencies of 10%
have been added to the cost of all goods and services, except for civil
works (15%).  Price contingencies have been calculated at the following
annual rates:
4/   Exchange rate US$1=UM 80.



- 24 -
Price Contingencies Used in Project Costs
(in Z)
1986               1987-1992
Foreign costs                           7.5                  8.0
Local costs                            12.0                 10.0
Project costs are sumarized below and detailed  in Annex 4-2.
Project components by year are given in Annex 4-3.
LAUR1*UA
-BON LlVESmCC MD=JH
PR11EC C06r SIY
(UKi HiUix)             (aSs Mlllia)                  X Total
Z Foreign    Base
Lal   ForeIgn Total   Ical   Foreign Total    E Nimi        costs
A. PASIUlAL ASSCATI1                   13.8    88.7  102.5    0.2        1.1    1.3          87       11
B. SYST1  SrWIES, MONIT   AND
PRT PREPART                         41.7    77.5  119.2    0.5        1.0    1.5          65        13
C. DISMRIBUrICI UIPUW                  16.0    119.4  135.4    0.2       1.5    1.7          88       14
D. S5IR1MNGIl  OF LIVESMXK SERV=i
599T51                              18.5    67.5   86.0    0.3        0.8    1.1          73         9
ANIAL WALI                          77.9    106.9  184.8    1.0       1.3    2.3          58        19
ANDIAL PRCITICh                     66.9    63.5  130.4    0.8        0.8    1.6          49        13
T[RADhIN                            27.5    63.2   90.7    0.3        0.8    1.1          70         9
Sub-Total STR511NI1M OF LlVQUCX
SEKVIC13                     190.9   301.1  492.0    2.4        3.7    6.1         61        5D
E. ABATMIOR                            17.1    59.6   76.7    0.2        0.8    1.0          78        8
F. PPF                                   -      41.2   41.2       -      0.5    0.5         100        4
Tota BASLOEtXS                        279.4    687.5  966.9     3.5      8.6   12.1          71      100
Physical Cntigencies                  20.4    72.7   93.1    0.3        0.9    1.2          78       10
Price Cctingeuies                    109.8    147.6  257.4    1.4       1.8    3.2          57       26
hilemeatatJim Delay Contirgencxes     64.0    64.0  128.0    0.8        0.8    1.6         50        14
Total PRIBir COSTS                    473.7   971.8 1,445.5    6.0    12.1   18.1            67      150
-          _              - _      _-__                       -



- 25 _
4.02      Project cost would include foreign financing of US$2.1 million of
recurrent costs (11.0% of project cost) made necessary by budgetary
constraints. Recurrent cost financing by external sources, however, would
be on a declining scale for input distribution (para 3.21) and for the
Animal Health and Animal Production components, for which recurrent cost
would increasingly be financed by beneficiaries through cost recovery (para
3.22). An analysis of the effect of the project on Government cash flow
both during and after the project is given in Chapter VI.
B. Financing Plan
4.03      The financing plan is summarized on page 28.  IDA's participation
in the project would be US$7.6 million (42.0% of project cost), 70.0% of
which would be foreign exchange. The African Development Fund (AfDF) has
agreed, subject to Board approval scheduled for April 1986, to contribute a
loan of US$6.3 million equivalent, on terms identical to those of IDA. The
OPEC Fund has also agreed to participate, and the present financing plan
provides for an OPEC loan (no interest, 1% service charge, amortization in
17 years)  equivalent to llS$2.0 million.   The effectiveness of she IDA
credit would be subject tco effectiveness of the AfDF and OPEC financing.
Together, foreign sources would finance 87.8% of total project cost;
financing would be on a r.arallel basis, except for operating costs, which
AfDF and IDA would finance jointly (50% each).  Financing of operating
costs (both by AfDF and IDA) for the Animal Health and Animal Production
components as well as for BIE would be on a declining sca3e, namely 100% in
1986 and 1987, 75% in 1988, 50% in 1989, 25% in 1990 and none in 1991 and
following years. The National Development Fund (FND) 5/ would contribute
UM 40 million (US500,000) and the Municipality of Nouakchott UM 3.2
million  (US$40,000).   Beneficiaries  are  expected  to  contribute  the
equivalent of US$1.2 million and Gozernment about US$450,000. Together,
domestic sources would finance the equivalent of US$2.2 million or 12.2% of
project costs. IDA would lend to the Government which would pass the funds
to DNE as a grant.
4.04      IDA  would  finance  stockwater  development  (except  technical
assistance) for the pastoral cooperative associations, technical assistance
and consultants for management, input distribution, and all study
components as well as 50% of the externally financed incremental operating
costs. Funds advanced under the PPF facility would be refinanced from the
proceeds of the credit.
4.05      AfDF would finance civil works (except the slaughterhouse), all
equipment and vehicles, the production improvement fund, training as well
as technical assistance for the animal health, animal production and
stockwater development components. It would also cover 50% of externally
financed part of incremental operating costs. Supervision would as far as
possible be done jointly with IDA.
5/   FND is a national  development  bank which operates on commercial
pzlnciples and lends on commercial terms.



- 26 -
4.06      The OPEC Fund would finance 60.1% of the cost of the Nouakchott
abattoir, the veterinary drug revolving fund and the externally financed
portion (50% of base cost) of the revolving fund for animal feed.  The
on-lending terms for OPEC funds to the Municipality of Nouakchott would be
eecided between OPEC and Government on completion of the feasibility study.
IDA would administer OPEC funds and would supervise the project on their
behalf.
4.07      Government would finance the initial tranches (50% of base cost)
of the revolving fund for animal feed (UM 36.2 million equal to
US$453,000).   The  National  Development  Fund  has  committed  itself  to
providing UM 40 million (US$500,000) for the construction and equipment of
the abattoir and the District of Nouakchott will provide the abattoir's
working  capital.   Beneficiaries'  financial  contribution  will  be  made
through cost recovery, the mark-up on veterinary products and other animal
production  inputs  and  the  special  import  fee  (see  para  3.22).
Beneficiaries' contributions included in the recurrent cost financing plan
have been calculated on the basis of prudent estimates of the volume of
sales (Annex 6). Moreover, they have been included in the financing plan
with a one-year lag, to account for administrative and other delays. Based
on these hypotheses, beneficiaries' contributions would towards the end of
project implementation fully finance the incremental cost of field services
plus the Animal Production Division of DNE (para 6.01). Government would
also continue to fund DNE at the same level (in real terms) as in 1985;
assurances to that effect have been obtained at negot!ations and these
funds are not included in project costs.
4.08      The recurrent cost financing plan does not envisage a Government
contribution, because of the tight budgetary situation and the already high
local contribution.   However, should the contribution by beneficiaries
(para 6.01) not be adequate to finance (together with external financing)
the incremental cost of field services and the Animal Production Division
of DNE, Government would make up the difference. Assurances to that effect
have been obtained during negotiations.
C. Procurement
4.09      Stockwater development for the pastoral cooperative associations
would be carried out by the Hydrology Department of MDR under a contract to
be concluded with DNE. The Hydrology Department would use its own equip-
ment and personnel to the extent available, but may also sub-contract part
of the works. The proposed credit would provide necessary equipment that
is not already available and would finance materials and operating costs.
The IDA-financed goods and works for this component would be grouped in
homogeneous bidding packages where feasible. The following procurement
procedures would apply: contracts of US$100,000 or more would be subject to
international competitive bidding; contracts exceeding US$50,000 but less
than US$100,000 would be awarded under limited international bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA; contracts under US$50,000 would be awarded
according to local competitive procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
4.10      Consultants and technical assistance financed by IDA would be
procured in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency". Terms of



- 27 -
reference and qualifications of all consultants and technical assistants
shall be subject to IDA agreement. Assurances to that effect were obtained
at negotiations.
4.11      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below, with
the figures in parentheses showing amounts to be financed by IDA.
Miscellaneous materials (sand, gravel, cement) for stockwater development
(listed under "other"), are likely to be procured in small quantities on
the basis of local competitive procedures, which have been evaluated by IDA
and found acceptable. The procurement methods given in para 4.09 for
stockwater development would also be used for projects financed under the
Production Improvement Fund. but since individual projects would not exceed
UM 2.0 million (US$25,000), most are likely to be awarded to local
entrepreneurs on the basis of local competitive procedures. The items
listed under "N.A." concern operating costs except for scholarships awarded
to staff of the veterinary school. Goods and services financed by AfDF and
OPEC would bP- ..ocured in accordance with their respective rules. Since it
cannot at tnis time be determined for what purposes the implementation
delay  contingency will be used,  it has been  listed under N.A.   For
expenditures other than operating costs, the procedures described in para
4.09 will apply.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method                    Total
Item to be procured                   ICB       LCB        Other        N.A.         Cost
Civil Works                          2.5         0.1          -           -          2.6
Stock Water Development Cont.        0.4          -         0.1         1.0          1.5
(0.4)         -       (0.1)        (1.0)       (1.5)
Equipment and Vehicles               1.5           -          -           -          1.5
Consultants, Studies and T.A.           -          -        4.2           -          4.2
-         -        (3.0)          -        (3.0)
Inputs                               1.6           -          -           -          1.6
Production Improvement Fund             -          -        0.9           -          0.9
Scholarships                            -          -          -         0.4          0.4
Operating Costs                                    -          -         3.3          3.3
_-_        -         (1.0)       (1.0)
Repayment PPF                                      -          -         0.5          0.5
_-_        -         (0.5)       (3.5)
Implementation Delay Contingency        -         -           -         1.6          1.6
_-_        -         (1.6)       (1.6)
6.0        0.1        5.2          6.8        18.1
(0.4)         -       (3.1)        (4.1)       (7.6)



SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Financing Plan by Suwiary Accounts
(US 110001
MtA-MUN. or
&(OF            OPEC            IOA          NITRA*TN     NOUARCHOI      MIA-SEN.      MIA*OOVT         total                      Local
Aimunt    I    Amount   I    Amount    I    A,,ont  I    Amount  I    Amoeunt   I    &ncunl  I           Amount    I    For. Exch.  Isueal
I. INVESTMENT costs
A. CIVIIMO RNS '  (CMI               1, 453.5  57. 9    553.6 22. 3                  500.0 19.6                                   0. 0  0.0   2, 521. 2  14. 0    1. 285.   I. 24T. 4
5. SIOCK WATER DEVELOPMENT [WE)                                     1, 470. 6 100. 0 .        ...1,470. 6   16. I                                                 1,126.6    241. I
C. EQUIPMNET Ito)                      465     0.0 .....45.6   2.17                                                                                                442.5      52. 2
0. VEHICLES IVHI                       56.   9.          3.2  9. 5        -..                           ..                        .96                    5.5       931.0      46.6
1. I. A. AND CONSULTANTS IIAI          6655 I 26. 7    154. I 4. 1  2, 126. 7  65. 5 .        ...3,245.60  16.0                                                  3, 076,4    Il6,.5
F. STUDIES 1ST)                                   -                   8 52. 2100.0 .          ..                        ..                       52.2   4.71       458.2    394.0
O. INPUTS (INI                                       1. 120. 3 69.5        .36.65  2.5                                          452.86261I   1, 612.6   66.       1,6510, 4    2. 4
N. PROP. IMPROVEMENT fUND (P11         golo I 100.0         .                                 .        ...                                       06. I   5. 0      426,3    4116,60
I. SCHOLARSHIPS (TEl                   431. 7 100. 0       .                                  ...431.1   2. 4                                                      214.5S    217.21
ll. REPAIMENT PPF IPPI                     .515.0 100. 0 .                                    .        ..                        .51.0   2.92                      515.0
K. UNALLOCATED (UAI                    113.68  5. 4     67. 9  3.6a  1,5607. 3  69.6 a                                            00  0.0   1, 766.0   9.9 I       666.0    600.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  5, 271.  3  5.  2,000. 0 13. 5  6, 571.6  44.3   500.0  2.4    36.6  0.23                  452.6  2.1  14,635.   82.        II. 166. 5  2.6046 5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
EQUIPMENT OPERATIO  (EOI               64. 0  23, 6                   8 4. 0  23.6 8                             166. 0 52.68    0.0  0.0      356.0   2. 0       240.?1    115.3
VEHICLE OPERATION (IVol               164.5a  26. I                  164.6  26. I                                302.6 47. 6     0. 0  0. 0    522.3   3. 5       425, 6    205,6
LOCAL PERSONNEL ILPI                  506.92  30. 9       -          508.6  30.6        .                        526.5 36.2      0. 0  0.0   1,641.4   6. I            -  1,6041.4
MISCELLANEOUS INS)                    210. 5  45.23                  270.5  45.3                                  55.6A  9.4     0.0  0.0      566. 1   3. 3      260.2    306.5
Total RECURRENT COTS  1,026.2  31.6          .       1, 026, 2  31,6 8                   .        . 176. 1 36,4    0. 0  0. 0   3, 232. 4  17.        5,    ,7,
total Olsburganwnt                       5,300.0  34,9  2,000.0 II. I 7,5$00. 0  42. I  500.0  2.68   36.5  0.2I  1,176.1I 5.5   452.6  2.5  16,016.5 100. 0    12, 1417.1  5,621.4
2221333 322l3  3233132 3133  3333113 33233  31332s oust  333233 3233  1333331 set3  f3r133 3i13  33132231 1333s  2323331233  2322223



- 29 -
4.12      Contract Review.  All bidding documents and contracts for IDA-
financed goods and services subject to ICB and for supplies over US$100,000
would be subject to prior review by IDA.  Plans and specifications for
goods and works not financed by IDA would also be submitted to IDA for
prior agreement.
D. Disbursement
4.13      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be against the categories of
expenditure and within the limits shown below:
Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
Categories                                    Amount              % of Total
(US$ million)         Expenditures
(a)  Civil Works a/                            1.5                   100
(b)  Consultants and Technical Assistance      3.0                   100
and Studies
(c)  Incremental Operating Costs b/            1.0                    50
(d)  Refinancing PPF                           0.5                   100
(e)  Unallocated                               1.6
7.6
a/   Stockwater development for Pastoral Associations.
bI The disbursement percentage applies to the amounts eligible for
foreign financing, taking into account the declining scale applicable
to some operating costs.
4.14      Special Accounts.  In order to facilitate the pre-financing of
project expenditure, a Special Account of US$200,000 representing about 3
months of project expenditures, would be established from the proceeds of
the IDA credit. The Special Account shall be operated under the joint
signature of the Director of Livestock and the Project Coordinator/Finan-
cial Controller.   Requests for reimbursement would be fully documented
except for operating costs (US$1.0 million), which would be reimbursed
against  Statements  of  Expenditure.   Similarly,  a  SpecIal  Account  of
US$200,000 would be established out of AfDF loan proceeds to pre-finance
AfDB - financed project cots.
4.15      The disbursement profile adopted for the project is given in
Annex 4-1.
E. Accounts, Audit and Reporting
4.16      Accounts.   DNE will  establish  and maintain  separate project
accounts for all project components in accordance with sound and generally



- 30 -
accepted  financial  practices.   With  the  technical  assistance  to  be
provided,  DNE will be able to fulfill this obligation.   The Project
Coordinator/Financial  Controller  would  be  recruited  before  credit
effectiveness under PPF financing.
4.17      BIE would keep its own accounts, including separate accounts for
each of the revolving funds for animal feed and veterinary drugs, the
mark-ups applied to the sale of these products and the transfers of funds
into the Livestock Fund.  Cost accounting would be applied to justify
prices and mark-ups. The existence of an adequate accounting system and
the recruitment of a Commercial and Financial Director and accountant for
BIE would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.18      Audit.  Project accounts (including those of the Input Distribu-
tion Unit and the Livestock Fund) would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. An audit report would be submitted to IDA six
months after the end of DNE's fiscal year.  The report will include a
statement on the adequacy of the accounting systems and internal controls
and a statement as to wlether or not funds of IDA and cofinanciers have
been used for their intended purposes. The report would also include an
opinion on the Statements of Expenditure submitted for disbursement (para
4.14).
4.19      Reporting.  DNE would submit to IDA a semi-annual progress report
drafted by the Systems Studies and Monitoring Team, which would monitor the
entire project.  The report would review project activities, including
pertinent monitoring indices, and summary project accounts.  Government
would cause the DNE to prepare a report to serve as a basis for the interim
evaluation (para 5.08), as well as a Project Completion Report within six
months after the project's Closing Date.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation and Present Status of Project
5.01      DNE would be responsible for project implementation.  The project
would not have a separate structure, but would be incorporated into DNE's
existing structures of which a flowchart is shown in Annex 5-1.  Each
component would be executed by either the Animal Health or the Animal
Production Division of the DNE.  In the case of new activities (e.g.,
systems studies and monitoring), a new section or entity would be estab-
lished.    The Project Coordinator/Financial Controller to be recruited
under the project would be financial manager of the project, would
coordinate project implementation and would be financial adviser to the
Livestock Director regarding DNE non-project financial affairs. He would
co-sign, with the Director of Livestock, checks drawn on the Special
Accounts (para 4.14) and would assist DNE in the preparation of withdrawal
requests. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that:
(a) the accounts of DNE, BIE and the Livestock Fund would be
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA;



- 31 -
(b)  the DNE and the ENvA would re-Introduce a vehicle inventory
and vehicle use control system; and
(c) the draft budgets of and annual work programs for DNE, BIE
and Livestock Fund would be submitted to IDA for review and
comments (para 3.26).
5.02      Immediately after Board approval the search for candidates to
fill key positions (project coordinator, financial controler, BIE's
Commercial and Financial Director and the ConstrLttion Engineer) will
start. They will be recruited as soon as possible after credit signature
under PPF financing and their appointment is a condition of effectiveness
(para 8.02(a)). Recruitment of other technical assistants (in particular
the Teamleader for Studies) will also be initiated after credit signature.
The establishment of the Range Management and Stockwater Sections of the
Division of Animal Production was also negotiated as a condition of
effectiveness (para 8.02(d)). Subsequent to negotiations, these have been
duly created by Government.  BIE has also been established in a form
satisfactory to the association and the appropriate accounting system
(required for effectiveness) will be established with the assistance of
consultants (para 8.02(b)). Legislation setting up the Livestock Fund and
introducing the special import 'ee has been adopted (para 8.02(c)). Apart
from cross-effectiveness conditions, the principal condition to be
satisfied for IDA credit effectiveness is, therefore, the appointment of
the key staff mentioned above. An implementation schedule is given in
Annex 5-2.
B. Input Distribution
5.03      For the import and distribution of livestock inputs, DNE will
establish an Input Distribution Unit (BIE) in Nouakchott (para 4.18). As
noted, BIE will have financial autonomy, and will maintain separate
accounts (para 4.18). It will be headed by a Director with experience and
qualifications acceptable to IDA (TOR, Annex 3-7). A suitably qualified
Mauritanian Director will be sought, but the project includes funds for
international recruitment should such a candidate prove unavailable. The
operating conditions for BIE (including commercial and pricing policy,
disposition of merchandise, goods and equipment) are described in Annex
3-2. Subject to these provisions, the Director will have wide authority in
managing BIE.
5.04      BIE will use DNE's veterinary stations as sales outleLs. Veteri-
nary staff will sell drugs and other inputs exclusively against full cost
payment. The station chief will be responsible for keeping account of
stocks and cash. Periodically, but not less than once per month, a BIE
representative will visit the station to take receipt of the money and
consolidate stocks and sales records. The BIE Director would report any
discrepancies or uncovered Funds to DNE. The station chief will receive
6.25Z of sales revenue, reduced by the stations' losses of cash or merchan-
dise. Sales revenue will be applied as explained in Annex 3-2. The part
corresponding to recovered costs will be deposited in the bank account for
the revolving funds for drugs and feed.



- 32 -
C. Livestock Fund
5.05      BIE would deposit revenue for the Livestock Fund in a special
bank account under the joint signature of the Director of Livestock and the
Financial Controller. Honey would be transferred to the Livestock Depart-
ment to be used for agreed purposes against pe.iodic budgets prepared by
the Livestock Service, approved by the Minister of Rural Development and
agreed upon by IDA. Similar procedures will apply to the Special Treasury
Account (para 3.22).
5.06      A Supervisory Committee of BIE and the Livestock Fund would be
established under the chairmanship of the Minister of Rural Development, or
his  designate.   The  committee  would  include  a  representative  of  the
Minister of Finance, a representative of the Minister of Plan and the
Secretary General of the National Association of Livestock Owners. The
committee would oversee, but not direct, the generation of funds from the
sales of inputs and their transfer to the Livestock Fund and would see that
resources from the Livestock Fund and the Special Treasury Account are used
properly to fund field service operations of the DNE. It would approve the
accounts of the BIE and the project accounts and consider proposals for the
use of Livestock Fund proceeds prepared by the Director of Livestock for
submission to the Minister of Rural Development.
D. The Pastoral Cooperative Associations
5.07      The approach to the creation of pastoraL cooperative associations
is described in paras 3.08-3.14. The associations would be organized in
accordance with the Law of Cooperatives of July 18, 1967. They would come
under the responsibility of DNE and the MDR's Department of Cooperatives.
The associations would be granted land use rights in accordance with the
Law on Land Ownership of June 05, 1983 and its implementing regulation of
January 19, 1984. The question of access by the associatlon to "protected"
or "'classified" lands would be regulated by the Forestry Code of
December 15, 1982 (Annex 1-2).
5.08      A mid-term review would be undertaken by Government and the
resulting report submitted to IDA. The purpose of the review would be to
examine:
(a) the viability of all parts of the Project;
(b) the progress of establishment of Pastoral Cooperative
Associations and an estimate of the rate of future estab-
lishment;
(c) BIE's performance and the need for construction of BIE
facilities at Kiffa; and
(d) the results of the systems studies and their possible
implication for the Project design.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would undertake a
mid-term review no later than 2 1/2 years after credit effectiveness and
submit the report to IDA within four months. The report shall provide an



- 33 -
assessment of the Project's performance in accordance with key performance
criteria to be agreed upon with the Associations.
E. Training
5.09      Consultants would visit the project twice a year if needed and
the project would schedule these visits so that during a given two-week
period each year a seminar on all aspects of project implementation could
be attended by senior project and ministry staff and the consultants.
Professionals from the MDR and other ministries would be used as local
consultants at the ENFVR to give short courses in animal health, collection
and treatment of field data, stockwater development, environmental
protection techniques, construction and abattoir management.
VI. FINANCIAL RESULTS
6.01      The project would not affect Government's recurrent expenditures
for the livestock sub-sector which in 1985 amounted to UM 20 million.
During project implementation, beneficiaries and external assistance would
finance all incremental recurrent costs.  Upon project completion,  the
financially autonomous BIE and the Nouakchott abattoir would be
self-supporting as a result of full cost recovery. DNE's field services
and Animal Production Division would be fully financed by beneficiaries
through their contribution to the Livestock Fund and through the special
import fee (para 3.22), whose revenue projections are given in Annex 6.
The other components (strengthening of management, studies and stockwater
development for the pastoral associations), except training, would be
discontinued under this project upon its completion. As the following
table shows, training after project implementation would require about
UM 3 million per year (base cost) in incremental recurrent expenditure,
which will be borne by Government.  This, however, would be more than
offset by about UM 10 million per yre-:r in savings on veterinary drugs and
vaccines previously purchased by Government and distributed free of charge.
Therefore, if BIE's cost recovery evolves as anticipated, the Government's
contribution to recurrent costs of the livestock sector might even
decrease.  The table summarizes incremental recurrent project costs and
their financing during and after project implementation.



- 34 -
Incremental Recurrent Project Cb6ts and their Finanxnvg
(mdiicks of Ut October 1985 prices)
Incremmntal Recurrent Costs            1986/87 1987/88 1988,89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 +
hrimal Health Cbmponent                  12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   L2.0   12.0
Anima1 ProduCticia Ccmpnment              8.4    8.4    8.4    8.4    8.4    5.6
Training Ccuxmat                          4.6    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    3.0
Distihiton Productim
Inputs Ccuicxent                         3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Other Cmpxonents                          8.1    8.1    8.1    6.8    6.8         -
Unallocated for field services              -       -      -       -       -    4.4
Total                                    36.8   36.7   36.7   35.4   35.4   28.7
Beneficiaries                               -    10.5   13.8   17.2   20.4   22.0
Cost reovery BIE                            -    0.9    1.9    2.8    3.7    3.7
Goveruent                                   -      -       -       -      -    3.0
Foreign Assistance                       36.8   25.3   21.0   15.4   11.3         -
Total                                    36.8   36.7   36.7   35.4   35.4   28.7
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
A. Benefits
7.01      Project benefits are of four types:
(a)  improved knowledge and understanding of the livestock s etor
and the start of better resource management through the
creation of pastoral cooperative associations;
(b)  elaboration  of  a  development  plan  for  the  sector,  the
preparation of follow-up proj cts;
(c)  institutional  and  structural  reform,  particularly  with
respect to the financing of public livestock services and
the removal of price distortions; and
(d)  increased production.
7.02      Profound structural changes are needed to put the sector on a
sound footing.   Systems  studies  (herd composition and ownership,  herd
movements, grazing rights, and the economics of animal husbandry for
various types of herds) would be an important project benefit. They would
yield the basis for a policy discussion on the future of animal husbandry
in Mauritania and would lead to an overall development plan for the sector.
In this connection, the experience to be gained from the experiment with



- 35 -
the pastoral associations is most important. The M4auritanian authorities
attach great value to this component and it will significantly add to the
knowledge of the sector and to Government and donors' ability to influence
its evolution.
7.03      Institutional  reforms  in  the  financing  of  public  livestock
services would also result. Systematic application of full cost recovery
for drugs, vaccines and feed, as well as services performed by the regional
livestock services, would make public livestock services less dependent on
scarce budgetary resources and would therefore sustain benefits beyond the
project  period.   Full  cost  recovery  is  likely  to bring  about  some
structural adjustments.  Because livestock owners would have to pay the
full financial cost (though not the full economic cost since they still
would not pay for scarce pasture resources) some marginally profitable
herds may be eliminated, thus reducing stock numbers. Moreover, cattle
have  benefitted  most  from  sectoral  subsidies.   Vaccinations  against
rinderpest and CBPP (only given to cattle) have been free and cattle owners
have probably disproportionately benefitted from free or below-cost feed
distributions. As these and other subsidies cease, the economics of cattle
raising will change and animal selection will be made on the basis of
suitability for the environment.  This would favor the hardier camels,
goats and sheep, thus reducing production costs.
7.04      Incremental production would be achieved through a better animal
health coverage and emphasis in extension work on improved production
techniques and resource management. At present, the sector is not working
at optimal efficiency. In particular, there is a discrepancy between feed
resources and the size of the national herd. Other problems include low
culling rates and a possible preference for cattle over camels, goats and
sheep. Improved animal health coverage would yield positive benefits even
at sub-c-timal levels of efficiency. While no firm data support the claim,
these benefits may be even larger in times of drought and feed shortages
when there are more weak animals. The discrepancy between herd size and
feed  resources  would  therefore  not  justify  reducing  or  suspending
preventive animal health care.  This is all the more true for Mauritania,
which, in periods of drought, also extends animal health care to
Mauritanian herds in Senegal. Critical 'tements of the system (feeding,
culling,  pasture  information,  support  for  herds  stranded  by  feed
shortages), would also be addressed through DIRE's extension work with
livestock producers. Since there is no ready solution to the problem of
overstocking, the project can only assist by making feed available in the
field (at full cost) to assist herders in overcoming short term problem.
B. Economic Justification
7.05      The uncertainties and risk surrounding the project make the
calculation of an economic rate of return not very meaningful. Ho-iever, it
is possible to estimate what incremental production would be needed to
obtain a sufficient rate of return.  This has been done by taking into
account only the meat value of incremental production, assuming that
incremental production will result in higher off-take and not in an
increase in herd size.  If the latter had been assumed, incremental milk
production would also have been counted.  It has also been assumed that
only 50Z of the benefits would be realized in PY 1, 75Z in PY 2 and that



- 36 -
the full amount of benefits would be obtained only beginning in PY 3.
Under these hypotheses and those mentioned in Annex 7. the project would
show an economic rate of return of more than 10%, with an incremental
production of about 7,600 tropical livestock units (TLU) per year due to
project activities. The incremental production would come from preventive
health care (vaccinations), the use of curative and antiparasitic drugs and
treatments, and from the availability of feed and improved watering
facilities. This seems an attainable goal, as it represents only 0.4% of
the  herd.   A  satisfactory  economic  rate  of  return  therefore  seems
attainable.
7.06      Sensitivity analysis has been done on the duration of project
benefits. It shows that the project is not particularly sensitive to the
duration of project benefits.  While an incremental production of about
7,600 TLUs will be sufficient to reach a 10% ERR, when assuming 20 years of
project benefits, an incremental production of only about 900 TLUs more
will suffice each year should project benefits accrue only over a 10-year
period. An annual incremental production of 8,500 TLUs is still only 0.45%
of the herd and seems quite feasible.
C. Risks
7.07      The  project  entails  considerable  risks.   The  formation  of
pastoral  associations  is  a pilot  activity,  and  although examples  of
progress in similar efforts do exist elsewhere in the region (such as in
Niger and Mali), it is not certain that it will succeed in Mauritania,
where the socio-economic and political situation is different.  The studies
component would provide the expected insight into the sector, but it will
have to be seen whether this will result in a viable development plan
and/or follow-up projects; in case of inadequate rainfall, which would
threaten the sector's very existence, the results of the studies and
analyses may even beocme irrelevant.
7.08      The anticipated incremental production may not be realized if
rainfall does not resume at a sufficient level. Livestock production would
remain stagnant in that case, although output might still be higher than in
the "without project" case.  If rainfall continues to diminish, animal
husbandry will become impossible and the greater part of the investment
would  be  lost.   Production might  also  be  compromised by  unexpected
resistance by livestock owners to the cost recovery principles underlying
the project. In that case, activities of the livestock regional services
may drop below the level that would justify the project.  Since some
livestock owners are politically very powerful, their resistance might
affect Government motivation regarding the project. A special PPF was
approved to allow the DNE to take action (repair of vaccination crushes)
and to extend tc the livestock owners the idea of the project.   The
mid-term review (para 5.08) provides assurance that this type of potential
problem would be dealt -with at an early stage.
7.09      Resistance  to  cost  recovery measures would also affect  the
desired institutional and structural reforms. Without cost recovery, the
field services would again become dependent on the national budget, and
would receive inadequate funding for their activities. Moreover, BIE would
cease to exist and drug and feed distribution in the field would stop.



- 37 -
Finally, without systematic cost recovery, the distortions that keep the
cost of maintaining livestock artificially low and favor cattle over sheep,
goats and camels would remain.
7.10      The above risks must be assumed, however.  Failure to implement
the project would mean abandoning the sector to its current downward
spiral. The destruction of the production potential of the sector would
cause unacceptable further decline in income and in the living standards of
the rural populations.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a) Pastoral Cooperative Associations
i) only bona fide cooperative associations formed by
pastoralists would benefit from the well construction
and maintenance program financed by the project; and
ii) the pastoral cooperative associations, once identified
and established, would be allocated legally enforceable
grazing and stockwater rights, including the right to
deny access to blocks of grazing which they wish to
improve and to which its own members have no access
(para 3.14).
(b)  Systes Studies and Monitoring
i) Government would cause the CNERV and the Agricultural
Statistics Unit of the MDR to cooperate fully with the
DNE studies team; and
ii) the DNE studies team would be formed of professionals
selected for their experience and motivation (para
3.19).
(c) Distribution of Production Inputs
i) there would be no restrictions on private domestic
trade in veterinary drugs, vaccines or animal feeds,
other than those pertaining to technical requirements
and quality control;
ii) BIE would, for all veterinary drugs and vaccines and
all animal feeds, charge full cost c.i.f. at place of
sale plus a mark-up sufficient to realize cost recovery
for DNE field activities;
iii) this would be deposited in a Livestock Fund, the
proceeds of which are to be used for DNE's field



- 38 -
operations,   including   the   Division   of   Animal
Production, against a budget to be agreed upon by IDA;
iv) an import fee of 9% of c.i.f. costs would be instituted
on all veterinary products imported through private
channels and the revenue deposited in a Special
Treasury Account earmarked for financing the same
expense items as the Livestock Fund;
v) BIE would be authorized to control all financial and
stock movements related to the sales of drugs, vaccines
and feed; and
vi) Government would not distribute drugs, vaccines and
feed including those received as foreign assistance
outside of BIE channels (paras 3.21 and 3.22).
(d) Range Management and Stockwater Sections
These sections would be operated in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association (para 3.28).
Ce) Production Improvement Fund
The fund would only be accessible to pastoral cooperative
associations or, exceptionally and with the approval of IDA,
to well established groups of traditional pastoralists with
no access to bank credit or other kinds of rural development
funds (para 3.30).
(f) Nouakchott Abattoir
The abattoir would be operated as a financially autonomous
entity on a commercial basis and would charge fees allowing
full cost recovery, including depreciation (para 3.32).
(g) Government Financing
i)   Government would continue to fund DNE at the current
level (para 4.07);
ii)   Government would finance the difference between on the
one hand the incremental operating costs of field
services (including the Division of Animal Production)
of DNE and on the other hand the financing for these
expenses provided by external financing plus the
financial resources arisinp from the Livestock Fund and
the special import fee (para 4.085.
th) Technical Assistance
Assurances would be sought at negotiations that all tech-
nical assistance contracts including the conditions of



- 39 -
employment and terms of reference of individual consultants
would be cleared with IDA (para 4.10).
(i) Strengthening of Livestock Services
i)   the accounts of DNE, BIE and Livestock Fund would be
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable
to IDA;
ii)   the DNE and the ENFVA would re-introduce a vehicle
inventory and vehicle use control system; and
iii)   the draft budgets of and annual work programs for DNE,
BIE and Livestock Fund would be submitted to IDA for
information (para 5.01).
%'j) Hid-Term Review
Government would undertake a mid-term review no later than
2 1/2 years after credit effectiveness and submit the report
to IDA within four months for its review and comments. The
report shall contain a detailed examination of:
i) the cost viability of all parts of the Project;
ii) the progress of establishment of Pastoral Cooperative
Associations and an estimated of the rate of future
establishment;
iii) BIE's performance and the need for construction of BIE
facilities at Kiffa; and
iv) the results of the systems studies and the implication
for the Project design.
The  report  shall  draw  an  aesessment  of  the  Project's
performance in accordance with key performance criteria to
be agreed upon with the Association (para 5.08).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) appointment of the Project Coordinator/Financial Controller,
the Commercial and Financial Director of BIE and the
Construction Engineer (para 5.01);
(b) the establishment of BIE and the creation of an appropriate
accounting system (para 3.23);
(c) the creation of the Livestock Fund and the introduction of
the special import fee (para 3.22);
(d) the establishment of the Range Management and Stockwater
Sections of the Animal Production Division of DNE (para
3.28);



- 40 -
(e) the AfDF Loan Agreement and the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement
have been executed and delivered and all conditions prece-
dent to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals thereunder, except for the effectiveness
of the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled
(para 4.03).
8.03      With the above provisions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA development credit of US$7.6 million to the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania.
WAPAC
January 13, 1986



- 41 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
NEW TRENDS IN PASTORAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Introduction
1.        The approach to pastoral development has undergone considerable
change since the 1970s, mainly because earlier projects, geared pre-
dominantly to top-down technical change, did not produce the desired
results.  Attention shifted towards new strategies; several books have
appeared, workshops have been held, and the International Livestock Center
for Africa (ILCA) has undertaken an interdisciplinary study on three
selected Maasai Group Ranches in Kenya, the results of which are soon to be
published.   The  general  consensus  so  far  is  that:  (a)  development
interventions can achieve little without the participation of pastoralists;
and (b) the key to productivity is better resource management by the
livestock  owners  themselves.   Interventions  today  consist  mainly  of
investments to improve the quality of pastoral life: human and animal
health, stockwater conservation and development, and training for better
resource management.
2.        The potential for improving range productivity is limited.  The
technology developed in Australia and the United States is very
energy-intensive and at present inappropriate for traditional livestock
production systems in Africa. Stock numbers must therefore be brought into
line with the carrying capacity of the range, which is being reduced by
expanding crop cultivation and decreasing rainfall.  Better management of
renewable resources on the communal rangelands represents a challenge.
Some measure of social and territorial organization must be instituted and
the responsibility of pastoral groups for their traditional grazing areas
recognized.  Pastoral. development has therefore become concerned with the
human resources and the idea of producer group participation has gradually
taken center stage.
3.        With the focus of development efforts moving from Government to
the livestock production system itself, the design of a project requires
prior knowledge of the priorities of those systems. If such knowledge is
scarce, part of a first project may be devoted to a study of the system.
Such a project would include a 3-year study of the sector, particularly the
economics of the production system.  It might also include provision of
infrastructure,  inputs,  animal health/services, and staff training.  A
relat±icship of trust must be created between those doing the study and the
pastoralists, so that the latter can be intimately involved in the project
design.
4.        Inputs for animal health and production need to be made available
to  those  livestock  owners  who  desire  them.   They would  consist  of
veterinary drugs and vaccines, animal feeds and feed supplements.
Veterinary drugs used to be free in Mauritania and in many other Sahelian



- 42 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 2 of 6
countries and hence tended to be scarce as pressure on the national budget
increased.  Import and distribution  networks need  to be  reorganized.
Domestic distribution should preferably be done by the private sector under
the supervision of the Livestock Department. Where this is not possible,
an interim solution must be found by involving the public sector until
livestock  owners  are  sufficiently  organized  to  take  over.   Whenever
feasible, imports should also be handled by the private sector. However,
there are cases where, for reasons  of quality control and  technical
considerations, Government wishes this to be done by a public agency. If
this can be well organized (and satisfactory examples of this exist), this
should also be acceptable.
5.        Most Governments have a livestock department, generally in the
Einistry of Agriculture or Rural Development.  These were set up prior to
independence as regulatory services concerned only with animal health and
taxation. National livestock services in the future must be different.
While it is true that preventive vaccination against major epidemics will
still be required, this should no longer be the only or even main activity
of the department. Nor can the attitude of the extension agents continue
to be that of the regulator who orders the livestock owners around. The
new role of the livestock department and its agents will have to be that of
a collaborative advisory service whose operations are made possible by the
contributions of livestock owners and whose main occupation will be to
advise on the rehabilitation and maintenance of renewable resources such as
rangelands and stock water, to inform the livestock owners about market
opportunities and to facilitate the transfer of animals and other products
to internal or external markets. To achieve this, all staff will have to
be retrained and gradually reoriented. Moreover, a much stricter technical
management of the department will be required to keep costs to a minimum.
6.        Training is important both for agents of the livestock department
and for livestock owners. This concerns not only training of new staff of
the department but also re-training of all in-service staff. Training of
livestock owners is required to make them understand the new approach of
the service, including the fact that in one way or another they are going
to cover the cost of all operations ex_.ept personnel salaries. Where
grouping of pastoralists into Pastoral Associazions is achieved (see
below), training of the officials of these associations will be necessary.
Finally, livestock technicians will have to be trained in the management of
renewable resources for animal production (grazing and stock water) in
order to be able to advise the associations.
B.   Pastoral Associations
7.        The concept of the Pastoral Association (P.A.) is that groups of
pastoralists who normally live and move together should formalize this
interdependency by the creation of a legal association that can act for the
group in matters of credit and input procurement, and negotiate with other
P.A.'s and political/technical agencies of Government. The establishment
of the association would be undertaken by a team (sociologist, livestock
specialist and cartographer). The grazing lands of the group would be



- 43 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 3 of 6
identified, and the traditional rights of access by any third party would
be recorded.  Usufruct rights would then be allocated, subject to the
respect of the rights of third parties, in exchange for a commitment to
manage the grazing land in accordance with sound practices and the advice
of the Regional Livestock Servi.ce, which would have the responsibility for
extension and monitoring. Any third parties contesting the allocation or
wishing to register its rights to use the area would have to apply to the
local authorities. Once the group has been officially registered with the
local authorities, it would be eligible for credit or technical assistance
for stockwater development, i.e., extension advice, repair of existing
wells or the construction of new ones.
8.        The principle with respect to credit could be that the associa-
tion would first have to demonstrate its commitment by depositing a certain
amount (possibly 25% of the estimated cost of the investment). In the case
of a very large investment, e.g., a deep-well/storage well complex, the
deep well could be subsidized by Government, and the storage well financed
on  credit  once  the  downpayment  had  been  deposited.   For  smnller
investments, a Production Improvement Fund may be established which would
subsidize small rural works or firebreaks on condition that the group
provides a significant part of the cost in cash or kind.
9.        The goal would be to create associations incorporating 400-500
families (8-10,000 head of livestock) to facilitate administration. It is
not certain that such large groups would be easy to form, however. The
larger units would probably be more effective in representing the
pastoralists at the local and the national level, but they could only be
formed after both officials and members had benefited from extensive
training. On the other hand, larger groups may be more subject to internal
rivalries.   Only  experience will show what  is  the  optimal  size.   A
compromise might be the formation of several smaller associations (30-50
families) which are then consolidated into one large, registered and
officially recognized association.
10.       The group approach is facilitated by the fact that many Govern-
ments are now moving towards decentralization, with rural producer groups
now encouraged to take responsibility for their own affairs. In sedentary
agriculture, this has led to greater importance oc village groups, which
have responsibility for input distribution, credit and sometimes marketing
of their production. This change of attitude is partly due to national
budgetary pressures.
11.       As far as resource management goes, the risks associated with
pastoral  associations  are  that  the  allocated  grazing  areas  may  be
overstocked by the associations and might suffer degradation. In theory, a
group that is not respecting the contract could be evicted, but this would
not be so easy in practice. There is also a social risk involved, in that
traders and politically influential people might form associations in
better areas and around wells, thereby discriminating against the small
livestock owners. Finally, there is the risk that the credit may not be
repaid once the stockwater has been provided. Traditional pastoralists are



- 44 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 4 of 6
generally known as reliable debtors in their own environment, but they may
not be able to handle institutional credit the same way.
12.       The World Bank is presently involved in financing two projects
involving pastoral groups: one in Niger (Projet Elevage Ceutre-Est Cr.
885-NI of March 1979) and one in Mali (Operation de l'Elevage Mopti (ODEM)
Cu. 538-MLI of May 1985). Nearly a hundred groups have been formed under
the Niger project (Groupes Mutualistes Pastorales  (GMP)).  Each group
consists of 30-50 families who work together and often have the same chief.
Five pastoral centers have been constructed to serve as outposts for the
technicians from the Livestock, Human Health and Adult Literacy Services
and for seconded officials from the Cooperative Service (UNCC). Unfortu-
nately, the severe drought of 1983-84 has delayed the start up of the
centers.
13.       In Mali, a major study was carried out by tne International
Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) under contract to the ODEM project in
the Niger Delta. The project is now engaged in the formation of the first
associations, an activity to be continued under the follow-on Mopti Area
Development Project. In an early experiment, an association was formed
around a borehole fitted with a solar pump and a contract was drawn up.
For six months the arrar.&ement worked very well until the pump ceased to
function,  thus preventing the full experience from being gained.  The
associations would primarily be developed by the Mopti Area Development
Project in two locations on about one 1 million hectares of grazing land
which were underutilized because of the absence of stock water.  The
formation  of  associations wvuld  therefore  be  paired with  stockwater
development and the allocation of dry season grazing. In Niger, on the
other hand, all GMPs are based on existing traditional groups and the
Government has not yet made a decision on the subject of allocation of
usufruct rights; consequently, stockwater development has yet to take place
there.
14.        The dynamics of change in the livestock sector should not be
underrated. Ownership of livestock, and especially of cattle, is shifting
from the traditional pastoralists to the cultivators who used to be their
client/customers (or even former slaves) and to the modern absentee owner,
who might get a higher yield from livestock than from a bank and also
obtain great satisfaction and prestige from being a cattle owner. One
might even eventually envisage a much diminished pastoral population
entrenched in the uncultivatable arid and semi-arid zones and surviving the
dry season either by grazing crop residues or actually importing feed or
by-products from the agro-industries. At the same time, the mono-culture
farmer would have become a mixed farmer, rotating fodder ane cereal crops
in order to maintain his livestock production for consumption and surplus
sale. The absentee owner may disappear for several reasons: (a) it would
become harder to find free grazing or wells which were not appropriated by
a group; (b) investment possibilities would become more attractive than
owning cattle; and (c) Government policies would actively discourage this
form of capital shelter in order to protect renewable resources and the
rural producer.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1-1
Page 5 of 6
15.       In summary, therefore, the pastoral association is the logical
alternative at this stage, if we discard high-energy solutions as too
costly. However appealing and logical, however, it is not a proven
intervention and may not materialize, especially if it is not fully
understood or accepted by politicians. But it coincides with a drastic
change in government policy from centralization to village and group
self-management and with the appearance of well-trained national
professionals with sufficient insight and motivation to implement the
concept. Finally, after a decade of low rainfall, pastoralists realize
that isolation and inactivity do not get them anywhere. They seem to be
ready to try anything that promises to improve their situation. Therefore,
the concept of pastoral associations should be tried but it should be
closely guided to avoid failure due to sidministrative weakness rather than
to any intrinsic weakness of the concept.
C.   Establishment of Pastoral Associations under the Project
16.       This component was given high priority in the preparation docu-
ment and it may eventually become the most important component in pastoral
development in Mauritania. The appraisal mission agreed with Government
however, that there were too many inponderables regarding the pastoral and
agro-pastoral production syst-s and that an experimental LppjLach would be
more prudent.
17.       The cattle herds of Mauritania are owned by three main groups:
(a) traditional Maure pastoralists; (b) Maure traders and Government
officials who, since the great drought in 1972, have increasingly tended to
purchase cattle from traditional producers and have established large "new
herds" often herded by the former owner who has become a salaried herdsman;
and (c) the traditional Peul agro-pastoralists (Fulbe diesi et Fulbe wale)
who, although they have been in the country a long time, have no
traditional rights to land but are instead purchasing access to land from
the Maures. It is not certain who owns the largest part of the national
herd, but indications are that tihe traditional Maure pastoralists own a
small percentage perhaps as low as 20% and that the two other groups share
the rest about equally.
18.       Production system studies will bring improved understanding of
what  is going on.   The  low-cost traditional system of production  is
threatened with extinction.   Whatever new  system  emerges will almost
certainly have higher costs. Such a s7stem is also unlikely to be the
result of a natural "free market adjustment", since political forces are
clearly at work in the sector. The establishment of pastoral associations
may therefore -be the only means by which the traditional pastoralist
systems can survive to some extent - by organizing into self-sustaining
groups u-cufruct rights to their traditional grazing lands, collective
responsibility for their own economy including the improvement of their
grazing lands, and access to credit that would restore cattle ownership to
viable households in the associations and thus maintain the viability of
the group in the face of competition.



- 46 -
ANNMK 1-1
Page 6 of 6
19.       The  establishment  of pastoral  associations  demands  thorough
preparation consisting of a detailed socio-economic survey of the area,
pasture inventory, and assessmenu-,3ol stockwater points and traditional
rights. The survey team establishes contact with other pastoral groups in
the area and starts a dialogue with- them, culminating in the general
assembly which formally establishes  the association.   The  survey and
establishment are carried out by an interdisciplinary team of Nauritanian
professionals (a sociologist, a pastor4ist and a cartographer) assisted by
a consultant in anthropology and econ o cs.
20.       Experience so far shows that the first groups to be identified
normally consist of 30-50 families and their livestock. It would probably
take ten such groups to form an association of the desired size. Each of
these ten pastoral groups should be formally established and given training
in the new role, as well as the opportunity to handle a small revolving
fund for bas.ic supplies (tea, sugar and grain) before their consolidation
into an association is attempted.
21.       Once  the association  is established, responsibility for its
day-to-day servicing is transferred to the nearest regional livestock
center which requests from the department the necessary extension service
(pasture mmnagement, stockwater development and housing) and assists with
the provision of veterinary drugs and an-mal production inputs for sale.
22.       Each group will employ an agent selected from the group itself.
This agent will receive basic trailing in veterinary first aid from the
veterinary station and will become the contact between the group and the
nearest regional center. Onche the association is formed, its needs in
terms of pasture management-.rnd stockwater development will be assessed
through joint visits by the stockwater and range management officers from
the animal production division. The animAl production officer would visit
to advise on the use of minerals, feeds and feed supplements. The associa-
tion could buy inputs directly from BIE and would receive a commission on
sales to be used mainly for paying the agent, but also to establish a
common fund for maintenance of wells and other structures.
UAPAC
August 1985



- 47 -
ANNEX 1-2
page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUtBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LEGAL ASPECTS OF PASTORAL COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATIONS
A.        Introduction. A legal expert of the World Bank visited Mauritania
13-19 July 1984 and reviewed the legal aspects of the project.   His
findings are summarized below.
B.        Legal Texts.  The local Project Team (Direction de l'Elevage,
Ministare du Developpement Rural) opted in favor of the cooperative form of
organization. The Law on Cooperatives (Loi No. 67.171 du 18 juillet 1967
portant statut de la Cooperation) and its Regulations (D&cret No. 67.265 du
4 novembre 1967) provide an appropriate basis for the execution of the
Project. The following legal texts have been filed with the legal library:
(a)  Ordonnance No. 83.127 du 5 juin 1983 portant r6organisation
fonciere et domaniale;
(b) Decret No. 84.009 du 19 janvier 1984 portant application de
l'Ordonnance du 5 juin 1983;
(c) Ordonnance No. 82.171 portant Code Forestier;
(d) Loi No. 64.098 du 9 juin 1964 relative aux associations;
(e) Loi No. 73.157 modifiant la loi No. 64.098 du 9 juin 1964
relative aux associations;
(f)  Decret No. 48-76 du 3 mai 1976 fixant les attributions du
ministre  du  developpemenr  Rural  et  l'organisation  de
l'administration centrale de son departement;
(g)  Loi No. 67.171 du 18 juillet 1967 portant sta ut de la
cooperation; and
(h)  Decret No. 67.265 du 4 novembre 1967 en application de la
loi No. 67.171.
C. Special Features
1.        Especially attractive features are:
(a)  the 'groupement pre-cooperatif" during the initial period of
at least two years, during which simplified accounting and
financial information procedures are applicable and special
organizational assistance is provided by the Ministry of
Rural Development ('MRD");
(b) continued availability of assistance by the cooperative
service of the MRD;



- 48 -
ANNEX 1-2
page 2 of 3
(c)  existence of the cooperative credit system; and
(d)  exoneration of taxes and administrative charges.
One important aspect is that cooperatives come under the supervision of the
MRD, the Ministry responsible for the Project, while Associations come
under r.e authority of the Ministry of Interior.  The NDR has developed a
complete list of prototype documents (that can be adapted to particular
pur7oses) for use by prospective cooperators to create and establish a
cooperative.
2.        The second key aspect of the Project is that the cooperatives
will be given preferential rights to their grazing lands in return for the
obligation to maintain and develop these lands. The preparation document
proposed to accomplish this through the grant of land use rights ("droits
d'usage"). A new law on land ownership was enacted (Ord. No. 83.127 du 3
juin 1983 portant reorganisation fonci6re et domaniale), as well as imple-
menting Regulations (Decret No. 84.009 du 19 janvier 1984).  The principal
feature of these texts is that they abolish all traditional forms of land
ownership (based variously on tribal, ethnic and social factors) and opt in
favor of Islamic law ("Charia"). The texts translate some key (but vague)
principles of the Charia in more or less specific terms, the unt result of
which, and this result is very clearly stated, is that all vacant and
undeveloped lands belong to the State.
3.        Much of the Ordonnance and Decret are devoted to the implementa-
tion of the abolition of traditional forms of ownership (through "indivi-
dualization" of lands held formerly by local chiefs or notables and used by
the community) and to the manner of transfer of ownership of State lands.
For the Project, the principal features are:
(a) that the great variety of traditional forms of ownership no
longer constitutes an obstacle, as most of these lands now
belong to the State;
(b) in instances where traditional ownership was acquired in
accordance with the criteria of the Ordonnance and Decret,
and therefore legally protected (Decret, Art. 2), the
normally obligatory individualization can be avoided through
formation of a cooperative (Decret, Art. 21); and
(c)  the Government can deal with its own lands as it sees fit
and the possibility of leasing them is expressly recognized
(!Mcret, Art. 23).
Consequently, most of the land rights to be given to pastoral cooperatives
under the Project will be in the form of leases, which can specify all
necessary conditions for proper management and development of the lands and
all third-party rights (e.g., access of others under drought conditions).
4.        Another important piece of land legislation is the Forestry Code.
The Forestry Code  (Ord. No.  82.171  du 15 decembre  1982 portant Code



- 49 -
ANNEX 1-2
page 3 of 3
Forestier)  is unusually broad in application:  it applies not only to
traditional forests, but also to "formations veggtales" that yield certain
materials such as bark or tannin (Art. 2), and to all places where land
clearing is prohibited, which include Inter alia hillsides, banks of
rivers, degraded fields near water wells and, generally, all "perimentres de
protection" and "perimetres de reboisement" (Arts. 3, 4, 11, 15). The Code
recognizes certain land use rights, including the use of land for grazing
by animals (Art. 24-3). These rights are circumscribed in various ways,
depending on whether the lands fall under the "doinaine prote_g" (Arts. 29,
30) or the "domaine classe" (Arts. 31 through 37).  Vacant "forests",
"forests" that have not been exploited and maintained for five years,
"forets class6es" and "perimetres de reboisement 'classes"' are declared to
be owned by the State (Art. 1). In this respect, the Forestry Code is the
forerunner of the Land Reform Law (para 2 supra). Its interest for the
Project is obvious: even though it contains some very restrictive provi-
sions, which could conceivably be turned against the Project (e.g. in the
"domaine classe" grazing may be allowed but without the possibility for the
herders to pitch their tents there - Art. 32, and no land use rights are
allowed in the "perizmtres de reboisement" - Art. 35), on Government-owned
lands and in the "domaine protege", priority rights can be accorded. The
manner in which this is to be accomplished is through application of the
Land Reform Law on all lands that under the Forestry Code belong to the
State or through specific acts of "reglementation forestie-e" (which could
be 'arretes" of the Governor of the region concerne d or of the Minister of
Rural Development) for lands in the "domaine protiEg".
5.        The overall conclusion on the matters discussed above is that the
existing legislation and reglementation provide a workable legal framework
for the execution of the Project. The specifics of the organization of
pastoralists and the manner and conditions in which lands will be put at
their disposal will have to be determined in each case on the basis of the
detailed investigation ("engufte") of local conditions that will be carried
out under the Project for each potential group of beneficiaries. In the
event supplemental regulatory texts should be required in individual
instances, they can be prepared by the services of the MRD in cooperation
with other competent authorities (as is already current practice). In any
case, each specific instance of pastoral grouping and the conveyance of
attendant rights to Government-owned lands will, in view of the vast areas
concerned, and the importance for the population involved, be the basis of
a report made by the Minister of MRD. Consequently, there is no need to
have texts prepared as conditions of negotiations or effectiveness. In the
proposed PPF request, the legal assistance component can therefore safely
be eliminated.
UAPAC
August 1985



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BIF[iGET OF THE DIRECTORATE OF LIVESTOCK AND
REGIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICES
(millions of UM)
1984                  1985
Directorate of Livestock
Vaccines/Drugs                                    10.0                    9.0
Materials for field trips                          0.1                    0.1
Gasoline/oil                                       0.9                    1.3
Commtnications                                     0.1                    0.1
Paper, forms                                       0.3                    0.2
Travel                                             0.1                    0.1
Vehicle maintenance                                0.9                    1.3
Miscellaneous                                      0.1                    0.1
12.5                  12.2
Regional Livestock Stations
Gasoline and oil                                   2.5                    2.6
Water and electricity                              0.3                    0.2
Communications                                     0.1                    0.1
Paper, forms                                       0.3                    0.3
Materials for field trips                          0.2                    0.2
Travel                                             2.0                    1.6
Vehicle maintenance                                2.5                    2.4
7.9                   7.4
TOTAL                                             20.4                   19,6
Source: Directorate of Livestock
WAPAC
August 1985



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-1
page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SYSTEMS STUDIES, MONITORING AND PROJECT PREPARATION
1.        Although this is the second IDA-financed livestock project (five
other past or ongoing projects of a similar nature were financed by other
donors) we know very little about the micro-economics of livestock produc-
tion in Maurit-.nia.  The DNE would correct this situation by planning and
executing a multidisciplinary study of existing livestock production
systems and by formulating a livestock development strategy to be submitted
to Governmeut for approval. It would subsequently plan follow-on inter-
ventions in the subsector for financing by international donors.
2.        The systems study would be carried out in five locations selected
for being representative of:
(a) camel production;
(b) predominantly small-scock production (two sites); and
Cc) predominantly cattle production (two sites).
In each site the team would carry out a household survey with regard to
property, income, gifts, loans, links to other groups and emergency
strategy. In each of the five locations the CNERV would carry out simulta-
neously with the above household surveys, surveys of:
(a)  viral diseases in small ruminants;
(b) mortality in young stock;
(c) the use of supplementary feeding in the dry season; and
(d) herd structures in cattle and small stock.
In addition, CNERV would at the request of DNE carry out a minimum of two
serological surveys to ascertain the effective immunity against Rinderpest
and Pleuropneumonia following the annual vaccination campaign. At the same
time CNERV carry out spot checks for infectious abortions, and other
diseases.
3.        The Office of Agricultural Statistics of the Ministry of Rural
Development (CT/MDR) would be associated with a data collection and
analysis in accordance with a contract to be established with the DNE. The
project would finance international technical assistance in the form of the
visits of one or more consultants from the International Livestock Center
for Africa (ILCA) which has considerable experience in the planning,
execution and analysis of livestock systems studies.



-52'-
ANNEX 3-1
page 2 of 2
4.        The team would be headed by an international livestock specialist
with experience in systems monitoring. He would coordinate all planning
and execution of the work and would, together with the Mauritanian consul-
tant in agricultural economics, be responsible for the formulation of a
livestock development strategy proposal and the design of follow-on
projects.
5.        In addition,  the team would establish the key indicators for
project execution in agreement with the supervision mission and carry out
quarterly  monitoring  of  project  implementation.   In  the  process  of
assembling this information, the team would draft the quarterly progress
report of the DNE and submit it to the Director of DNE for his approval and
submission to the NDR and IDA.
6.        The timetable for submission of the output would be:
(a) description of livestock production systems by the end of
project year 3;
(b) livestock development strategy paper to Government six
months later; and
(c) follow-up interventions six months after that.
WAPAC
August 1985



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-2
page 1 of 4
ISTAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LrVESTOCK PROJECT
LIVESTOCK INPUT DISTRIBUTION UNIT
(Bureau des Intrants pour l'Elevage (BIE))
Objective
1.        BIE will offer livestock inputs for sale (drugs, vaccines, feed
and selected other inputs). It will do so on a commercial basis, i.e., it
will recover the full cost of its products, including allowances for
inflation and indirect costs (for example depreciation). The methodology
for fixing its prices is explained in paras 6-7 below.
2.        BIE will not have a trading monopoly.  The private sector has
full freedom to import and offer for sale the same or similar products to
those offered by BIE, subject only to conditions relating to quality
control and technical aspects of the merchandise. However, Government will
refrain from distributing the same or similar products as offered by BIE
either against payment or free of charge.  Government will channel all
external assistance in kind of BIE-type products or in cash for the
purchase of such products through BIE, which may refund to Government the
counterpart value net of its expenses.
Autonomy
3.        BIE is autonomous in the conduct of its business and in all its
financial affairs.  Its supervisory ministry (Minist&re de Tutelle) is the
Ministry of Rural Development. It will be managed by a Commercial and
Financial Director (for terms of reference see Annex 3-7). He will have
full autonomy in all aspects of the conduct of BIE's business, including
price policy, financial affairs and personnel management.
4.        A Supervisory Committee would oversee BIE activities (para 5.06
of the SAR).  It would normally meet only once a year to approve the
accounts and the annual report. Under exceptional circumstances, however,
it may meet more frequently to discuss specific aspects of BIE operations.
The Supervisory Committee has no authority, hovever, to change the princi-
ples of BIE operations, in particular regarding the fixing of its sales
prices, its commercial policy and the application of its financial and
other resources.
Operating Principles
5.        These are explained in paras 3.20-3.23 of the SAR.  Of particular
importance are:
(a) the strict separation of kIE's accounts from those of any
other entity;
(b) the systematic application of cost accounting;



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-2
page 2 of 4
(c) the separate and up-to-date administration of each of the
two revolving funds (veterinary products and feed);
(d)  the timely deposit of the DNE margins in the Livestock Fund;
(e) the correct setting of sales prices; and
(f) the control of field transactions and the timely recupera-
tion of sales proceeds.
Price Setting
6.        Prices will be set to fully recover the replacement value of the
merchandise in question.   This implies that the price will contain a
provision for inflation plus a provision for exchange rate fluctuations if
needed, plus a provision for unforeseen expenses. Adequate provisions for
losses at all levels of the distribution chain will be included.  In
addition, the retail sales price will include a margin to compensate DNE
for its services in accordance with para 5.04 of the SAR. A schematic
presentation of the composition of retail prices for veterinary products
and for feed is attached.
7.        The autonomy of BIE  includes retail price setting for its
products. Prices determined by BIE in accordance with the provisions of
the project documents (SAR and working papers) or legal documents (credit
agreement) are not subject to approval by any other Government entity, nor
has any such entity the authority to change them.
Livestock Fund
8.        BIE has no responsibility for the management of the Livestock
Fund. Its responsibility ends with the timely dei.osit of the DNE margins
contained in the retail prices.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-2
page 3 of 4
MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SCHEMATIC PRESENTATION OF THE COMPOSITION OF VETERINARY DRUG RETAIL PRICES
Item                                              Z of c.i.f.       Destination
price          after sale
(estimate)
Price c.i.f. central warehouse                        100           veterinary drug
revolving fund
Storage and maintenance cost at
central warehouse
Losses during storage                                               veterinary drug
revolving fund
15
Transport costs to veterinary stations
Losses during transport
Price delivered veterinary station                    115
Margin for inflation, exchange rates
fluctuations and unforeseen                            10           veterinary drug
revolving fund
Margin for risks/losses and
remuneration of veterinary
station personnel                                      9.9          chief
veterinary
station
Margin for activities of veterinary stations          23.8          livestock
development
fund
Retail salee price                                   158.7
a/ Equals 6.25 percent of retail sales price.
b/ Equals 15 percent of retail sales price.
WAPAC
August 1985



- 56 -
ANNE 3-2
page    of 4
MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SCHEMATIC PRESENTATION OF THE CONPOSITION OF ANIMAL FEED RETAIL PRICES
Item                                         Z of c.i.f                   Destination
price                        after
(estimate)                      sale
Price c.i.f. Mauritania                          100
Transit costs                                     10
Transport costs to veterinary
stations                                          20
feed
revolving
fund
Losses during transit and
transport                                          7
Price delivered veterinary station               137                         feed
revolving
Margin for inflation, exchange risks                                         fund
and unforeseen                                    10
Margin for risks/losses and remuneration                                     chief
of veterinary station personnel                  11.7                     veterinary
station
Margin for activities veterinary                                           livestock
stations                                         28.0                     development
fund
Retail sales price                              186.7
a/ Equals 6.25 percent of retail sales price
b/ Equals 15 percent of retail sales price.
WAPAC
August 1985



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STRENGTHENING OF LIVESTOCK SERVICES
FIELD STAFF NUMBERS AND COST a/
(cost in tooo UN; October 1983 prices)
B
Categories     A                        Project years
S
E
0        1             2            3            4            5       Totals
1986/87      1987/88       1988/89      1989/90     1990/91
Nb   Nb    Cost   Nb    Cost   Nb    Cost  Nb    Cost  Nb        Cost   Costs
Veterinarians   0    1      832    1      832    1     832   1      832   1       832    4160
Engineers       0    2      827    2      827    2     827   2      827   2       827    4135
Assistants      18   13    3995   13    3995   15    4610  17    5224  17        5224   23048
Vaccinators     8   16    3452   16    3452   18    3882  20    4314  20         4314   19414
Secretaries     2    3      821    3      821    3     821   3      821   3       821    4105
Drivers         12   16    3117   16    3117   18    3507  20    3896  20        3896   17533
Manual labor   32   16    1001   16    1001   18    1127  20    1252  20         1252    5633
14045        14045         15606        17166        17166   78028
ss==          =c=          e==e-=  
Source: Working Paper, 0. Bremaud (file 221.904 BI), October 1983.
a/ Does not include headquarters staff.
WAPAC
August 1985



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
INVESTHENTS IN INFRASTRUCTURE AND BUILDINGS
(Costs in 1,000 UM; October 1983 prices)
NATURE OF WORKS TO BE DONE
Place                  construction           addition       adaptation    modernization            dam/well           Total
yr   Cost           yr   Cost         yr   Cost          yr   Cost        yr   Cost             Cost
A. SOUTH-WEST
Rosso                                         1    625          1     30          1   1000                               1655
Mederdra                                      1    625          1     30          1    500                               1155  1
R'Kiz                                         1    625          1     20                            1    900             1545  "
Boutilimit                                    2    625          1     30          1    500                               1155 X
Keurmacene               4   3150                                                                                        3150  1
Bogne                                                           1     30          2   1200                               1230
Aleg                                          2    625          1     20          2    500                               1145
Magta Lakjar                                  2    625          1     20                                                  645
Dar El Barka             4   3150                                                                                        3150
Bababe                   5   3150                                                                                        3150
Mal                      5   3150                                                                                        3150
Kaedi                                                          2      30          2   1500                               1530
Mounguel                                      3    625          2     20                            2    900             1545
M'Bout                                        3    625          2     20          3    600                               1245
Maghama                                       3    625          2     20          3    600                               1245
Moudjeria                                     4    625          2     20          3    500                               1145  
Barkeol                                       4    625         2      20                            2    900             1545   m
SUB-TOTAL SOUTH-WEST        12600                 6875               310              6900              2700           29385  o
N"



B. SOUTH-EAST
Kiffa                                                           2     35          3   1500                               1535
Kankossa                                                        2     35          3    500                                535
Boumdeit                                                        2     35          5    300                                335
Guerdu                                        2    750          2     35                                                  785
Aloun El Atrouss                                                1     40          1   1500                               1540
Tamchakftt                                    5    750          1     40          5    300                               1090
Tintane                                                         3     40                                                   40
Kobeini                                                         3     40                                                   40
Nema                                                            3     45          3   1500                               1545
Timbedgha                                                       3     45          3    500                                545
Bacikounou                                    3    800          3     45          3    300                               1145
AmourJ                                        3    750          3     45                                                  795 >
Oualata                                                         4     45                                                   45
Djigueni                                                        4     45                                                   45
Adel Bagaou                                                     4     45                                                   45
Selibabi                                                       4      45          5    500                                545
Ould Yenge  .fed.                                               4     35                                                   35
SUB-TOTAL SOUTH-EAST                              3050               695               6900                             10645
TOTAL                       12600                 9925              1005              13800             2700           40030
Z==3=                 am==             no=               wom -   -          *w-*--
Source: Working Paper, 0. Bremaud (file 221.904 Bi)
WAPAC
August 1985



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
INVESTMENT IN VEHICLES, COLD CIAIN AND VETERINARY EQUIPMENT a/
(Cost in 1,000 UM; October 1983 prices)
PROJECT YEARS
Categories and place                            1              2              3              4             5        Total
1986/87        1987/88        1988/89        1989/90      1990/91
Nb   Cost      Nb   Cost      Nb   Cost      Nb   Cost    Nb   Cost       Costs
VEHICLES
Regional inspection, mobile teams           3    781       3    781       3    781       3    781      3    781       3905
Pastoral centers                           13   3383      13   3383      15   3904      17   4424    17   4424       19518
Reserve                                     3    781       3    781       3    781       3    781      3    781       3905
S/Total vehicles                           19   4945      19   4945      21   5466      23   5986    23   5986       27328    °
COLD CHAIN
Regional inspections - lot A                3    396       3    396       3    396       3    396      3    396       1980
Pastoral centers - lot B                   13    429      15    495      15    495      17    569    17    569        2557
Mobile teams - lot C                       16    182      18    205      18    205      20    228    20    228        1048
S/Total cold chain                              1007           1096           1096           1193          1193       5585
VETERINARY EQUIPMENT
Regional inspections - lot 1                3     65       3     65       3     65       3     65      3     65        325
Pastoral centers - lot 2                   13    105      15    122      15    122      17    139    17    139         627
Mobile teams - lot 3                       16     48      18     54      18     54      20     60    20      60        276   ° lJ
S/Total veterinary equipment                     218            241            241            264           264       1228
Source: Working Paper, 0. Bremaud (file 221.904 B1)
a/ For details of "lot 1-3" and "lot A-C" see page 2.



ANNEX 3-5
-61-                               Page 2 of 2
NATERU3L TECHNIQW                              UNITES
Lot I          Lot 2        Lot 3
Inspection      Centre        Equipes
Rfgionale      Pastora1.     mobiles
Caec.teurj
Rechaud petrole                     2               1
Jerricans                           6               2             1
Filtres 20 litres                   2               1
Balance Roberval                     I
Tr6buchet                           1               1
R&cipients pour sterilisation       4               2
Botte coton                          1
Plateaux                            2               1
Seringues automatiques              5               2             1
Seringues 20cc                      5               2             1
Aiguilles 45-15-10 Bte 12           6               2            1
Aiguilles 40-10-15 Bte 12          10               4            2
Aiguilles Reverdin                  2               1            1
Manches bistouri                    6               2            1
Lames bistouri                     50              10            5
Ciseaux droits                      2               1            1
Ciseaux courbes                     3               2            1
Sondes cannelees                    2               1            1
Pinces de Kocher                    5               2            1
Pinces a castrer GA                 1               1            1
Pinces a castrer PA                 1               1            1
Pinces a marquer                    2               1            1
Thermoimetres                       2               1            1
Flacons plastiques 200 cc          10               2            1
Flacons plastiques  50 cc          10               2            1
lot A.: 2 cong_ateurs, 2 r_friggrateurs, 3 containers (3 lots A) -
lot B: 1 congelateur, 1 r'frigerateur, 2 containers (17 lots B) -
lot C:  1 congelateur transportable, l container      (20 lots C) -
renouvellement de 16 lots C en annie 4



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-6
page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Terms of Reference of Project Coordinator/Financial Controller at
DNE.
1.        The expert would be responsible for:
(a) coordinating project implementation in accordance with the
agreements reached at negotiations, and in legal documents
and Staff Appraisal Report;
(b) establishing, in cooperation with the accountant seconded
from the Ministry of Finance, the budget preparation proce-
dure for the DNE as well as a budget accounting system for
monitoring operational expenditures;
(c) training the DNE accountant in the preparation of withdrawal
applications and procurement of goods and services under the
procedures of the respective financing agencies;
*d) proposing, in agreement with the Director of Livestock and
the Heads of the Animal Production and the Animal Health
Divisions, modifications to project implementation as
required; and
*e) co-signing with the Director General of DNE all checks drawn
on the special account.
2.        The expert should have at least five years of professional
experience and should have worked extensively in West Africa. He should be
fluent in French and English and proficient in the writing of English.
B. Draft Terms of Reference of the Construction Engineer.
1.        The expert wou'ld be responsible for:
(a) preparation of work plans and tender documents for all civil
works for DNE and BIE in accordance with IDA guidelines and
advising the Director General of DNE in procedures regarding
international and local competitive bidding;
(b) designing and supervising the construction of the eight new
Veterinary Field Stations;
(c) supervising execution of civil works contracts except well
construction, which would be supervised by the Stockwater
Specialist and the Well Construction Foreman; and



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-6
page2  of 4
(d)  establishing a DNE property inventory making it possible to
monitor the maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment
as ull as adequate property control.
2.        The expert would have a minimum of five years of professional
experience and selection criteria would emphasize practical experience
under field conditions elsewhere in West Africa. He must be fluent in
spoken and written French and have at least a working knowledge of spoken
English.
3.       A total of 3 man-years of work is estimated, but whereas the
first year is expected to be full-time, it is possible that the supervision
period could profitably be split into several shorter or longer periods of
consultancy.
C. Draft Terms of Reference of the Rural Engineer.
1.       The consultant would be responsible for:
(a) assisting and training the Production Improvement Officer in
the development and preparation of projects for financing by
the Production Improvement Fund in close collaboratio± with
the interested groups of pastoralists; and
(b)  supt.  -ing the execution of approved projects as well as
the pa-cicipation of the pastoralists, recommending the
cancellation of projects where such participation is not
forthcoming.
2.       The consultant must have considerable experience in sMall rural
constructions in West Africa and a proven ability to work with rural
populations, and must be fluent in written and spoken French.
D. Draft Terms of Reference of the Stockwater Specialist.
1.       The consultant would be responsible for:
(a) assisting and training the two stockwater officers assigne.
to the Stockwater Section by the Animal Production Division
in field work and collaboration with pastoral groups;
(b) assisting and training the stockwater officers in drafting
the contract with the Water Affairs Department for the
construction of wells for the Pastoral Cooperative Associa-
tions; and
(c) assisting and training the stockwater officers in super-
vising, with the assistance of the Well Construction
Foreman, the execution of the contract as well as the
mandated contribution of the pastoral associations.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-6
page 3- of 4
2.        The consultant must have a degree in Water Supply Engineering and
several years of practical experience, preferably in West Africa, and must
be fluent in spoken and written French.
E. Draft Terms of Reference of the Range Management Specialist.
1.        The consultant would be responsible for:
(a) assisting and training the Range Management Officer of DNE
in his task of advising the pastoral cooperative associa-
tions and groups in the preservation of their grazing areas;
(b) assisting the pastoralists in designing projects for
financing under the Production Improvement Fund; and
(c) being an information resource for the DNE, the Systems
Studies and Monitoring Team and the Pastoral Association
Establishment Team.
2.        The consultant must have a degree in Range Management and prac-
tical experience in working w:th pastoral groups, preferably in West
Africa. He must be fluent in spoken French and have a working knowledge of
English.
F. Draft Terms of Reference of Teamleader, Systems Studies and Monitoring
Team.
1.        The expert would be responsible for:
(a) planning and coordination of the studies and the monitoring
program in collaboration with the Director of CNERV and the
Agricultural Statistics Office of the MDR;
(b) recruitment of the national team of professionals and
selection of the international and local consultants and the
drafting of their terms of reference;
(c) training of the study team in system study procedures, data
collection and analysis and the monitoring of project
implementation and impact;
(d) guiding and participating in the report writing of the team
and the preparation of policy papers and projects; and
(e) training one of the team members to take over his functions
as teamleader.
2.        The expert must have a degree in agricultural economics, veteri-
nary science or animal production and field experience in the study of
livestock production systems and monitoring, preferably in West Africa. He
must be fluent in spoken and written French and have a working knowledge of
English.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-6
page 4 of 4
G. Draft Terms of Reference of the Well Construction Foreman.
1.        The consultant in close collaboration with the Stockwater
Specialist would be responsible for:
(a) assisting and training the Stockwater Officer as "chef de
travaux" for the well construction program for pastoral
cooperative associations, as well as for pastoral groups
financed by the Production Improvement Fund;
(b) representing the DNE in supervising the execution of the
contract with the Water Affairs Department;
(c) being the subject matter specialist for well construction
and as such assist the Stockwater Section in cooperation
with the pastoralists to identify the need for and the
extent and feasability of repair to a well; and
(d) providing training in well maintenance for the associations
and other pastoral groups.
2.        The consultant should have considerable practical experience of
vell construction in Africa and be prepared to spend long periods in the
field under camp conditions. He should be fluent in French.
H.   Detailed Terms of Reference for the Director of Studies and for
short-term consultants for the training program at the ENFVA are found
in the working document (Project File No. 221.904 (C2)).
I.   Draft Terms of Reference for the Commercial and Financial Director of
BIE are found in Annex 5-2.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-7
page 1 of 2
MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.   Function: Commercial and Financial Director of the "Bureau des
Intrants pour 1' Elevage" (BIE).
2.   Duration: three years, with possible extension to five years.
3.   Immediate Supervisor:  Director of Livestock.
4.   Duties:
(a) The Director will be responsible for the overall management
of BIE, including all commercial and financial affairs in
accordance with the provisions of the IDA credit agreement.
In this he will have a great deal of autonomy.
(b) In general, the Director will see to it that BIE conducts
its business according to the description given in the
project documents (SAR and working papers) and the legal
documents  (credit agreement).   In case  of contradictory
provisions, the legal documents will prevail.
(c) Specifically, the Director will be responsible for:
i) commercial policy: determining supply sources on the
basis of comparison of conditions, quality and suita-
bility of products; quantities to be stocked at retail
outlets; location of retail outlets; promotional
activities; monitoring of sales volumes against projec-
tions; etc.;
ii) price setting: determination of prices of individual
products to allow recovery of full cost plus a margin
for DNE activities (see SAR); redetermination of prices
after arrival of each shipment of new supplies;
iii) cost control:   assuring that BIE's business is con-
ducted as efficiently as possible at the lowest cost;
iv) financial management: control and supervision of all
financial streams relating to BIE, in particular sales
receipts at fields stations and the Livestock Fund;
v) administration: control and supervision of the entire
administration with particular emphasis on the adminis-
tration of stocks  (including field stocks)  and the
application of cost accounting; maintaining separate
and up-to-date accounts for BIE,  including separate
accounts for each of the two revolving funds, as well
as the Livestock Fund enabling an immediate determina-
tion of their status;



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-7
page 2 of 2
vi) reporting:   production  of monthly  profit  and  loss
accounts and balance sheets including a statement on
the status of the two revolving funds and the Livestock
Fund; publication of bi-annual progress reports and a
full annual report; and
vii) other: personnel management; ensuring the proper use
of equipment and materials; on-the-job training of
personnel as needed; all other normal aspects of the
conduct of a commercial enterprise.
5.   Qualifications:  To be evaluated on the basis of education and past
activities and performance. An advanced degree in an appropriate
discipline is expected.
6.  Experience:   Three  years minimum  in  a relevant field  in Africa
required.
7.  Age:  Minimum 30 years.
8.  Lanunage:  Fluency in French.  Knowledge of Arabic and/or English
would be an advantage.
9.   Duty Station:  Nouakchott, Mauritania.
10. Entry on Duty: Not later than July 1986.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
(US* million)                                        SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement
IDA FY                  QVARTER                      BY QUARTER                  CUMULATIVE
1987                           Ia                          08                            0.8                8
I I I                         0.3                            30O
IV                           0.4                           13 
1988                           I                           0.3                           2.0                                                      -
11                           0.3                           2.3 °
III                           0.3                           2.6 8,
IV                           0.4                           3,0                6 
1989                           1                           0.4                           3.4 7
II                           0.3                             7
III                           0.1                            .0                 5 5
IV                           0.4                           4.4 7
1990                         11                            0.4                           4.8             a            ,
II                   ~~~~~~0.3                      5.              'n4                       F
I  0Y3 5.8   P
IV                           0.3                           5.7             /4
1992                           I                           0.2                           7.0                2
1I                           0,2                           7.21
III 0_ 
IV                           0.N                           7.4                 1       /
1993                           I                           0.1                           7.5
II                    0.1~~~~Ol                     7.6
____________________________________________________FY87  'FY8'8   'FY89   'FY90     FY91   IFY92     FY93
8/ sumes credit effectiveness in August 1986. Includes refinancinR of PPF                                               Profile k
.JVS$ ,500,000) and Initial d or  auiD)Prjc
b/   'a surm        ro aue  dapodi  arfnc'!Nluont(US    rehit types combined,
date  9    a1
WAPAC
November 1985



MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Summary Account by Pro ect Component
(UN '000i
SYSTEMS
STUDIES                           STRENSTHENING OF LIVESTOCK SERVICES
MONITORING AND
PASToRAL        PROJECT    DISTRIBUSION                    ANIMAL       ANIMAL
ASSOCIATIONM    PRIPARATION      INPITS       MANAGEMENT      HEALTH    PRODUCTION   TRAINING   ABATTOIR       PPF        TOTAL
I. INVESTCENT OOSTS
Y1L WRK CW)                               -              *                            -    70,801.6              *    4,013.6   39,851.1          *  134,666.3
B. STOCKWATER DEVELOPHENT (WE)   85,987.8                                -            -            -             -          -           -         -   85,987.8
C. EQUIZPHE   (EQ)                        -       4,684.5           717.5       8,328.0     6,123.2       4,164.0    7,026.3            -         -   31 043.4
D, VEHICLES (VH)                          -       3,745.8         2,709.6       4,120.4    24,347.7      11,237.4    7,317.5    5,520.0           -   568996.4
E. T.A. AND CONSULTANTS (TA)       16,481.5      41,141.4        23,006.3      39,851.2    23,4.1,3      17,480.4   24,868.8    9,131.0           -  195,371.7
F. STUDIES (ST)                           -      50,784.1                *                   -                   -          -           -         -   50,764.1
0. INPUTS (IN)                                           -       90,428.2             -            -             -          *    2,212.0          *   92,640.2
He PROD. ItMROVEMENT FUND (PI)                           *               *            -            -     55,289.7           -           -         .   55,289.7
l. SCHOLARHIPS (TR)                                      -              -                          *      -          24,984.1          -          -   24,984.1
J. REPAYMENT PPF (PP)                                           -                                  -             -          -           -  41,200.0   41,200.0
K. UNALLOCATED (UA)                       -              -               *     15,120.0            *             *          -           -         -   15,120.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               102,469.3     100,355.7       116,861.6    167,419.5   124.683.8       88,171.5   68,210.1   76,714.1  41,200.0  786,065.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
zQULrmf mMENr sRAiuN tEO)                              -               -             -    18,774.0             -       477.8          -          *   19,251.8
VEHICLE OPERATION (VO)                           2,086.0         3,622.5       1,877.4    20,338.5       6,258.0           -           *         -   34,182.4
LOCAL PERSONNEL (LP)                     -      15,543.9        11,877.0      13,041.0    19,845.0      34,770.8       678.4          -          -   95,756.1
MISCEUANEOUS (MA)                                1,201.8         3,030,5       3,657.5      1,202.0      1,202.0   21,372.4            -         -   31,646.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                               18,831.7       18,530.0      18,575.9    60,159.5      42,230.8   22,528.6            -         -  180,856.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                 102,469.3      119,187.4      135,391.6      85,995.4   184,843.3    130,402.2   90,738.7   76,714.1  41,200.0  966,942.0
PhysLeal Contingencies              10,246.9      10,763.0        17,241.4       6,476.6    22,361.8       4,615.4   10,650.5   10,774.6           -   93,130.1
Price ContLngencLes                 28,482.3      29,000.9        32,669.8      19,495.0    63,348.2      40,410.4   23,182.2   20,620.1           -  257,408.3
Implementation Delay Cont.                 *              -               -    120,000.0            -            -           -           -         -  120,000.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                  141,198.5      158,951.2      185,502.8    239,967.1   270,553.3    175,428.0  124,571.5  108,106.7  41,200.0 1,445,480.9
Forelgn Exchange                 120,588.5      100,646.3       162,914.3    149,689.7   148,616.3       82,353.7   83,712.4   82,046.5  41,200.0  971,767.6
WAPAC
November# 1985I
00



- 71) -                             ANNEX 4-3
rMRTANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project(Compnents by Year
Total
Base Costs                   (US$
86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91            Million)
9      _-       _       _   =z-          __
A. PASTORAL ASSOCIATIONS         29.3   15.6   17.8   17.8   22.0    102.5        1.3
B. SYSTEMS STUDIES, MONITORING
AND PROJECT PREPARATION       42.5   19.9   34.0   17.7    5.2    119.2        1.5
C. DISTRIBUTION INPUTS           46.7   26.2   26.0   18.3   18.3    135.4        1.7
D. STRENGTHENING OF
LIVESTOCK SERVICES
MANAGEMENT                    38.2   11.5   11.5   11.5   13.2      86.0       1.1
ANIMAL HEALTH                26.5   36.9   54.6   41.4   25.5    184.8         2.3
ANIMAL PRODUCTION             32.4   26.8   23.0   23.0   25.1    130.4        1.6
TRAINING                      19.1   35.6   17.7   12.4    5.9      90.7       1.1
Sub-Total STRENGTheNl   OF
LIVESTOCK SERVICES   116.3  110.8  106.8   88.3   69.8   492.0          6.1
E. ABATTOIR                         -   26.6   47.8    2.2       -     76.7       1.0
F. PPF                           41.2      -      -      -       -     41.2       0.5
Total BASELINE COSTS            275.9  199.0  232.5  146.3  115.2    966.9       12.1
Physical Contingencies       22.8   20.7   24.4   14.4   1G.8       93.1       1.2
Price Contingencies           18.9   38.7   70.5   63.5   65.7    257.4        3.2
Implementation Delay Cont.  128.0       -      -      -      -    128.0        1.6
Total PROJECT COSTS             445.6  258.4  327.4  222.3  191.8  1,445.5       18.1
Foreign Exchange            316.2  176.0  229.9  133.4  116.3    971.8        12.1
WAPAC
November, 1985.



>  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r------___                           l_
P--o
------  -   -  - -  - -  - -  -   - - - -
r----------____4
§l'~~~~ lii
T-S-----L-- -
r   ~~~rl
XHNEY              - I~~~~L-4



- 72 -
ANNE 5-2
SEOND u M     PnM
Implemntation Schedule.  w10r ACtiviies (PM-Y6)
Proect Yer                 n o           FT I          Pr 2           nZ 3          Fi 4         Prn 5 .
Year                     l965-8S        19W8F1        1987-86        l!68-69       1969-         1990-91
Qugeer                 1         IvIn    m  wu      unI 1 mivuII    muvIIn       nivirz       mnrviII
CREDIT PROCSSDIC CM
bard                                  .1                                                  _
Nea tiate Ie  Section:
Stock  tte r      n.2m.T. _ mSctos
Rural  gneer                               1 
Tee Leader (Economist) 
Suvey Speciallit
cowV Contract                                                                                _
AG. Stat Contract                                    -
Survey Report                                                                      draft ffn f
Policy Report
Project Preparati                                                                               S
Mid-Term Review
INPU DISIBUTOIIO1
BIE Establishment
BIE Operations
Livestock Fund
Lvsol SERVICC
Civil works Contract                           P      Bconstrtion
Comtruction Edcnuto
Director of Studies
Tlnir lg Director
Gonult nts                   v
Civil works                      _}relp aid           cons trllctlon 
Trrg                                         yI                                  _ 



?mAUC REW'ILIC OF 14t1IANIA
-Em 1J Vr
PiW:l =IS OF REU   R KaHEM LIWlSIVOC F    (LF) l AM SPM7A I lrm  FE
(adLUIcM of cupdyas unleu othernlm irdicated; 1985 cautmnt prices PI)
1986/87           1987/88           1988/89           1989/90          1990/91
ad later
Ramiue frc  vaccinstinm aMinot rirderpest mwl ClP 
tAiber of vwcLnaetis (X 1000)                                    200                250               300               300              380
Margin above the full cost ex-veterlnary station
(IM per dse)                                                      20                20                 20               20                20
Reveue for LF                                                    4.0               5.0                6,0              6.0               6.0
RPieu frmc   the sale of vaterinan drss wd vaccines other
than vaccines against rinderpent mid CP
Total value at cost prices, veterinary statiacs                  8.4               14.0              19.6              25.2             30.0
Id. of vaccines against rirderpeat ad CBIP b/                    2.0               2.5                3.0              3.5               4.0
Value of sales other than tle   aint rIlrerpest wd
COPP                                                             6.4               11.5              16.6             21.7              26.0
Margin for [Y equals 15Z of turrever or 18Z of the cost
price ex-veterinary statics                                      1.1               2.0                2.9              3.8               4.6
Rvauie frou  the sale of aiiul feed
Value of males at cost price ex-veterinary staticr              22.4               30.8              39.2             52.1              56.0
Margin for IF equals 15Z of turnrer or 111
of cost prices ex-veterinazy station                             4.0               5.4                6.9,             9.2              10.0
Raevem    fran Mspela Ijprt fee              ~~                                     
Private setor lqprts (c.l.f. cost)                              15.0               15.0              15.0              15.0             15.0
Special Import fee 92                                            1.4                1.4               1.4               1.4              1.4
Total rever'e for tF fran aUl smrces                            10.5               13.8              17.2             20.4              22.0
a/  crtant prices are to be converted accordfiE to an inax (19865100) of the folriwl% caoitimo                                                                                a
Oil and ganolin                                         0.35
Operatlm and mintenace of vehicl                        0.30
Field trip allueces                                     0.25
Office offpies (wU water, electricity, comidation) 0.10
TWOD
1Th nwentE  will be adjusted anwally.  If, for exmple, the 1906 lux woad be 108, the mrgin for the LF lwltxlsd an the price for
rinderpeat ad CEW  vaccines wuld be 1.08 x LI 20  [ t1122.
iAsaa     a cost price of UN 10/dose.



ANNEX 7
74                             Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(millions of UN in constant 1985 prices, unless otherwise indicated)
A. ECONOMIC COSTS
1         2         3          4         5         6 and
following years
Management                22.1      11.5       11.5      11.5      13.2       -
Animal Health             26.5      36.9      54.6       41.4      28.5       20.0
Animal Production         32.4      26.8      23.0       23.0      25.1        8.0
Training                  19.1      35.6       17.7      12.4       5.9       4.0
Input Distribution
drugs and feed          30.8      44.8      58.8       72.8      86.8      90.0
other expenses          14.6      11.6      11.4        3.7       3.7       3.7
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS    145.5      167.2     177.0      164.8     163.2      125.7
The above table is based on the hypothesis that foreign financing will be disbursed
during the 5 year period covered by the cost tables.  If it is assumed that
disbursements will take longer (for instance as given in the profile of Annex 4-3),
the results of the analysis will not change as in that case it will also have to be
assumed that benefits would accrue at a proportionately slower rate.
B. BENEFITS
One tropical livestock unit (TLU) equals one head of cattle of 300 kg. In an average
herd this equals about:      1 camel
0.73 head of cattle
0.12 sheep or goat
The following parameters have been used:
1.  dressing percentage (incl. offalls)                 55%
2.  meat price (carcass)                           UM 135/kg
3.  duration of project benefits of alternatively 10 and 20 years
4.  rate of realization of incremental production as follows:
25 percent in PY 1, 50 percent in PY 2, 75 percent in PY 3 and 100
percent in PY 4 and thereafter.
Under these assumptions the gross benefit streams are as follows:
Incremental               1         2         3          4         5     6 and
Prod. (TLUs/year)                                                      following years
7000                     39.0      78.1      117.1      156.1     156.1     156.1
8000                    44.6       89.2     .:33.8      178.4     178.4     178.4
9000                    50.2      100.4      150.5      200.7     200.7     200.7
10000                     55.8     111.5      167.3      223.0     223.0     223.0



75 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2-
C. ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN (ERR)
The above figures give rise to the following ERRs, which would be realized at the
given level of incremental troduction.
Incremental                                    ERR (in Z/year)
Prod. (TLTJs/year)                             project duration
10 years                            20 years
7000                               - 9                                    5
8000                                  5                                  14
9000                                 17                                  23
10000                                 28                                  33
For example, the cost/benefit streams in case of an incremental production of 8000
TLUs/year and benefits over 20 years (giving a 14% ERR) would be as follows:
1         2          3         4         5          6-20
Benefits                  44.6       89.2      133.8      178.4     178.4      178.4
Economic costs           145.5      167.2      177.0      164.8     163.2      125.7
Net Benefits            -100.9     -78.0       -43.2       13.6      15.2       52.7



:'.l'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/'
-. -fav- a    J      J -ALGE RIA  LIBYA *                                         ATAR -r-----  -
:,.~ ~~ ~I    MAL'5X   IGRj                       C H IR I       /    |    /ui  
GWNEA      Paso   .  J  NIGERIA                                R Z/
* j4.   --'.-           tZj                   '-- £    >                    '-        -     /-'I
10K~~~.          . J .   .                             p.
TRARZA                            7    \
-.      0      ~~~~Quad Nogo                             7                                  r
,.-LAN '-,  /. T                                                                                        O
gg / g~~~ ' i C;UItBRA K NA
- : C'SEAN                                            Got Aa~o L                        ------           -n'°
,    - -- X -o                                                                               -<_  SE7M-e                 I
ROSSO                  ,'       -Ni
I';dS                                                      AA S S
VST. LOLIS                                                jAbut
-*                    / gX O                                                                   O r(  'r
/                                                                           I ~~~~~~~    EG A LSEUBAI
.   ......
15.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
.4 ..
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD  183038
MAURITANIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEUXItME PROJET D' ELVAGE
VETERINARY INSTALLATIONS:
tAR                                                                iNF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRASTRUCTURES VSTERINAIRES'
-tAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C HEABOUARTERtS
DRWECT1ON GEMM41.
* REGIONAL OFFSEfi
UREAU RL,G
VETENARY STATIONS
POSTE bI1EIRfE
/                                                                                          CRLSHES FOR VACCINATICIN
ARC DE VACCWAT1KOIV
/                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSEO VETERINARY STATINS
P05 POSTETERB4RE PlPS
FLIRVESTOCX DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ISOUTH.EASTI
ORQJET D- ELEVAGE SLI - EST       -
IEXPERIAENTAL PROJECT AREA
-'ZONE EXPERIMEArAL rNU PROET
PAVED ROAD
ROUTE GOUDIORNEE
1 A G A N T                                                               -  -TE rjQuLwvNRE EENcUV'OU          N
LATERITE I EARTM ROADS
ROUTE EN TERRE/ LA TERFrE
TRAILS
I~~~~~PS
/ -z ICDJA    --   --  T,ch,gi  -  IS RTS 11949- 1974 in mn
T-     h.                                                                        ISOHYETES ( W9 - 19;d) en mm
-                                                             'I~~ ~ s  f           .       ISOIWETS 11968 -1974) in mm
-SON'VETES (E96 - t91'4) an mm
-  - REGIONAL AND OEPARTMENTAL BOUNDARIES
ROAI1fRE fOEGIO1JAL OU  AEPR EETALE
INTERNATIONAL SOUNOARIES
/ \   j                         FRON1TlRE UITEDWA7OVAnoE
-_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  --_--      - -                                                   -  -
t   -L             .                                                                 -_,  __                : , - --Q.:,u.atato
10          0H 
- -Dt  ~~~~~~9xx      --    _                \s ~~~~~~~H  O  D H    0   R I E-N T'A-L':-'.,s
HID    OCCIDENTAt     
_tCj__ H O D-iitwo C C 1 5 = N T A I -----7~~~~---------------,;-- /
ATROUSS                               r
- A    L   I
NEW
Amo                  ..
A     L                                  0    75~O ~5               I 0   125   15
KI'LOMTERS
11_me ~~b d    h 40B.        k,tr   NW * _d_  of
A49U0flS                                  -                  -"^ v b
JANUARIY 1986



