CREDIT NUMBER 1658 MAU
Second Amendment
Agreement Amending and
Restating
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Livestock Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 24, 1986
as Amended and Restated on                     7         1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1658 MAU
Second Amendment
AGREEMENT AMENDING AND RESTATING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      4 "f          , 1995, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the BorrowerCand INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend
the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, dated April 24, 1986 (the Development Credit
Agreement), as amended through an exchange of let -ars dated
December 1, 1987; January 10, 1988 and June 8, 1989; an" July 18,
1989; in the manner hereinafter set forth (Second Amendment);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby
amended relative to certain subcomponents and activities under the
Project description within the Project objectives as outlined and
approved by the Association and the Borrower under the original
Development Credit Agreement, and restated in its entirety so as to
read as set forth in the Annex hereto.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly
authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its
terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the


﻿-2-
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect as if this Amending Agreement had not been
executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By 0/ /
Authorized R presentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/                   V' A.      CWX?
Regional ic President
Africa


﻿Annex
Page 1 of 21
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1986, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has contracted a loan with the African
Development Fund (AfDF) and the OPEC Fund for International
Development (OPEC Fund) (the AfDF Loan and the OPEC Fund Loan) for
an amount equivalent to US$6.3 million and US$2 million,
respectively; and a grant with the Kingdom of Norway (Norway) for an
amount of NKr 14 million (the Norwegian Grant) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
agreements entered into in this regard between the Borrower, on the
one hand, and AfDF, OPEC Fund and Norway, respectively, on the other
(the AfDF Loan Agreement, the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement and the
Norwegian Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the deletion of the last sentence of Section 3.02 (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms and acronyms have the following
meanings:


﻿Annex
Page 2 of 21
(a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the aggregate of the
project preparation advances granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters, dated December 2, 1986
and February 12, 1982; August 4, 1984 and August 16, 1984; and
May 8, 1985 and June 4, 1985; between the Borrower and the
Association;
(c)   "MDRE" means the "Minist6re du D&veloppement Rural et de
1'Environnement", the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
of the Borrower;
(d)   "DRAP" means Direction des Ressources Agro-Pastorales of
the Borrower's Minist6re du Developpement Rural et de 1'Environ-
nement;
(e)   "UM" (Ouguiyas Mauritaniens) means the currency of the
Borrower;
(f)   "PCA" means regional Pastoral Cooperative Association as
established under the Project; and
(g)   "Agricultural Services Project" means the Project
implemented pursuant to the April 26, 1994 Development Credit
Agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in


﻿Annex
Page 3 of 21
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in convertible ouguiyas a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at a rate to be set by the Association as of
June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
not withdrawn from time to time.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such


﻿Annex
Page 4 of 21
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing May 15, 1996, and ending November 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15,
2005, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national products per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the


﻿Annex
Page 5 of 21
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MDRE
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and ecological practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Two and a half (2-1/2) years after the Effective
Date, the Borrower shall undertake an in-depth review of the Project
and shall submit to the Association within four (4) months a report
thereon for its review and comments. Without limitation to the
generality of the foregoing, said report shall contain a detailed
examination of: (a) the viability of all parts of the Project; (b)
the progress of establishment of PCAs and the estimated rate of
their future establishment; and (c) the results of the systems
studies and their implications for the Project design. Said report
shall establish an assessment of the Project's performance in
accordance with key performance criteria agreed upon with the
Association.
Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower undertakes that, at the time of their establishment, each
PCA will be granted legally enforceable grazing, stock-water and
fuel-wood exploitative rights, including the right to negotiate
access to its respective area.


﻿Annex
Page 6 of 21
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes that the slaughterhouse
constructed under Part B of the Project will be operated on a
commercial basis and will charge fees allowing full cost recovery
including amortization.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish a
detailed vehicle inventory and vehicle use control, covering all
vehicles acquired with the proceeds of the Credti, and shall enforce
such control thereafter.
Section 3.07. The Borrower undertakes that, except for
technical requirements and quality control, there will be no
restrictions on private trade in veterinary drugs and vaccines or
animal feeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower undertakes not to distribute drugs,
vaccines and feed, including those received as foreign assistance,
in areas serviced by PCAs.
Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or


﻿Annex
Page 7 of 21
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at    least one year    after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts or customs
certificates, and other documents, as appro-
priate) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the Association's    representatives  to
examine such records; and


﻿Annex
Page 8 of 21
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts   are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effect*ve Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Range Management Section and the Stock-water Section
have been established in the Agricultural and Pastoral Development
Division in MDRE;
(b)   the AfDF Loan Agreement and the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement
have been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to
their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals thereunder, except for the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c)   DRAP's Construction Engineer and the Project Coordinator
and Financial Controller have been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre du Plan of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿Annex
Page 9 of 21
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re du Plan
B.P. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address:               Telex:
MPDI                      540 MTN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                [Telex:
INDEVAS                   440098 (ITT)
Washington., D.C.          248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿Annex
Page 10 of 21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By Is/ Messoud Ould Boulkheir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿Annex
Page 11 of 21
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               1,800,000        100%
for Part A
(2) Consultants'              2,200,000        100%
Services and
Studies for
Part A
(3) Incremental                                75%
Operating
Costs for:
(a) Part A                1,690,000
(b) Per Memoriam            510,000        0%
(4) Refund of Project           400,000       Amount due pur-
Preparation                                suant to Section
Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated                 400,000
(6) Goods and equipment         200,000        100%
7,200,000


﻿Annex
Page 12 of 21
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental
operating costs" means expenditures in respect of items such as
personnel salaries and travel allowances, audit fees, training
programs, fuel and vehicle equipment maintenance cost, and office
rent and supplies, under Category (3) (a) of the table set forth in
paragraph (1) of this Schedule.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿Annex
Page 13 of 21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) promote livestock
husbandry; (ii) reduce degradation and improve management of
grazing areas; (iii) encourage establishment of autonomous PCAs; and
(iv) provide training and other services to members of PCAs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Establishment of Pastoral Cooperative Associations
1.    Establishment of PCAs formed by pastoralists within homogenous
areas and provision of technical support, equipment, supplies and
consultants services thereto;
2.    promotion of a regulatory framework allowing PCAs to test
land- and water-use agreements developed by themselves;
3.    implementation of a rural water supply program;
4.    implementation of pilot operations carried out by PCAs,
comprising, inter alia: (i) mini-projects; (ii) establishment of
range land management perimeters; (iii) hay harvesting operations;
and (iv) provision of livestock supplies; and
5.    provision of extension and training services to PCAs in close
coordination with the Agricultural Services Project.
Part B:     Slaughterhouse
Design, construction and operation of a new slaughterhouse in
Nouakchott.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.


﻿Annex
Page 14 of 21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necassary approvals and clearances, and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part
E.1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if
the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.


﻿Annex
Page 15 of 21
Part B.     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mauritania may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement oi works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than
$50,000 up to an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 may
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
invited from a list of suppliers acceptable to the Association and
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8. 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.    Goods and works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract, required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to


﻿Annex
Page 16 of 21
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Th  provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not ,pply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ experts and consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Experts and consultants to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of


﻿Annex
Page 17 of 21
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent
each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $5,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $5,000 equivalent or above.


﻿Annex
Page 18 of 21
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
convertible ouguiyas equivalent to US$200,000 to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that, unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$50,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.    (a)   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
(b)   Each payment (including a payment under a letter of
credit) for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less
than the equivalent of $20,000 shall be made exclusively out of the
Special Account. The Association may, from time to time, by notice
to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the
preceding sentence.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the


﻿Annex
Page 19 of 21
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts determined by the Association to be required to pay for
eligible expenditures during the four months following the date of
each such request which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Association shall have determined to be so
required.
(c)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish
the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of
payments made out of the- Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective Categories (1) through (3), and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Association when any of the following situations first
arises:
(i)   the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the


﻿Annex
Page 20 of 21
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
(ii)   the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified
in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any
of the audit reports required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts
for the Special Account;
(iii)   at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend, in
whole or in part, the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; and
(iv)   the total unwithdrawn    amount of   the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect of the Project, shall be the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories
(1) through (3) for the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditures or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the


﻿Annex
Page 21 of 21
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit
Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the orizinal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


