AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1658 MAU
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
of the Kingdom of Norway
in Conjunction with the Second Livestock Project
in the
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Dated                           , 1991


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the orisinal in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


﻿AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                         , 1991, between the
Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway (Norway)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) to
provide for the administration by the Association of certain funds
to be made available by Norway to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
(hereinafter referred to as Mauritania).
WHEREAS (A) the Agreement, dated October 2, 1986, among
Norway, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
and the Association provides the framework for cooperation in the
financing of development projects by the parties thereto;
(B)   Norway wishes to make available to Mauritania a grant
in the amount of fourteen million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 14,000,000)
(the Grant) to assist Mauritania in financing part of the goods and
services required to carry out the project (the Project) which is
described in the Preamble to the Agreement between Mauritania and
the Association (the Norwegian Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to administer the Grant upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall enter into such agreement or agreements with
Mauritania, as it may deem appropriate for the purpose of assisting
in the financing of the Project. Such agreements with Mauritania
shall, inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the Grant may be
withdrawn by Mauritania to finance the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and that the amounts to be
withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other
charges. A copy of each such agreement shall be furnished by the
Association to Norway.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall have the sole responsibility for the supervision of
the Project.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any pro-
visions of any agreement entered into between Mauritania and the
Association for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled


﻿-2-
solely by the Association, and the Association specifically reserves
the right, at its discretion and without notice to Norway, to
exercise, refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such
agreement or to modify any provision thereof, provided, however,
that before suspending the right of Mauritania to make withdrawals
of funds under such agreement, the Association shall inform Norway
and afford Norway a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the
Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exercises
with respect to the administration and management of its own affairs
and shall have no further responsibility to Norway in respect
thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway
shall, subject to parliamentary appropriations, deposit an amount
of fourteen million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 14,000,000) into a general
account with Norges Bank in the name of the Association (the "Trust
Account").
(b)   The said amount shall be deposited in three tranches,
each such tranche to be deposited as follows:
(i)   four millionNorwegianKroner (NOK 4,000,000) upon
effectiveness of this Agreement;
(ii)   five million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 5,000,000)
before December 31, 1991; and
(iii)   five million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 5,000,000)
before December 31, 1993.
(c)   It is understood that the amount of each such tranche
is based on the planned implementation schedule for the Project and
may, after consultation between Norway and the Association, be
adjusted to reflect actual progress made in Project implementation.
(d)   The funds in    the Trust Account   shall be   freely
exchangeable by the Association with other currencies as may
facilitate their administration.


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust
Account such amounts as from time to time shall be needed to meet
the reasonable costs of goods and services financed or to be
financed pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement. Such
disbursement shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal
applications for eligible expenditures submitted by Mauritania to
the Association in accordance with the Association's normal
procedures for withdrawal of proceeds of credits made by the
Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in the defrayment of the
costs of administration and other expenses incurred by the
Association under this Agreement, the Association may invest and
reinvest the funds in the Trust Account pe,:nding their disbursement
to Mauritania, and may retain for its own account the income from
any such investment or reinvestment.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall: (i) maintain separate
records and accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account
disbursed by the Association pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement; and (ii) promptly after the end of each fiscal year,
furnish to Norway a statement of account on such records and
accounts.
(b)   Promptly after all funds made available under this
Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust Account or upon
termination of this Agreement, whichever is the earlier, the
Association shall cause such accounts and records to be audited and
certified by the Association's external auditors and shall furnish
the report of such audit by said auditors to Norway.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Norway and the Association shall consult from
time to time at each other's request on all matters arising out of
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep Norway informed of
the progress made in the implementation of the Project. To such
purpose, the Association shall furnish to Norway all relevant
progress performance and assessment reports relating to the Project.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above written and, subject to the provisions of this
Article, shall continue in effect until all funds made available
trader this Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust Account to
Mauritania.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or
appropriately be carried out, the Agreement may be terminated at
the initiative of such party by a ninety (90) days notice in
writing.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the
parties agree on another course of action, any agreement or portion
thereof entered into by the Association, as Administrator on behalf
of Norway, shall be transferred to Norway and any funds or other
property of Norway held hereunder by the Association shall be
returned to Norway, and the Association's administration shall be
considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after all funds made available under
this Agreement have been disbursed from the Trust Account or upon
termination of this Agreement, whichever is the earlier, the
Association shall furnish to Norway a final report and a financial
statement on the Trust Account, together with an opinion of the
Association's external auditors on such statement.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or
telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given
or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the


﻿-5-
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
For Norway:
The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs
P.O. Box 8114, Oslo Dep.
0032 Oslo 1
Norway
Cable address:                    Telex:
NORAD-N                       76548 NORAD-N
Oslo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                         197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto,
have signed this Agreement.
ROYAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By / 'y                      /14  4JL
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


