Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C#?. /i t;?-Y'i?
Report No. 6407-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 4, 198?
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Agriculture I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performw've of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoi.'tion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00          -    Yemeni Rials (YRle) 9.00
YRl 1.00          =    US$ 0.111
YRls 1.0 million  -    US$ 111,111
(As of February 1987)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)      =  0.039 inches
1 meter                = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)    =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =  10,000 square meters  (2.47 acres)
1 metric ton (ton)     =  2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)            =  0.264 gallons
I 1/8                  =  One liter per second
I- m3/S                   One cubic meter per second
1 Mm3                  =  One million cubic meters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARA      =     Agricultural Research Authority
CACB           Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CI2CD    =     Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative
Development
CPO      =     Central Planning Organization
ERR      =     Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP   =     Food and Agritulture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
FAO/IC         Food and Agriculture Organization/Investment
Center
ICB      =     International Competitive Bidding
IDA      =     International Development Association
IFAD     =     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB      =     Local Competitive Bidding
LCCD           Local Councils for Cooperative Development
MAF      =     Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
PCR      =     Project Completion Report
PDRY     =     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SDC      =     Swiss Development Cooperation
SFY      =     Second Five Year Plan
SMS      =     Subject Matter Specialist
SRADP    =     Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
SURDP    =     Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU    =     Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA      =     Tihama Development Authority
TFYP     =     Third Five Year Plan
YAR      =     Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
YENEN  B  REaUBLIC
SOUTE   REGION   AGRIUTR   DEVEPNT PROJECT
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
Tabl of Contents
Pag No.
CRDfTf NMPROECTSUMMARY. . . . . .  . . . .                       i-i.
I.    CKGROUND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               1
A. ProjectBackg rorud...                                            1
B.  TheAgriculturalSector  ..2
I.  THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVEPMNTM POTENTUL ....                          9
III.  JTHE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .  . . .  . .  . .         14
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope  . . . . . . .         14
B.  Detailed Project Features  . . . . ..  . . . . . .  . .        15
C. Cost Estimate   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         23
D.  Finnmcing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         25
E.  Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         26
F.  Disbursement . . . . . . . . .                                 27
G.  Accounts and Audits  ..*.....a......                           29
H.  Environantal Impact .      . . . . . .....                     29
I.  Riparian Issues   .. . . . . . . .     .                       30
iv.  ORGANIZTIONANDMANAGEMENT                  .............             30
*A.  Institutional Arrangements . .. . . . . . . .. . . ..          30
B.  Project I mplementation ...............                        31
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . ... ....... .                 33
D.  Progress Reporting.. .9.....  ..            *                  33
e.  Iands for Project Facilities .            . . . . .            34
The project was appraised by IDA in April/May, 1986.  This report is based on
the findings of the appraisal mission to Yemen Arab Republic consisting of
Messrs. Hikmat G. Nasr, Agriculturist and Mission Leader; Saeed Rana, Senior
Irrigation Engineer; Mathewos Woldu, Economist (EWPAl); and Ms. Helen Lackner,
Wlmen Development Specialist (Consultant) and Mr. Douglas Masterton,
Agricultural and Livestock Production Specialist (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authodzation.



C tPW  No.
V. PROJECT  ENEFI.JSTCATONAD                     ... .       ....   34
A. Production . . . . . . . . . ... . . . .   . . .   . .        34
B. Financial Results  .................. .                       37
C. Taxes and Cost Recovery  .*0****......  *...                  38
D.  Benefit-. and Beneficiaries . 0 .  ...     . . , . . .       39
E. Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . ..........                 40
F. Project Risks  . . . . * *    . . . . ..     . ........       41
VI.  AGMEN SRACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . .                         42
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1    Landholding Pattern  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
3.1    Project Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24
3.2    Project Financing   Plan...............                    25
3.3    Procurement Plan     ..................                    27
3.4    Disbursement . . . . .    . . .   . . . . . . . . . .      28
3.5    Disbursement Schedule  ......                              29
5.1    Present and Future Crop Yields . . . . . . . . . & . .     35
5.2    Future Crop Production . . . . . a *. . . . & . . a .      36
5.3    Farm Incomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * .     38
5.4    Incremental Taxes                     .                    38
ANNEX 1:
Supporting Tables
1.    Agricultural Sector Development - Key Indicators  . . . .     44
2.    Estimated Agricultural Production in YAR (1979-1985). . .     45
3.    Crop Areas and Cropping Pattern . . . . . . . . . . . . .     46
4.    Incremental Project National Staff  . . . . . . . . . . .     47
5.    Vehicles, Heavy Equipment and Machinery . . . . a . . . .     48
6.    Fertilizer - Estimates of Annual Supply/Potential Use
in Project Area . . . . .. .  . . . . . . . . . . . .      49
7.    Response to Fertilizer  . . .................                 50
8.    Features of Existing Small Dams . . . . . . . . . . . . .     51
9.    Technical Assistance and Foreign Training . . . . . . . .     52
l0.(a) Project Costs - Summary Accounts by Project Component . .     53
l0.(b) Project Costs - Summary Accounts by Year  . . . . . . . .     54
l0.(c) Project Costs - Breakdown of Summary Accounts . . . . . .     55
l0.(d) Project Recurrent Costs . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   56
11.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit  . . . .     57
12.    Financial and Economic Prices   . . . . . . . . . . . . .     58
13.    Farmers' Contacts     ...................                     59
14.    Incremental Value of Taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .      60
15.    Cost and Rent Recovery (Irrigation Rehabilitation Only) .     61
16.    Irrigation Development - Economic Cost & Benefit Streams.     62



Pon. No.
AM= l (Continued)
17.    Rehabilitation of Small Irrigation Schemes - Economic Cost
lenfit Streams   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    63
AM=2:  Irrigation Scheus and Dams-Term  of Reference . .... a    64
ARM 3: Descriptionof Trainin Course ...... . . *.. . .. .. o * ..    67
AWEX4:  Technical Parameters and Assumptions for Economic
Analyses  . . . . ....... ........... . . . . ... ....     68
AME  5: Selected Documnts and Data Ava^ible In the
Projectfile   . . . .  ..  . 0000000.                0      69
CgmU
It Crop Calendar  00........ 0. 0       .*.*.0.0.0.0.0.    . .  .   .  70
2: OveralllAplemetationSchedule  . ... ........  .                71
3: World Bank-30684:l  Organization of Implemeting Agencies.      72
4: World Back-30684:2 Orgaisation of Extension Service  ..        73
PAPS
lIED 19800: - Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project -
Project Area
IUD 19801: - Southern Regional Agricultural Delopmnt Project -
Project Features



YEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTER  REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DELOflET PRO~JECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CED A  POJnCT SUMMARY
ho_:om.         CGoverment of Yemen Arab Republic.
Amount:         SDRI  9.8 million (US$12.3 million equivalent).
Ters: .Standard IDA.
Beneficiaries:  Inhabitants of the 8outuern Region.
Implementina
_   .gtency:   Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit.
Prolect
Obiectivesl     The project would increase agricultural productivity
Description:    and incomes of farmers in the Southern Region including the
low rainfall areas (400-500 mm), by providing improved
agricultural services including operation and maintenance of
agriculture infrastructure, improved utilization of land and
water resources, special assistance to women farmers; and
improved services for the rural women to raise the
health/nutrition standards of the rural families. The project
would consist of construction of facilities, and provision for
vehicles and equipment to establish and strengthen regional
support services in agricultural extension, tural development
for women, veterinary and Operation and Maintenance;
development of a tree nursery; supply of fertilizer;
construction of CACB subbranches; establishment of
demonstration farms and training of farmers in irrigation and
agricultural practices; rehabilitation of irrigation sebemes
(350 ha); provision for a water resources study on Wadi Bana;
and technical assistance and training.
Benefits and
Risks:          The project would benefit about 120,000 farm units comprising
about 670,000 people in the Southern Region through the
development of agriculture and improvement in their standard
of living through better health and nutrition practices.
Also, provision for construction of irrigation schemes would
increase water availability and efficiency of water use and
thus the area under irrigation. The main risks include
difficulty in providing timely local funding and possible
delays in appointment of national and expatriate staff. The
Government has undertaken to take appropriate actions to
overcome these problems.



- ii -
project Cost: 4
Local       Foras«         Total
-(U  million)
A. Regional Services
Extension                               3.18          5.68          W.86
Rural Development for Women             1.17          1.66          2.63
Veterinary                              0.35          0.30          0.65
Operation and Maintenauce               2.33          2.95          5.26
Sub-Total Regional Services           7.03         10.59         17.62
B.  Nursery Development                       0.22          0.50          0.72
C.  Fertilixer                                0.07          1.48          1.55
D.  CACB                                      0.15          0.18          0.33
S.  Irrigation Development                    1.01          2.07          3.08
Total Baseline Cost                       8.48         14.82         23.30
Physical Contingencies                    0.58          1.10          1.68
Price Contingenciss                       2.18          1.35          3.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     11.24         17.27         28.51
Finaina Plan:
IDA                                      2.6            9.7          12.3
SDC                                       1.5           4.3           5.8
IFAD                                     0.5            2.0           2.5
Goverl mnat                               6.6           1.3           7.9
TOTAL                                 11.2           17.3          28.5
Estimated Cgmpletion Date: December 31, 1993
Estimated Disburseoents:                       IDA Fiscal Year
FY87  MS  FY9  FY90  PY91  FY92  F
-=(US* Million)
Annual                      0.2   0.5   1.4   3.7  3.6    1.9   0.8    0.2
Cumulative                  0.2   0.7   2.1   5.8  9.4  11.3  12.1   12.3
Economic Rate of etur:  162
L   Exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
Differences due to roundin.



YD ARA REPUBLIC
SOHN REGIO            AGRIMTURAL DE   MPM  PROJECT
STUFF APPRISA  REO
L BACKGROUND
A. Pot Ba Id
1.01     The Southern Region, which covers the main parts of the southern
highlands of the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), represents the major part of the
country's potential for rainfed agricultural development. Also, several
perennial or seasonal wadis ' rise in the region, of which Wadi Bana is the
most important (Map, IBRD 19800). The Government of YAR launched a program of
exploitation of this potential some years ago with assistance from various
financing agencies and as part of that program, two IDA-assisted projects,
covering about 402 of the cultivated areas, have already been undertaken in
the region. Southern Uplands Rural Development Project I [SURDP I
(Cr. 545-YAR)], which started in 1976, has since been completed; and SURDP $$
(Cr. 1067-YAR), which started in 1981, is nearing completion. Both projects
bave contributed to higher yields and production in the area, particularly
through their extension components.
1.02     In continuing its development drive in the region, the Government
amarked on formulating a project for development of the remaining arable
areas, primarily rainfed, with some development in irrigation through
rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes.  IDA reviewed these proposals and
aephasized the need for the establishment of strong and effective agricultural
extension and other support services for the entire Southern Region.  In
addition, IDA and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
reviewed the status of rural development for women's activities and proposed
strengthening such activities so as to increase the effectiveness of the rural
women in agriculture and thereby also raise the standard of living of the
rural population.
1.03     The proposed project was prepared with assistance by the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Prog.zam in February/March 1986. At IFAD's request, the PAO
Iuvestment Center (FAO/IC) prepared a project for rural development for women
in November/December 1985; but the Government of YAR preferred to have it
incorporated as a component under the proposed Southern Regional Agricultural
Development Project.
i/ In Arabic language, wadi means a valley. The term is also used as a
synonym for stream or channel.



-2-
BThe ASet
1.04     General.  YAR has an estimated population of about 9.3" million
growing at a high annual rate of about 3.0%. About 7.4 million of the
population (801) live in rural areas and, of these, about 5.8 million are
engaged iu agriculture. About 1.2 million live in neighboring oil producing
countries. In 1985, the GNP per capita was estimated at US$520.za
1.05     Beginning in the early seventies, YAR has been transformed from a
subsistence economy, to a relatively open market economy. Aided mainly by
inflows from remittances, which peaked in 1977-1978 at about US$ 1.1 billion
and then declined to about US$0.8 billion per year (1985), the country's
economic performance has generally been satisfactory. The increase in income
from migration largely benefited the rural segment of the population. In
1980, the economy slowed down considerably as a result of Government efforts
to reduce its budget deficit, and of a large decline in official grants from
neighboring oil exporting countries and the levelling off of workers'
remittances. The recent discovery of oil and gas, with production estimated
to range between 100,000 and 175,000 barrels per day, is expected to improve
the country's growth prospects.
1.06     The total land area of YAR is estimated at 20 million ha, of which
approximately 3.5 million ha (18%) are cultivable, the rest being mostly
desert and steep mountain slopes. Of the cultivable land, only about 1.35
million ha are cultivated regularly, of which about 1.12 million ha are
rainfed (400 m and above annually) and about 0.23 million ha are irrigated.
The remaining 2.15 million ha are marginal lands in low rainfall areas (less
than 400 m) cultivated only once every 3-4 years depending on the amount of
precipitation. Most of the cultivated area is owner-occupied, about 10S-152
operating under share-cropping arrangements.
1.07    Agriculture in YAR is largely subsistence oriented, being heavily
dependent upon rainfall conditions (about 832 of the arable land is rainfed).
Farming is also practiced to a lesser extent under irrigation (pump and
spate). An integrated farming system of crop production and livestock raising
is common. Cereal production (mainly sorghum and millet) is still
predominant, particularly in low rainfall areas (400-500 mm). However,
farmers in high rainfall (500 mm and above) and irrigated areas are
increasingly producing for the market. About two-thirds of land holdings are
less than one hectare and considerably fragmentec, impeding efforts at
mechanization. In spite of the limited natural resources, however, the Yemeni
farmers have demonstrated considerab.e agricultural efficiency by applying
YAk's traditonal techniques in irrigation dating back to Marib Dam era of the
7th century zs.C.
in the EconomY
1.08    Agriculture is the largest sector in terms of production and
employment and contributes about 25% of GDP. Agricultural value added
LI 1986 Census.
L2 The World Bank Atlas Methodology. This figure is believed to be an
underestimate because it does not include the value added derived from gat
(a mild stimulant).
2044C



- 3 -
(excluding pat) in 1983 was estimated at YRls 3.7 billion (US$ 0.8 billion).
If estimated value added from aat in 1982 (YRls 4.0 billion or US$0.9 billion)
is added, the share of agriculture in GDP would rise to nearly 38X. During
1970-81 agricultural growth (without gat) averaged 3.7% per annum and in the
following years it dropped to an average of 12 per annum, largely because of:
(a) high labor cost caused by the migration of Yemeni workers abroad; (b) an
over-valued currency which discriminated against locally produced grains and
encouraged imports of cereals and flour at low prices; (c) inadequate
infrastructure and lack of modern inputs; and (d) three consecutive years of
drought (1981-83).
1.09     Domestic food production having been insufficient to meet the
growing demand caused by the increase in worker remittances and high
population growth, substantial importation has become necessary. Food and
live animal imports have been rising and amounted to about YRls 2 billion
(US$ 450 million) in 1982 and YRLs 2.2 billion (US$500 million) in 1983. On
the other hand, agricultural exports (mainly cotton) have remained
insignificant, dropping from YRls ;2 million in 1980 (US$ 16.0 million) to
YR1s 47 million in 1984 (US$10.4 million). There has also been a change in
the pattern of agricultural production, made up of a decline in the production
of traditional crops (sorghum and millet, cotton and coffee) occurring largely
in response to market forces, and an increase in production of high value
crops (vegetables, fruits, and qat) and chicken partly due to an import ban
(Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2).
1.10     Livestock and Poultry.  Total livestock in YAR is estimated at 1.0
million cattle, 4.0 million sheep and goats, and 100,000 camels. Animal
production remains traditional where little or no selection of sires is made
and the mating season is not controlled. Livestock are mainly attended to by
women whom the existing extension services have hardly reached. Animal
production is also largely handicapped by inadequate veterinary services and
mager feed supplies. As a result, livestock performance is far below their
potential. Poultry production has demonstrated its potential for further
expansion. In 1984, there were about 240 broiler farms (combined annual
output of about 30 million birds) and two commercial size layer farms. Most
of the poultry development has been close to urban centers of the country.
SuDort Servics
1.11     The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) is responsible for
the overall development of agriculture in the country and functions mainly
through its Governorate offices and area and regioual development projects.
Autonomous corporations, like the General Corporation for the Development of
Fisheries Resources, and seminautonomous organizations, such as the Tihama
Development Authority (TDA), the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
(CACB), the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) and the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Unit (SURDU), also fall within the jurisdiction of MAF.
Their tasks are mainly to provide agricultural support services (extension,
research, veterinary, credit, etc.) and to carry out irrigation development
projects. In addition to budgetary constraints, MAF has been suffering from
shortage of well-qualified staff.
1.12     Extension.  There is no national extension service in YAR; the
extenioan activities at present are limited to those under individual area and
2044C



-4-
regional projects managed by SURDU, TDA, and the extension sections under the
Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1453-YAR) and Wadi
Al-Jawf Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1584-YAR), as well as the
limited activities in the remaining Governorates which are under the direct
supervision of MAF. The extension programs under SURDU and TDA have carried
improved technology to a large number of farmers, resulting in higher yields
and production of the major crops (sorghum, millet, maize, fruits (citrus,
banana) and vegetables]. However, in the Central Highlands and Wadi At. Jawf,
extension activities are just starting, and in other parts of the country they
are still weak owing to lack of skilled personnel, low remuneration and
inadequate funding.
1.13      Role of Women in Agriculture.  The role of women in agriculture is
prominent particularly in animal husbandry, and labor intensive crop
activities such as weeding, fertilizer application, harvesting, threshing and
storage. Also, their overall agricultural responsibilities have been
increasing as a result of male migration to neighboring countries. The
present extension services have been mainly focusing on male fax-mers, since
the majority of staff are male, and due to cultural constraints, they are
unable to reach women farmers. The services would need to be re-oriented to
allow for employing and training female extension agents.
1.14      The Government recognizes the key role of extension service and the
need to serve women, and is taking steps to strengthen these services,
including staffing and construction of facilities. The main objectives of
these efforts are to: (a) establish and strengthen permanent institutions to
provide extension service; (b) establish women-oriented extension activities;
and (c) promote coordination between extension and research. These objectives
could be achieved more effectively by establishing a national extension
service which, within the framework of the country's agricultural strategy,
can plan, coordinate and monitor and evaluate extension activities across all
Governorates. However, as MAW is not yet institutionally strong enough for
this additional responsibility, integration of existing project-based services
into regional ones along lines of the efforts under the Tihama V Project
(Cr. 1667-YAR) is proposed as an intermcdLaie step towards the evolution of a
nationally integrated service.
1.15      Research. Agricultural Research at the national level began in 1973
and is presently organized under the IDA-assisted Agricultural Research and
Development Project (Cr. 1259-YAR). ARA was established in 1983 to conduct
research and coordinate applied research being undertaken under individual
projects in different parts of the country. ARA has made notable progress in:
(a) developing improved varieties and technical production packages for the
main cereal crops and vegetables grown under rainfed (400 mm and above) and
irrigated conditions; (b) pest control measures to deal with banana fruit
spotting, powdery mildew, termites, blights; and (c) basing recommendations on
economic evaluation. Such packages have been the basis of technology
diffusion to farmers by the extension service, and contacts between tLe
extension and research staff, though ad hoc and infreque_t, have been steadily
increasing, particularly under SURDU and TDA.
1.16.     Education and Training. Agricultural secona~ary schools for
in-country training suffer from inadequate field facilities, under-funding and
2044C



inadequate curricula, and consequently, cannot cope with the projected demand
for qualified staff in YAR. At the higher level, agricultural and engineering
faculties have been established at the University of Sana'a, and the first
group of graccates will be available in 1989. The Government still relies
heavily on expatriate staff, not only for implementing projects, but also for
managing various support services. Replacement of such staff by local
counterparts has been slower than anticipated. Overseas training of Yemeni
professionals, though beneficial for the country at large, has not helped the
public sector sufficiently due to: (a) nonenforcement of the obligation of
trainees to work for Government upon their return; and (b) lower remuneration
levels compared to the private sector. The lack of skilled manpower,
therefore, continues to be a major constraint. It is necessary to evaluate
the medium- and long-term training needs at the regional and national levels
and to plan to meet them through project-based as well as free standing
training programs. This project incorporates this approach for the Southern
Region (paras. 3.33 and 3.34).
1.17      Input Supply.  Agricultural inputs and equipment are supplied
largely by the private sector. The CACB has also been a major supplier of
inputs (mostly urea) for cash, or on credit. In the past few years, however,
it has confined its activities to provision of credit leaving to the private
sector the major role in input distribution.
1.18      Importation and pricing of farm inputs were uncontrolled till 1984
when the Government began to ration foreign exchange allocations for imports.
Consequently, the supply of urea is inadequate and there 4s virtually no
potassic and phosphatic fertilizer in the country. About 25,000 tons of urea
(of which about 20,000 tons is received annually under foreign grants and sold
by NAF to local traders at prevailing market prices) and less than 1*000 tons
of compound fertilizer are imported annually, in comparison to an estimated
farmers' demand of 40,000 and 3,000 tons, respectivel.y. The shortages and
consequently rising prices have largely resulted from the foreign exchange
constraints, and because deliveries obtained under foreign grants are not
adequate and timely. While competition between traders is adequate and entry
into the market is relatively free, there is need to increase foreign exchange
allocations for fertilizer imports and to provide advance information to the
private sector on timing and quantities of fertilizer expected under foreign
grants. This approach would be promoted under the project (para. 3.22).
1.19      Agriculture Credit.  Credit to farmers has been forthcoming from
CACB and noninstitutional sources, such as merchants, affluent farmers and
money lenders. CACB is presently being assisted under the Agricultural Credit
Project (IDA Cr. 1308-YAR). It operates through ll branches and 8 subbranches
located throughout the country. Its annual lending increased from YRls 50
million in 1979/80 to YRls 167 million in 1985. CACB charges interest at 9%
on short-term loans and 10S on medium-term loans which since 1985 have become
below the local inflation rates. The loan recovery rate, which declined from
80-90% of amounts due in the late 70s to 50-60S in 1981-83 mainly due to the
drought conditions, has however, improved to about 701 in 1984-85.
1.20      Marketing.  Farming in Yemen is essentially subsistence oriented and
only a small proportion of surplus output (mainly cereals) reaches the
market. In recent years, however, an increasing number of farmers in high
2044C



-6-
rainfall or irrigated areas have grown cash crops (fruits and vegetables, qat,
and sorghum as fodder) principally for the domestic market. The marketing
system involves a large number of producers selling directly to wholesalers,
small merchants or consumers. In wholesale marketing, intermediaries
(Wakeels) operate to negotiate the price between buyers and sellers. The
emrgence of larger retail outlets and supermarkets has diminished the
traditional role of intermediaries and modestly increased the quality of
produce supplied to the market.
1.21      In general, domestically produced agricultural commodities are
freely traded. However, the Government has recently taken some
interventionist actions, such as the banning of imports of fresh fruits,
vegetables and chickens. These measures were primarily aimed at conserving
foreign exchange and do not represent a departure from a policy of reliance on
the market forces. Although there are inefficiencies within the existing
marketing system (mainly inadequate storage, grading, and packing facilities),
it is fairly competitive. A study on the marketing of fruits and vegetables,
recently carried out under IDA Cr. 805-YAR, recommended that Government role
in marketing should be limited to the provision of basic infrastructure at
main markets of national importance and to the need for improved importation
procedures. The Government is expected to take appropriate action to
implement the recommendations of the study.
1.22      Major constraints to agricultural growth in YAR include: an over-
valued currency, weak agricultural support services, and poor water resources
management and lack of funding for operation and maintemnace. The overvalued
currency (40-50%) has encouraged imports of cereals and flour, thereby
depressing prices of domestically produced grains. Increased imports have led
to foreign exchange shortages which, in turn, have led to restricted imports
of agricultural inputs. These matters are being addressed in the discussions
between the Government and BankIIMF on the need for overall macro-economic
adjustments. The input shortages adversely affect particularly the production
of higher value added crops (fruits, vegetables and fodder) and their prices.
Institutional constraints include the dearth of managerial and skilled
manpower and lack of high quality supporting services extension, research,
credit and input supply) and absence of O0M. The MAF needs to be strengthened
through technical assistance, particularly in its functions of data
collection, planning, monitoring and implementing sector programs and
projects, and of coordinating donor agencies activities. The Government is
aware of these weaknesses and looks to external financial and technical
assistance to address them.
1.23      Available surface and groundwater is not managed satisfactorily,
resulting in high water losses due to conveyance and application resulting in
low irrigation efficiency. The potential for agricultural development in YAR
depends primarily on the efficient management of water resources and
irrigation development should be based on the assessment of available
potential through in-depth studies of water resources in all regions of YAR as
have been cutrently undertaken in IDA-assisted Tihama IV (Cr. 978-YAR),
Central Bighlands (Cr. 1453-YAR) and Wadi Al-Jawf (Cr. 1584-YAR) projects.
The preparation of a national water master plan is under consideration by the
Government.
2044C



-7-
1.24      The rise in labor costs caused by the emigration of rural workers
and rapid growth of remittances from abroad, relative to the low levels of
agricultural productivity, is also a constraint, particularly at times of peak
agricultural demand for labor. Cereal production on marginal rainfed areas
was the most affected. The slow-down in the economies of the oil exporting
countries is expected to ease their demand for expatriate labor, and may
thereby lead to a modest decline in real wages for YAR in the medium term.
Governmet'8s Sector Strategy
1.25      The Government strategy for development of the sector is currently
under review as the Third Five-Year Plan 1987-1991 (TFYP) is being prepared
with assistance under the IDA-executed UNDP-financed project (YEM/85/006).
The strategy in the Second Five-YWar Plan 1982-1986 (SFYP) was to achieve a
reasonable level of self-sufficiency in food production, based on: (i)
development of agricultural support services; (ii) mobilization of potential
water resources; and increasing present water use efficiency;
(iii) multi-component rural development; (iv) establishment of strategic
buffer stocks of staple crops; (v) completion of basic infrastructure;
(vi) adoption of a price policy that supptrts domestic production and
rationalizes consumption; and (vii) establishment of cooperatives.
1.26      Some of the objectives of the SFYP such as (a) the development of
support services, and (b) increasing the efficiency of water use, would still
be relevant under the TFYP. However, large scale multi-component rural
development projects will need reconsideration, in so far as they would be
expensive in terms of recurrent costs. Further, TFYP should also reflect the
continuation of the general policy of Government to depend on the private
sector to play an active role in the development of the economy and to let the
market forces determine the allocation of resources. This is important as the
Government has lately followed a policy of restricting or prohibiting the
importation of vegetables, chickens and fruits and rationing scarce foreign
exchange, making imports of essential agricultural inputs difficult. It is
expected that these measures will be transitory and do not represent a
departure from the Government policy of reliance on the private sector and an
open economy.
1.27      IDA has presented to the Government an Agricultural Strategy
Paper /- reviewing sector performance and policies. The strategy
recommended in the Paper emphasised the role of the Government in providing
support services for facilitating private sector activity in agriculture,
including among others: (a) the establishment of less expensive regional
extension services; (b) promotion of low cost, self-financing irrigation
improvement projects; (c) improvement in the agricultural marketing
infrastructure; (d) a water master plan to ensure full development of the
country's limited water resources; (e) the building up of necessary reserve
stocks by the Government through imports; and (f) the establishment of an O&M
service to preserve completed irrigation projects. The Government has
indicated that it will reflect these recommendations to the extent possible in
its TFYP.
/I Report No. 5574-YAR.
2044C



-8-
MDA's Rolie in the Sector
1.28     IDA's strategy in the agricultural sector has aimed at helping to
raise agricultural productivity in areas of known potential, increase farmers'
income and thereby improve their standard of living. This is being achieved
through its participation in development projects mainly emphasizing the
establishment and strengthening of institutional capabilities in research,
credit, extension and irrigation improvement. IDA projects account for a
large segment of total public sector investment in agriculture and have helped
attract a number of other agencies to cofinance agricultural development in
YAR.
1.29     IDA has to date assisted in financing 14 agricultural projects in
TAR, of which 6 (the Tihama I, II and IV, the SURDP I, the Grain Storage and
Processing, the Livestock Credit and Processing) have been completed. In
general, they have been successful in achieving their main objectives,
including the establishment and strengthening of institutions in credit,
extension and research, but they have also represented increased Government
expenditures in the sector by way of investment and recurrent costs.
1.30    Ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural projects include SURDP II and
Tihama III, which are near completion. Both projects are making satisfactory
progress, generally after experiencing some start-up difficulties particularly
due to financing, managerial and staffing problems. The ongoing Fisheries
project has made good progress on its infrastructure components but has been
proceeding slowly on support for artisanal fisheries. Three other
agricultural projects, the Research and Development, the Agricultural Credit,
and the Central Highlands Agricultural Development projects are at different
stages of implementation.  The Wadi Al Jawf project is in the start-up stage.
The Credit Agreement for Tihama V (Cr. 1667-YAR) signed on May 9, 1986 is
expected to become effective shortly.
1.31    Lessons Learned.  The Project Performance and Audit Reports for
Tihama I and SURDP I projects and the draft completion reports on the Tihama
II and rV projects are generally complimentary about their achievements,
particularly the implementation of the physical infrastructure and the
establishment of the extension services. However, the impact on yields has
been limited, largely because it takes several years to produce a real
increase in yield and production at the field level. These reports as well as
the report on the Grain Storage and Processing Project and the Livestock
Credit and Processing Project, which encountered serious implementation
problems highlighted the following principal difficulties: (a) delay in
mobilization of the agencies being newly established; (b) shortage of
technical and administrative staff; (c) escalation in project costs due to
delayed execution; (d) ineffectiveness of monitoring and evaluation programs;
(c) weak coordination between research and extension; and (f) absence of O&M
services. While progress is being made in these areas, the lessons learned
from completed and ongoing projects have been taken into account in
formulating the scope and design of subsequent projects, including the
proposed project.
2D^at



-9-
.L THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTEITIAL
f%WFeatume
2.01     Location and Topowtraphy.  The Southern Region encompasses the
provincial boundaries of Taix and Ibb Governorates, except the coastal areas
of Tais (Map, IBRD 19801) and comprises: (a) highlands with elevation of over
1,500 m above mean sea level (amsl); (b) midlands or montane plains with
elevation between 1,000 to 1,500 m amsl and (c) foothills of less than 1,000 m
amsl. The project area is crisscrossed by several perennial and intermittent
streams (wadis), of which, Bana, the main Wadi, drains through Peoples'
Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) into the Gulf of Aden and the others,
Rasyan, Rhawlan and Zabid, drain into the Red Sea through the Tihama Plain.
The upper reaches of these streams are characterized by deeply incised
valleys, narrow valley floors and steep hillsides, in most cases terraced for
rainfed agriculture.
2.02    Area.  The project extends over an area of about 195,000 ha of high
potential cultivated land in some 200,000 holdings. This includes the
traditionally farmed rainfed areas of Tais receiving 400-500 mm of annual
rainfall, the high rainfall (500 mm and above) and the irrigated areas
(Annex 1, Table 3).
2.03    Climate.  The climate in the Southern Region is mild and suitable for
year-round production of a wide range of crops. Rainfall and temperature are
strongly influenced by altitude. Mean monthly temperatures in Tais range from
about 200C in December to 271C in July. In the Ibb and Yarim highlands, the
absolute minimum temperature goes below zero during December-January,
prohibiting the cultivation in the winter season of frost-sensitive crops such
as potatoes and tomatoes.  Annual rainfall ranges from 700 to 1,000 mm in the
high elevation area of Ibb-Yarim, and to as little as 100 mm in the Tihama
plain and to the east. Rainfall extends from March through September with
peaks in May and August. Relative humidity varies from 40% to 90% and the
annual evapotranspiration ranges from 1,600 mm in the highlands to about
2,500 m in the midlands.
2.04    Soils.  There are three main soil types in the area:  (i) alluvial
silt loens on the wadi beds; (ii) colluvial silty clays on hill slopes; and
(iii) calcareous silts in the lower valleys. Most have adequate moisture
retention capacity, high pH values (about 7.5-8.0), low organic matter and
nitrogen content. Available phosphorus is also limited, but soils have high
levels of exchangeable potassium and magnesium. Fertility is maintained at
modest levels through application of manure and through use of chemical
fertilizer, mainly urea, which was introduced under SURDP I and II projects.
Additional phosphorus and potassic fertilizer are also required for certain
crops, but their use has been limited because of their nonavailability and
insufficient understanding by the farmers of their importance.
Wate Resoure
2.05    Surface Water.  The major catchment areas for runoff are those of
Wadis Bans and Zabid (Map, IBRD 19801). It is estimated that about 350 m of
annual rainfall in the project area and 550 mm for the Wadi Bana



- 10 -
catchment area generate about 650-900 million cubic meters (MMm3) and
120-180 Mm3 of surface runoff, respectively. The diversion of spates and
base flow, in conjunction with groundwater, provides irrigation for about
35,000 ha. Groundwater exists in: (a) shallow acquifers along the wadis which
either is pumped out for irrigatiorn or drains down to lower areas due to steep
terrain and (b) deep acquifers in fractured volcanics and sandstones. There
is insufficient data to make a correct assessment of the groundwater potential
for which hydrological investigations are proposed under the project.
Rowever, preliminary estimates indicate that the annual abstraction fromn and
rechar1e of the acquifers in the project area amount to about 120 Im3N and
300 Mm respectively. About 13,000 ha of the project area are irrigated
exclusively from groundwater. The quality of surface and ground water is good
and highly suitable for irrigation.
2.06      Water Rights.  Water rights in the Southern Region, as elsewhere in
YAR, follow the principle that water is free of charge for human and animal
consumption. The use of water for irrigation, whether from the stream flow or
from wells, is under private ownership. In spate-irrigated areas, the
upstream landowners have priority to divert and use the water up to their full
requirements, without abuse. The storage of water in small reservoirs behind
ancient dams is an accepted practice, in accordance with the historical water
rights of tie various beneficiaries.
Soeo-EcoE omic Features
2.07      Population. The region has a rural population of about 1.6 million
inhabitants, in about 270,000 families out of a total population of about 2.4
million. About 200,000 of these families are involved, to various degrees, in
agriculture and are distributed over some 5,000 villages and hamlets.
Emigration of male family members from the region, mainly to neighboring Saudi
Arabia, has contributed to cash incomes, but caused serious changes in the
pattern of farm labor. It is estimated that one household in th',e has a male
family member outside the region. In cases in which this member was the head
of the household and no other adult male remained in the family, the full
responsibility of farming as well as the household has been assumed by the
women.
2.08      Land Tenure and Production Unit Size. Agriculture in Taiz and Ibb
Governorates is almost entirely based on privately owned holdings which
represent about 83X of cultivable land. Wagf or rel4gious trust lands account
for 15% and state lands 22. Farm size varies as follows:
Table 2.1: Landholdbg Pattern
Farm Size (ha)                     2 of
Range           Average     Number      Total     Total Area
('000)               ('000 ha)
1.3-3.5                1.55         90         45          140
0.5-1.0                0.75         50         25           37
Less than 0.5          0.30         60         30           18
Total             1.00       200         100          195
2044C



- 11 -
More than half of the holdings are less than 1.0 ha in size. Because most of
these small holdings are owned by either part-time farmers or absentee-owners,
and are operated as part of larger units, the number of farm units which are
potential clients of the extension service is about 120,000.
2.09      Crop sharinR. According to MAF census, 642 of farm units are
totally owner-occupied and 222 are in a system of mixed ownership and crop
sharing. Only 141 are totally sharecropper-occupied, mostly in larger units
with irrigation. In cases where crop sharing prevails, the landowner,
well-owner and sharecropper divide the gross income at 25S, 25S, and 502
respectively. Traditionally, the provision of labor, traction and all inputs
other than water has been the responsibility of the sharecropper.
aIzatoand Agicultural Support Serices
2.10      Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU). This was
established by the Government of YAR in 1976 as an operating unit within MAF
responsible directly to the Minister for implementing the IDA-financed SURDP I
and II projects (Crs. 545 and 1067-YAR). SURDU which covers both Taiz and Ibb
Governorates operates out of its headquarter at Taiz. The unit has been
working within guidelines set by MAY, with autonomous status in all
operational and financial matters related to the projects and assisted by a
coordinating committee, chaired by the Minister, for liaison with other
ministries and/or agencies. SURDU has been functioning adequately with help
from expatriate experts under various technical assistance programs, but is
still handicapped by a shortage of suitably qualified local staff and a lack
of sufficient funds for operation and infrastructure maintenance (para. 4.01).
2.11      Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative Development
(CLCCD). Previously known as Confederation of Yemeni Development Association
(CYDA), this organization was established in 1973 to administer and provide
technical assistance to village level Local Councils for Cooperative
Development (LCCD), formerly known as Local Development Associations (LDAs),
which provide their communities with services such as the construction and
maintenance of rural roads, water supply schemes, mosques, schools, etc.
CLCCD is headquartered in Sana'a and has a cadre of permanent administrative
and technical staff, and its Secretary General has the rank of a Minister.
CLCCD receives its budget mainly from the agricultural production taxes
including Zakat (para. 5.15). There are several LCCDs in the project area
which are actively involved in rural services. With technical assistance from
SURDU, they have been successfully involved in the implementation of the Rural
Road and Water Supply components under SURDP I and II projects.
2.12      Extension.  SURDU had made notable progress in providing an
extension service for the region. The service began in 1976 on a small scale
under SURDP I project (Cr. 545-YAR), and was later strengthened and expanded
to include more areas under SURDP II project (Cr. 1067-YAR). Currently, there
are 81 extension agents operating from 71 extension centers, and 25 extension
supervisors and subject matter specialists (SMSs) operating from 8 block
centers and Governorate extension offices, all established under SURDP I and
11. The service has effectively extended high yielding technology to some
40,000 farm units representing about 70,000 ha scattered throughout the
region. The service has, however, yet to cover all the areas and farmers of
2044C



- 12 -
the region where technology is available for dissemination. In addition to
the shortage of staff, extension is still constrained by: (a) poor quality of
staff; (b) absence of female agriculture extension agents; (c) inadequate
training; (d) inadequate audiovisual facilities; and (e) poor monitoring and
evaluation.
2.13      Rural Development for Women.  Recognizing the need to improve rural
living standards, SURDU initiated, in 1978, special services for rural
development for women as part of the extension program. These services,
supported by SURDP I and II projects (Irs. 545 and 1067-YAR), emphasized
literacy programs which gradually shifted towards home economics and more
recently, towards agriculture. In response to the increasing role of women in
all aspects of agriculture, the program now includes some extension activities
in animal husbandry, apiary and vegetable gardening and is staffed with 1 head
and 12 agents (all women), who have been operating largely from SURDU's
headquarters. There has been some turnover in the recruited agents mainly
attributed to long distance commuting and reluctance of parents/husbands to
allow daughters/wives agents to work away from home. This attitude, however,
is slowly changing. Because of the absence of female agriculture extension
agents and the existing cultural traditions which restrain male extension
agents from directly contacting female farmers, the impact of the service on
the women has been small. The project would address the issue of female
extension agents, taking into consideration the fact that induction of women
into rural development has to be gradual, sensitive to local culture, and
supplemented with properly planned training (paras. 3.10-3.16).
2.14      Agricultural Research.  One regional research station for Taiz and a
subregional research farm for Ibb, established in 1973, are being run by the
ARA, present.y headquartered in Taiz.  Experimental work has covered cereals,
vegetables, legumes and fruits in low rainfall, high rainfall and irrigated
areas and resulted in recommendations being developed for application by
farmers mainly in regard to: (a) improved varieties in sorghum, bananas,
maize, potatoes, and citrus; (b) pest control; and (c) use of nitrogen,
phosphorus and potassium fertilizers. Areas in research requiring more
attention are irrigation technology, seeding techniques, farm mechanization
and livestock management and nutrition. Also, given the largely ad hoc
contacts between research and extension staff and the inadequate information
system, ongoing efforts for better research/extension linkages need to be
strengthened.
2.15      Agricultural Credit.  The primary source of institutional credit for
agriculture in the region is CACB (para. 1.19). Two CACB branches (Taiz and
Ibb) and two subbranches (Turbah and Yarim) operate in the region. In 1985,
their disbursements amounted to YRls 6.6 million in short-term loans (702 for
operational expenses) and YRls 27.4 million in medium-term loans (42% for
irrigation, 321 for poultry and 26% for tractors and accessories). The loan
recovery rate in the region was about 70% in 1985.
h.lgtion Praeties
2.16      Surface Irrigation is based on water diverted by traditional
offtakes and conveyed to the fields through poorly maintained
2044C



- 13 -
unlined canals.  There are numerous small old dams in the project area that
are mostly silted up, but still provide some measure of regulation of stream
flows by retarding flow velocities and inducing infiltration to produce base
flow. The couveyance, distribution and application efficiencies in the
existing system are low, resulting in an overall efficiency of about 302. The
water application is by flooding, and there are no permanent structures to
control or regulate flow. The fields are poorly graded, resulting in uneven
water application.
2.17      Groundwater Irrigation is mainly through dug wells and boreholes,
ranging in depth from 20-100 meters. The conveyance and distribution system
is rudimentary; however, GI pipes and PVC pipes are increasingly being used.
The use of sprinklers and drip irrigation is virtually non-existent. The
present irrigation efficiency is low, estimated at about 35S.
2.18      Croroina Pattern.  Of the 195,000 ha of cultivated land in the
region, about 751 are rainfed, of which about 501 are located in the 400-500
- rainfall zone, and about 251 are either totally or partially irrigated.
Field crops occupy about 95S of the cultivated area. Sorghum is the main crop
(721) followed by wheat (10) and maize (92) and the rest (91) is cultivated
with pulses, vegetables and alfalfa (Annex 1, Table 3). gat is grown on about
9,000 ha. Perennial crops, mainly coffee, bananas and citrus, occupy about
2,000 ha. Interest in fruit tree cultivation has been increasing, spurred by
the ban on fruit imports.
2.19      Cultural Practices and Farm Inputs.  Most farmers use seeds they
produce. However, limited quantities of improved seeds of wheat, maize and
sorghum are being produced under the Seed Multiplication Project (managed by
the YAR Government with assistance from EEC) and of potatoes under the Seed
Potato Production Project (supported by the Government of the Notherlands).
Vegetable seeds are mostly imported, and fruit tree seedlings are being
produced locally in SURDU's nurseries supplemented by some imports of citrus
and deciduous fruit seedlings. Almost all farmers in the region use tractors
(mainly oversized) for initial cultivation, but about 80% use draft animals
for secondary cultivation and other activities such as harvest and transport.
Crop diversification in the irrigated and higher rainfall areas, coupled with
paucity of labor, has created interest in labor saving implements, such as,
potato planters/ridgers, seed drills, potato lifters, land levellers,
harvesters and stationary threshers. Use of animal manure (mainly poultry)
has been sharply increasing in the last few years, particularly in the
irrigated areas. The use of chemical fertilizer has reached about 10,000 tons
of urea annually, but still represents only about 40-50% of the recommended
quantity. Phosphate and potassic fertilizers have generally not been
available. Limited quantities of these fertilizers, as well as a more
effective promotion program for their use, would be provided under the
proposed project. Chemicals for plant protection have been used by some
progressive farmers, mainly on vegetables, potatoes and fruit trees; but their
use has not been extensive.
2.20     A4ricultural Pro4uction and Crop Yields.  Agricultural production in
the project area has been increasing as a result of improved support services
1044C



- 14 -
introduced through three IDA-assisted projects and other programs in the
region and the adoption by farmers of improved practices, such as the use of
machinery, pesticides, fertilixers and improved seeds, and thus obtaining
higher yields. Also, higher prices for fruits and vegetables have encouraged
their development. However, adoption of improved technology by the farmers
needs to be more widespread.
A       Prodwtion
2.21      Resources.  Animals are kept for meat, milk and egg production and
for draft purposes. While ruminants are mainly of indigenous breeds, poultry
are mainly of improved breeds. The poultry industry which has been growing
rapidly - the number of birds currently estimated at about 20 million -
mainly consists of coumnercial size farms. Alout 80% of land holdings have
cattle (average of 2/holding), and less than 15S of holdings have sheep and
goats (average stock 15 heads). The main resources available for livestock
feeding consist of grazing on the field crop areas (130,000 ha), crop
by-products (about 400,000 tons) and small quantities of green forage.
2.22      Production Practices.  Livestock production practices are basically
traditional, and production suffers due to poor nutrition. There has been
little livestock research in the region to date. However, the extension
service has demonstrated the introduction of forage legumes within a cereal
rotation, which has found acceptance with some farmers. Improved feeding
methods have also been successfully demonstrated, and breed improvement
progras have been initiated. The region's livestock sector holds
considerable development potential for which research and extension efforts
will have to be coordinated in order to introduce the technologies best suited
to the conditions of the region. Veterinary services also need to be
supplemented with additional staff, veterinary equipment and laboratory
facilities.
M.L THE PROJECT
A. Project RationAle. Obiecives and Scope
Proet Rationale
3.01      For the agriculture sector to continue to play a vital role in the
economy of YAR, agricultural production needs to be made more efficient
through: (a) introduction of improved technologies; (b) strengthening of
institutions required to maintain and improve support services to farmers; (c)
rational exploitation of the country's limited water resources; and (d)
special assistance to the rural women whose role in agriculture has become
more prominent as a result of male migration. The rationale of the project is
to seek to apply these considerations to the high-potential Southern Region,
building on experiences gained under previous projects (SURDP I and II). It
is also expected that the project, along with the Tihama V project (Cr.
1667-YAR), would provide the basis for the development of national
institutions for support services.
3.02      Technology for increasing agriculturel production already exists for
most parts of the Southern Region (both rainfed and irrigated) and is expected
2044C



- 15 -
to continue to be developed under the ongoing Agricultural Research and
Development Project (Cr. 1259-YAR). This should be effectively extended to
all the farmers of the region including women. Appreciable success has been
achieved in extension and animal health services under SURDP I and II
(Crs. 545-and 1067-YAR) as evidenced by higher yields. The proposed project
would improve and expand the coverage of these services, strengthen the
service for rural development for women and establish an O&M service.
Objeetvs  and Scone
3.03      The main objectives of the project are to (i) increase agricultural
productivity and incomes of farmers including those of the low rainfall
(400-500 m) areas of the region by means of: (a) improved agricultural
services; (b) improved utilization of land and water resources; and (c)
special assistance to women farmers; and (ii) improve the health/nutrition
standards of the rural families through improved extension services to the
rural women. This would help increase agricultural production, primarily
sorghum, maize, potatoes, wheat, pulses, fruits, vegetables, meat, and milk in
the project area, thus contributing to efficient import substitution,
accompanied by improvement in the standard of living of the rural population.
The project components would comprise: (i) regional agricultural extension
service, including rural development for women; (ii) regional veterinary
service; (iii) tree nursery development; (iv) provision of fertilizer; (v)
support to CACB; (vi) irrigation development; (vii) establishment of regional
o&M service; and (viii) technical assistance and training.
BL Dtailed Proojet Features
Rbonal AiculturalExtension Service (Base Cot US$8.9 Miion)
3.04      Extension Organization and Structure. The project would establish
an agricultural extension service in each Governorate with direct
responsibilities for all extension activities. SURDU would be responsible for
the overall extension programs of the region during the project implementation
period, and would prepare and develop the extension sections of the
Governorates to take over all agricultural extension responsibilities after
project completion. The service would be structured with a single line of
coumand and clear definition of responsibility and accountability. It would
allow for strict planning, proper monitoring and evaluation, staff training,
technical support and strong and effective coordination with research.
3.05      To provide adequate extension services to the estimated 120,000 farm
urits for which proven improved technology exists, about 140 extensionists
(agents, supervisors and SMSs) would be required at 1 for 800-900 farm units.
Compared with present staffing, there would be an increase in the male
extension service by 34 extensionists [(20 extension agents and 14 extension
supervisors and SMSs) (Annex 1, Table 4)]. These would be supplemented by
about 18 female agriculture extension agents. In deploying staff, account
would be taken of the size of cropped area, ratio of irrigated vs. rainfed
land, the cropping intensity, travel distances and farmers' level of adoption
of improved technology. Local staff, generally from the project area, are
expected to be available for recruitment during the six-year project
sn^-c



- 16 _
implementation period. Bach agent, operating from one extension center, would
be assigned responsibility for a specific territory and held accountable for
providing assistance in all aspects of the farming system to resident farm
families. To allow for complete mobility, each agent would be provided with
one motorcycle.
3.06      The agents would be regularly supervised by extension supervisors,
and would also receive technical support and in-service training from PSs in
special areas of expertise. Each block center serving about 8-12 extension
centers, would be staffed with one supervisor and 3-4 SM8s.
3.07      Extension Methodology. The service would support two complomentary
and mutually reinforcing approaches to extension and information transfor,
based on personal contacts between the extension agents and farmers, on the
one hand, and the use of mass communication and audiovisual aids, on the
other. As for personal contacts, these would be achieved through field
demonstrations (500 to 2,000 square meter plots in farmers' fields), regular
farm visits to 10-12 lead farmers and about 10 contact farmers per lead
farmer, and field days (farmers gathering in field demonstrations to discuss
iproved technology) to be conducted with the participation of farmers, the
research organization, CACB and private traders. The participation of traders
is important in so far as the demonstrated improved tecbnology involves
tradeable inputs. These activities would be supplemented by information
transfer based on the use of mass communication and audiovisual aids (slides,
movies, videos and publications), by strengthening the effort initiated under
IDA assisted SURDP I and II projects.
3.08      Linkaaes with Research. Close interrelationship between the
extension service and research would be developed through an intensive
schedule of interactions between the extension and research staff in research
fields as well as in farmers' fields where verification trials and field
demonstrations are conducted. SURDU and ARA, which have formed joint research
and extension groups, would reinforce such groups by inviting farmer and
trader participation and regulating contacts through an intensive schedule of
programmed interaction activities.
3.09      Investments.  Civil works estimated to cos08  about US$4.7
mlllion,4l would dmaly include a training and informatioa center (40% of
its cost is prorated to the Rural Development for Women Component, which would
share the same facilities), 3 block centers and 30 extension centers. The
cost of vehicles and equipment (Annex 1, Table 5) would be US$2.1 million, and
techaical assistance [300 staff months (s/m)] and foreign training (150 a/m)
would total US$2.0 million.
Ruwall OUO e- for Women oBae Cost UA$28 bmIIQP
3.10     Aim and ScoDQ. The proposed project would assist in further
developing ongoing activities in rural development for women in the Southern
Region (para. 2.13). The service would focus on both agricultural and
non-agricultural aspects. As for the agricultural aspects, female extension
agents would be employed and trained to transfer agriculture information to
wome. This would be done on a pilot basis appropriate to the availability
I All amounts stated include contingencies.
2044C



- 17 -
and acceptability of female extensionists to undertake such work. If, over
time, the cultural context is changed and male extension agents can contact
women farmers, male and female agents could work in common units to serve all
farmers. The female agriculture extension service would otherwise need to be
expanded. This would be closely monitored and evaluated during project
implementatLon.
3.11      Organization and Structure.  The women's extension service would be
organized as an independent entity, largely with separate facilities, under
the overall extension service at SURDU and at the Governorate level. It would
operate as a section under SURDU's Extension Division and as a subsection
under each of the Tait and Ibb Governorates' extension sections. With a
structure similar to that of the male extension service (para. 3.04), it would
comprise female extension agents (agriculturists and home economists),
extension supervisors and SMSs in home economics/nutrition matters. Subject
matter support in agriculture would be drawn directly from the male extension
service.
3.12      The project would provide for a gradual increase in the number of
female extension agents from 12 to 27, of whom 18 would be in agriculture and
9 in home economics. Three agents would operate (two in agriculture and one
in home economics) from each of the nine extension centers that would be
established (para. 3.14). The agriculture agents would be assigned to
specific territories covering 500-600 women farmers per agent and would be
responsible for providing assistance to them. On the same pattern, the home
economics agents would provide assistance to the rural women in aspects
related to health, nutrition and child care (including child spacing) and the
use of "appropriate technology", such as the use of solar water heater, mud
stoves, and milk churn, which would improve the living and working conditions
of the rural women. The extension methodology, as in male extension service
(para 3.07), would emphasize direct contacts with lead women farmers through
farm visits and field demonstrations supplement.;.1 with mass communication and
the use of audio-visual aids. The target women population would include: (a)
women with small farm holdings; (b) women having livestock; and (c) landless
women.
3.13      The agents would be regularly supervised by female supervisors
operating from the subsections at the Governorate level (one supervisor for
nine extension agents) and would receive regular technical support and
in-service training from SMSs. At the headquarters level in Taiz, the manager
of the Rural Development for Women program, assisted by SMSs in home economics
and nutrition and one female agriculturist/coordinator, would be responsible
for the overall planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the
women's program, including formulation of annual and quarterly work programs.
The activities of the male and female agricultural extension services would be
properly coordinated so as to ensure that the technical packages disseminated
by the two groups are consistent. The service would concentrate on only 3-4
of the technological practices available for dissemination at any one time,
taking into consideration the women's needs, capability of the agents, and the
acceptability of the technology to the women.
3.14      Extension Centers for Women.  Nine extension centers would be
established, six in Taiz Governorate and three in Ibb Governorate. One female
InAlle 



_ 18 -
supervisor would monitor the activities of three centers. The rationale for
establishing more centers in Taiz is primarily due to rel'itively greater
success in Tais of the ongoing program. The centers would be in Turba and
Hoban areas of Tais Governorate and Udayn area of the Ibb Governorate (Map,
IBRD 19801) and the specific locations site be decided by the service with
assistance from village leaders after the results of the baseline survey
(para. 3.15) are known, and based on the following criteria: (a) high male
migration, (b) significant role for women in agriculture, (c) remoteness from
major towns and (d) presence of poor and landless women. Each center woilld be
about 150 square meters in area and would comprise one office, one
demonstration kitchen, one bathroom, two training rooms, one guestroom with
overnight accommodation, and two small storerooms.
3.15      Baseline Survey.  Given the absence of any detailed data on
socioeconomic conditions of women in the area, a detailed baseline survey
would be carried out in the first year of project implementation. The survey
would be undertaken in 12 lo;. tions, 9 of which are those of the proposed
extension centers.  The remaining three would serve as control areas.  The
information to be sought would include: (a) basic population data, (b) social,
health and standard of living indicators, (c) household conditions,
(d) agriculture holdings (land and livestock) and (e) women's activities in
the household and in agriculture.  The survey would be carrIed out by the
existing women's program of SURDU, assisted by one consultant for one year.
The results of the survey would assist the service in providing the basic
information for better planning of the program and would serve as a yardstick
to help measure progress and in selecting the location of the centers.
3.16      Investment.  Civil works estimated to cost about US$1.2 million
would mainly comprise construction of nine extension centers, one training and
information center that would be shared with the male extension service
(para. 3.09) and five offices. The cost of vehicles and equipment would be
US$0.4 million (Annex 1, Table 5), and of technical assistance (132 s/m) and
foreign training (56 s/l) would be US$0.9 million.
Reigonl Veterinar Service (Em Cost US$0.7 Mllion)
3.17      The veterinary services currently carried out by SURDU would be
strengthened and expanded to cover all of the Southern Region, and would
continue to focus on rinderpest and sheep pox vaccination and animal
treatments for control of internal and external parasites. The cost of
medicines for animal treatment would continue to be recovered from livestock
owners, and the vaccination to be carried out as part of a preventive program
would be free of cost to livestock owners. Wherever possible, the private
sector would be encouraged, through training, to gradually assume a role in
the provision of such measures. The organization of the service would be
similar to that of the extension, with headquarters at SURDU and subsections
at the Governorate level. The existing veterinary staff (one veterinary
office and 21 vaccinators) would be supplemented with two veterinarians and
nine veterinary assistants. The number of existing vaccinators, one to 20,000
animals is considered adequate. A total of five animal production staff, who
are part of the present structure of the veterinary service, but whose tasks
are extension by nature would, under the project, be transferred to the
2044C



- 19 -
Extension Service by end December 1987. An assurance to that effect was
obtained from the Government during negotiations (para. 6.01 (a)].
3.18      Investment.  The component would include vehicles and equipment
(surgical and field veterinary instruments) at an estimated cost of
US$0.1 million, and would provide a veterinarian expert (30 s/m).
Tree NurserY DeveloDmeut (Em Cost U$0.7 Mimo
3.19      At present, SURDU has two nurseries, one in Warazan (Tais
Governorate) and one in Ibb (Ibb Governorate). The production in Warazan
focuses on tropical and subtropical species, while the production in Ibb
focuses on deciduous fruits (peaches, strawberries) and citrus. The total
production of planting material has been gradually increasing since 1981,
reaching about 330,000 seedlings in 1985, of which about 502 is destined to
the Southern Region. Seedlings are sold to farmers at cost. Domestic demand
for fruits and coffee has been steadily increasing since 1983 and additional
demand of about 275,000 seedlings is expected to be generated by the project
by end 1992. Nursery rapacity under SURDU would be expanded to satisfy these
additional requirements. This would be achieved by: (a) rearranging
production at the existing Ibb nursery to specialize mainly in citrus
production (70,000), (b) expanding production at Warazan with additional
capacity for coffee and tropical fruits, and (c) establishing a new nursery at
Yarim (Ibb Governorate) specializing in deciduous plant production.
3.20      Investment. Civil works would mainly comprise the construction of
nursery fences, shaded beds, and machine shed costing US$0.5 million. The
equipment and vehicles (Annex 1, Table 5) are estimated to cost US$0.3 million.
PrEviio of Fertlizer (Bane Cost US$1.5 Milio)
3.21      Provision of Fertilizer.  At present, availability of fertilizer in
the project area is inadequate. Data on fertilizer demand and supply in the
project area, as well as in the country as a whole, are scarce. The mission
estimates that, for the project area in 1985, about 10,000 cons of urea had
been used and none of phosphate or potash. The estimated potential use for
fertilizer for 1986 is estimated at about 13,000 tons of urea, 1,000 tons of
phosphate and 200 tons of potash, revealing a shortage of 3,000, 1,000 and 200
tons, respectively (Annex 1, Table 6). In the case of urea, the shortage has
been mainly due to: (a) deliveries to traders and thereafter to farmers
obtained under foreign grants not being adequate and timely, (b) lack of
timely advance information about when and how much urea may be expected to be
received through foreign grants and (c) the general foreign exchange
constraints in the country. Regarding phosphate and potash where the demand,
so far, has been small, despite the benefits of their application (Annex 1,
Table 7), the shortages have been mainly due to the traders' reluctance to
import such bulky commodities which are not in strong enough demand,
especially in times of foreign exchange constraints. In addition, traders in
general are less familiar with potash and phosphate than with urea.
3.22      As a result of project extension activities, the use of fertilizer
will be more vigorously and effectively demonstrated to farmers and traders,
O2Allp



-0 -
and the annual unmet estimated p4to tial   iad (asuuing current supply
remains constant) Is expected to fincre&e by year six of the project to about
7,000, 1,400 and 6,500 tons of phos g te, potah and urea, respectively
(Annex 1, Table 6). To ensure timely, av;ilability of phosphate and potash in
the project area, particularly at this critical promtional stage, the projact
would provide finansing over a; four year period beginning 1988 for the
purchase of 7,000 %id 1,400 tosis,.re ectively, Th!,s would represent a
declining proportion (1001, 75t, 501 and 30X) of the total annual project
requirements of these types of fertizeser. The estimatd cost of this
component is US$1.7 million (incluwing co tingencies). Regarding urea, where
the demand has beenvwell established, it is expected that the traders would
meet the additional demand. To ensure timely availability of adequate
quantities of fertilizer In the pr4ject area, the Government would:
(a) provide timely advance informat£pn to the private sector on the timing and
quantities of fertilizer available unaer foreign grants and (b) simplify the
procedures for granting import licenses for fertilizer which are used as an
indirect means of allocating foreign emchange. Assurances from the Government
to this effect were obtained during negotiations [para. 6.01(b)].
SiWRuxt to CACB oBase Cost NUSt.3 
3.23      Support to GACB.  The project is expected to generate additional
credit requirements as a result of farmers adopting improved practices
(para. 3.35). While many farewrs week credit elsewhere, CACB remains the main
institutional source of short- and medium-term credit (para. 2.15).  In order
to cover new areas under the project 1b which CACB Is not currently
represented (extreme western and eastern parts), provision would be made for
the establishment of two subbranches. Also: to Improve the mobility of CACB
staff, the project would provide funds for tour additional vehicles
(US$0.l million).
kBsift1on De Base cot USS3.1 Millio)
3.24      The irrigation component under the project aims at: (a) increasing
irrigation efficiency of areas presently under irrigation by means of
establishing demoustration farms for farmers' training; (b) rehabilitating
existing irrigation schemes including some small dams, thereby increasing the
availability of su-face water for irrigation; and (c) studying the feasibility
of constructing a dam on Wadi Bana, a major source of water in the region.
3.25      Demonstration Farms.  The irrigation efficiency in pump-irrigated
areas is expected to be increased from about 351 at present to about 50% by:
(a) reducing water losses in the main canal and distribution system by
installing buried PVC pipes; (b) constructing permanent control structures;
and (c) introducing land smoothing and levelling. Further increases in
irrigation efficiency to about 65% would be sought through the use of
sprinkler and drip irrigation. To achieve this, the project would provide
guidanee to farmers through demonstrations of improved irrigation practices
and advice and technical assistance in the im$lementation of on-farm works.
The estimated per ha cost of installation of on farm works (pumping unit,
2044C



- 21 -
buried PVC pipes and fittings, and land levelling) for basins and furrow
irrigation is about YRli 13,000 and the average annual operating coat is about
YRis 2,000. The per ha installation and annual operating costs of
minisprinklers and drip irrigation systems are about YRls 27,000 and 4,000,
respectively. The project would establish in the vicinity of the extension
block centers, 11 pump-irrigated and 11 sprinkler and drip-irrigated farms for
demonstration purposes, costing US$0.15 million. The farmers would provide
land and wells, for these development works.
3.26      Rehabilitation of Existing Small Irrigation Schemes.  There are
several old small irrigation schemes, including small dams in the project
area. The dams are silted up and left with very little storage capacity,
their spillway and outlet works are damaged, and their conveyance and
irrigation distribution systems are rudimentary and inefficient. Under the
project and on a pilot basis, six schemes for which data on runoff, are
available, would be rehabilitated (Annex 1, Table 8). Some of these schemes
could be replaced by others if sufficient data for Ruch schemes are made
available during project implementation. The work, for each scheme site on
the average, involves embankment placement (2,500 m3), laying of gabions and
flexible aproas (500 M3) small quantities of reinforced concrete (10 m3)
and a distribution system. The detailed designs for the identified six
schemes are being prepared by consulting engineers financed under a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), Number P387. The project would provide the funds
for rehabilitating these schemes to serve a total net irrigated area of about
350 ha, costing about US$2.1 million at an average per ha cost of US$5,900.
3.27      Wadi Bana Dam Study.  There is a potential for the construction of
an irrigation dam on Wadi Bana, which has its catchment area in YAR, and is a
major source of surface water flow in the project area. A study to assess
this potential would be carried out in two stages. The first stage would
involve site identification and the second stage would be a complete
feasibility study. During the first stage, the study would identify potential
dam sites (located mainly on the upper tributaries) and would include
hydrological evaluation of the Wadi and, for each site: (a) the preparation of
area-capacity curves; (b) surfacial geological interpretations, and (c)
locating sources for fill aid construction materials. The second stage would
for each potential dam site, include a conceptual design with cost and
preliminary economic analysis and, on that basis, a recommendation of a dam
site would be made for detailed investigation and design. Wadi Bana flows out
of YAR and discharges into the Gulf of Aden through PDRY, where its waters are
also used for irrigation, which might be affected by the storage of water in
YAR. To reduce that risk, only potential sites in the tributaries of Wadi
Bana in the upper watershed, where storage of water is expected to have little
effect on the flow of the Wadi rather than in the main Wadi itself would be
investigated. Nonetheless, the effect of the proposed dam in YAR on the
current use of Wadi Bana waters in PDRY would be fully studied. Therefore,
the terms of reference (Annex 2) of both stages include full examination of
potential riparian issues, if any, that may arise from the subsequent
construction of the dam. Furthermore, following the identification stage, the
YAR Government would provide IDA with the findings of the first stage of the
study and obtain IDA agreement before proceeding with the feasibility study
under the project to ensure that riparian issues, if any, would be
considered. Assurances in this regard were obtained during negotiations
[para. 6.01(c)].
2ndar



- 22 -
ReidandOperation and       _     (0 OM  See Ma  cost U        3ii
3.28      To attain adequate operation and maintenance of project facilities
and infrastructure constructed in the agriculture sector, an O&M service would
be established for the Southern Region. The activities of the service would
comprise; (a) maintenance of buildings and equipment including those provided
under IDA-assisted SURDP I and II projects (Cra. 545- and 1067-YAR); (b)
teebical assistance to the CLCCD in the O&M of irrigation and water supply
schemes and (c) technical assistance to the extension service on design and
implementation of on-farm irrigation works. The service would be structured
on lines similar to other support services under the project. During the
project implementation period, the overall responsibility for the service
would be entrusted to the W5H Division of SURDU. Subsequently, and as their
capabilities are developed, this responsibility would be transferred to the
06H sections at the Governorate level.  It would be properly linked with MAF
headquarters as a step towards the establishment of a national organization
for O&M.
3.29      Investment. The cost of buildings (six offices, six houses, one
workshop and two stores) would be US$0.5 million. The equipment and vehicles
(Annex 1, Table 5) would cost US$1.4 million, and technical assistance
comprising 228 s/m of engineering experts and 54 s/m of foreign training would
total US$1.2 million.
Techica Assstance and  lh
3.30      Technical Assistance. The project would provide about 58
staff-years (sly) of technical assistance (Annex 1, Table 9) in the fields of
agriculture extension, rural development for women, veterinary, irrigation
iWprovement and operation and maintenance services. This is designed such
that the expatriate experts would gradually be phased out over 4-5 years and,
thereafter, the relevant services would be provided solely by the national
staff. Five experts (18.5 s/y) originally employed under SURDP II would
continue under the proposed project (para. 4.06).
3.31      The agriculture experts would assist SURDU at the headquarters level
in the overall planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the
agriculture extension activities including rural development for women. They
would also provide technical support and training to SMS8, extension
supervisors, extension agents and veterinary staff at the Governorate level.
The engineering experts and consultants would assist SURDU in the: (a) design
and construction supervision of the irrigation infrastructure works,
(b) establishment of an OEM service, and (c) study of the feasibility of
constructing a dam on Wadi Bana.
3.32      The terms of reference of the experts and consultants would
emphasize training of the Yemeni staff. This would pave the way for a smooth
and effective takeover by the Yemenis of the major tasks of the project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would appoint
qualified and experienced experts in accordance with the appointment schedule
given in Annex 1, Table 9 [para. 6.01(d)l.
284AE



- 23 -
3.33      Training.  In addition to on-the-job, project-related training that
would be provided by the appointed experts, the project would provide for
foreign as well as local training. The foreign training would constitute
22 sly of wbich 18 s/y (13 in agriculture and 5 in engineering) would be for
higher education and about 4 s/y for study tours. The agricultural training
would cover eight trainees of 12-24 months each in the fields of agriculture
extension, monitoring and evaluation, home economics, commmication,
horticulture and plant protection. The engineering training would cover six
trainees (9 months each) in the fields of irrigation, water resources and
operation and maintenance. The study tours would involve visits by senior
extension and O&M staff to countries where successful programs are under
implementations.
3.34      Local Training.  The thrust of local training under the project
would mainly be on project-related technology as well as extension
methodology. The training unit of the SURDU's Extension Division would
provide training to the local staff in the fields of project-related
technology, and project orientation and extension methodology, and would also
provide refresher courses to the SMSs. In addition, the training of the
female agents of the rural development for women program would include an
introduction to agriculture and to home economics/nutrition. More detailed
description of the training courses is given in Annex 3.
MStW  Cred
3.35      Following successful demonstration of improved agricultural,
livestock, and irrigation practices, as well as home economics - related
"appropriate technology", beneficiaries would be expected to adopt such
practices. Since these practices would involve additional costs for on-farm
investments, cultivation and inputs, -dditional credit for such purposes would
be required. It is estimated that 601 of the farmers of the area, who are
expected to adopt the recommended practices, would require additional medium-
and short-term credit totalling about YRls 48 million and IRls 18 million
respectively. CACB has undertaken to meet the incremental credit requirement&.
of the project. The medium-term credit is primarily for on-farm investment,
including irrigation, machinery and tree crop development. The short-term
credit, which is primarily for inputs (fertilizer, seeds, pesticides, etc.),
represents 1001 of input cost in the first year of development, reducing to
40% over a period of six years. The Government has agreed to provide CACB
with necessary resources to meet the additional credit needs of the project.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from the Government during
negotiations (para 6.01(e)].
C. Cost Estmate
3.36      The total cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
allowances for expected price increases, is estimated to be YRls 731.7 million
(US$28.5 million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of US$17.3
million accounting for 61% of total cost. The base costs are calculated using
unit costs of May 1986 adjusted to end of January 1987. The costs of vehicles
and machinery include necessary spare parts. The project would be implemented
over six years, with disbursement period extending to seven years (paras. 3.45
and 4.05). Physical contingencies on construction costs have
2044C



- 24 -
been calculated at 151 an  on equipmnt at 101. Annual allowances for
epected price neasoes on the foreign ed cange component were calceilated at
3.01 in 1987, 1.01 is 1988-1990 and 3.51 in 1991-1993, and on the local
compoet at 351 In 1987-1988, 301 In 1989-1990, 201 in 1991 and 152 in
1992-1993- The estimate does not include taxes from which the project is
exmpt.  The amual inremetal recurrent cost in year six of the project
mplementation Perio  of the regional service  (extension, including rural
development for woman, veterinary, and 06  including those for the irrigation
schemes) is estimated In 1986 prices at US$1.91 million equivalent.
Assurances from the L wernment were obtained during negotiations that
sufficient funds would be made available to meet the full operation and
maintenance costs of all facilities and services to be established under the
project [para. 6.01(f)I. Details of cost estimates suamarixed below
(Table 3.1) are presented in Annex 1, Tables l0(a, b, c, and d).
TaMe 3.1: Proia* Cos Etiuate4l
=KIN  OK um  oune M    M
-Z ~~   Tii                           : t
2 Fevute~aw hut                  ,  Raw
L2.3   wulm1.5.  fwusiii PMt rem" kw
a.a;m  tou  2w$ u
23.0.5 53.30.2 79,716  64  Jo 3.35.? 542.2 3.53.    64  a3
551 KWWIWRFs 59   37. 34.9MA. 15 0       5    2 3*174.9 1.89.1 2*34.0   i9  32
WIIRIUSY       ~~~~3.12940 2.flI.  554.3    41    3  341.3  332.  659.    41    3
P15*11W uS 31A  20*93w. 26=435 47.521  U6   2  233)1.9 2.9 3.)52W.?    U    23
1..to I US  SI     6).W.? 95.33. 3344.5        76 14)3.339WPM. 37.0Y.6    A3   M
3.113  uWIW        l."4W.  4,43.  646409    69    322. 496. 1I M3    69    3
C. mititnazt            60l9 35.23. 33..     95        ?I34 3,4176 1449.3   95 
*.M                    Ism      . 1 .916. t_       I  347.1 f1.4  WAl   E      I
total    cm 533 6..5.A nhl^t                   6  to r t3r 61464W 203.9    0    W*
It,w*eel CumAmeteod    SOMA3 9*373. M5.37.    a5    1  33. 3.0.5 .1S.6a    6s    7
mrc, Camt!iNMI"      233.1t?. 21141.434.33.  59  2M  2.35.A 3.23  3.33.5   a    a
- - a.n .-. -  -- - - -- -
Tsuital    M    31353 01  340*1.3431.31633.4*  5   309 33.253.6 311263. 3.51  63  M2
........._................. .
m                   mi    m     m..      .     ......  -     -   -
Differences ame due to rouinding.
*0*4^$144o.sI #l1b  



- 25 -
D. FU!
3.37            The IDA credit of SDRs 9.8 million (US$12.3 million equivalent)
would finance 712 of the foreign exchange component or about 431 of the total
project cost. The balance of the project coat (US$16.2 million) would be
financed by the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), IFAD and the YAR
Government. IDA would adlinister the funds of SDC and IFAD. The detailed
project financing plan as agreed upon during the cofinanciers' meeting would
be as follows:
Table 3.2  Project Financing Plan
SDA               J W                   SDC             YAR Cohv't                  Total
foreign  Local    foreign  Local    foreign  total           Foreign  Local    Foreign   tocal    Total
---------- ----------  (us$ million) ---------------------
Citvi Works
Extension Service                2.4      2.3         .                  -        -                                         2.3       4.7
Rural Oevt. for Wo0 -                     -          0.. O.S                                                      0.7       O.S       1.2
O0M Service                          -         -              -          0.3      0.2         -        -          0.3       0.2      OS
Mursery                         a.       0.2         -        -- -                 -                              0.3       0.2       OS
CACS                                      0.1                 -          -                                                  0.1       0.1
irrigation 0eveloPment           -        -           -       -          1 6           1i                                   La        Li
Subtotal                      2.7      2.6        0.7       0.S        1.9      1.5                            S.3        4.6       9.9
Vehicles. Eaomunt. Machinery &
Furni tura
Extension Service               2.0       -          -              -         -               -       0.1         2.0       0.1       2.1
Rural Devt. for Women            -        -          0.4                 -        -           -        -          0.4       -         0.4
Veterinary Service              0.1       -          -                                                 -          0.1       -         0.1
0M  Service           I   3                                   -3                                      0.1         1.3       0.1       1.4
Nursery                         0.3                                                                               0.1                 0.1
CACB                            0.1       -          .        -                                                   0..
irrigation Developnent          0.1      -           -                                                   -  -  -  0.1       -
Subtotal                      2.6      -          0.4       -          1.3      -          -        0.2        4.3       0.2       4.5
Fertili2*r                          1.6      -                              -                            0.1         1.6       0.1       1.7
Technical Assiltanca &
xtenUTion Service               1.9                                                                                 9 - e.l  19  0.1  2.0
-ural Devt. for bCeen           -         -          0.9                                                         0.9        -         0.9
veterinary Service              0.2       -          -                        -              -        -          0.2        -         0.2
08M Service                      -        -          -        -          1.1      -          -        0.1         1.1       0.1       1.2
Irrigation Develooment          0.7                                                                              48 07     0         0.7
Subtotal                      2.8                 0.9       -          1.1      -          -        0.2        4.8       0.2       5.0
Reurrent tosts-                              --                  - -                             1.3     6.1         1.3       6.1       7.4
TOTAL                         Li   Li    Li   Li    Li   Li    LI   Lik   IL                                               l       iL
GRANO TOTAL                       12.3                 2.5                58                  7.9                                28.5
2044C



- 26 -
3.38      The borrower of the IDA credit would be the Government of YAR,
which, through MAF and SURDU, would utilize the credit in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement.
Agreements between the cofinancing agencies and the Government would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (para. 6.02).
E. Procument
3.39      Procurement of all items under the project would be carried out by
SURDU. Items to be financed by IDA, SDC and IFAD would be procured in
accordance with the IDA's Guidelines for Procurement of May 1985 and
Guidelines for Use of Consultants of August 1981.
3.40      Works.  The construction of major buildings for the extension and
rural development for women services and the rehabilitation of irrigation
schemes at an estimated cost of US$4.5 million (IDA financing,
US$1.6 million), would be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
in accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines. Construction of small and
scattered buildings (mainly extension, CACB and nursery facilities) and
rehabilitation of old extension centers which cannot be grouped and would each
cost less than US$200,000, would be procured by Local Competitive Bidding
(CB) procedures up to an aggregate of US$5.4 million (IDA financing, US$3.7
million) over the entire project implementation period. LCB procedures of YAR
are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the
execution of the project. However, in order to make these procedures fully
consistent with IDA's procurement guidelines, assurances were obtained from
the Government during negotiations that (a) all bidders shall be treated
equally in terms of the requirement of furnishing bid or performance security;
and (b) bids arriving after the stipulated deadline for the submission of bids
shall not be considered [para 6.01(g)].
3.41      Goods. The procurement of vehicles, equipment, furniture and
machinery at an estimated cost of US$3.0 million (IDA financing, US$1.7
million) would be made by ICB. To expedite project mobilization, vehicles,
and equipment costing about US$0.3 million of which US$80,000 are being
financed under PPF Number P387, would be procured through Shopping.
Fertilizer at an estimated cost of US$1.7 million (IDA financing,
US$1.6 million) would also be procured following Shopping procedures.
Miscellaneous goods, which cannot be grouped, and would cost less than
US$50,000 each, could be procured by LCB procedures up to an aggregate cost of
9S$1.2 million (IDA financing, US$0.6 million) over the entire project
iplementation period.
3.42     Services.  For recruitment of consultants/experts at an estimated
cost of US$4.1 million (IDA financing, US$2.1 million), IDA's guidelines for
uae of consultants would be followed.
3.43     Contract Review.  For civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of uS$200,000 or more, and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
=l100,000 or more, IDA would review and approve the text of invitation to
Z844c



- 27 -
bid, tender documuts and contracts before they are issued/awarded. IDA would
thus carry out prior review of procurement documents and awards for at least
US$10.0 million of a total cost of US$14.5 million (IDA financing, US$7.9
million) for works and goods.
3.44       The procuremnt methods to be followed for project elements to be
financed by IDA, SDC and IFAD would be as follows:
Table 3.3: PromIRent Pian
Xca       LCB     Shopping   Not Applicable  Total
-      fullS dll1         --- 
1. Civil Works                     4.5 (1.6) 5.4 (3.7)  -  -        -  -        9.9 (5.3)
2. Vtbicles. Equipmnt, Machinery a
Furniture                       3.0 (1.7) 1.2 (0.6)  0.3 (0.3)   -  -         4.5 (2.6)
3. tortilizer                      -  -       -  -       1.7 (1.6)   -  -       1.7 (1.6)
4. Consultants and Experts                               -  -        4.1 (2.1)   4.1 (2.1)
S. Foreign Trainin                 -  -       -  -       -  -        0.9 (0.7)   0.9 (.7)
. Recurrent Costs                  -  -       -  -       -  -        7.4 ( - )   7.4 ( - )
TOTAL                         7.5 (3.3)  6.6 (4.3)  2.0 (1.9)  12.4 (2.8)  28.5 (12.3)
LI Procurement of itmes financed by SOC and IFAD would be done in accordance with IOA's
guidelines.
LZ figures presanted in paranthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA Credit.
Costs include continencies.
F. __________t
3.45       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs9.8 million (US$12.3 million
equivalent) would be disbursed in seven years (Annex 1, Table 11) in
accordance with the IDA's guidelines for withdrawal of proceeds of
loans/credits as follows:
s2e4C



-28 -
Taes D4
Expenditure to be Financed
Catesory                                  AMount              %
Just million)
(a) Construction =n lbhabilitation
of Extnsion Buildings and
construction of Nursery and CACS
infrastructure                          4.6     1002
(b) Vehicles, Equdpmet and Machinery
for Extension and Veterinary
Services Irrigation Development                 100% of Foreign Expenditure and 80S
and Nursery and CACS                    2.3    of Local Expenditure
(c) Fertilisor                                1.4    1001 of Foreign Expenditure
(4) Technical Assistance                      1.8     100% of Foreign Expenditure
(e) Training                                  0.6     100% of Foreign Expenditure
(f) P?F                                       .).4    1001 of Foreign Expenditure
and 801 of Local Expenditure
(g) U.nalXoc*ted                              1.2
TOTAL                                         12.3
3.46      Special Accounts.  Provision would be made that SURDU would open and
meaitain a US$0.8 million credit Special Account for funding the items to be
financed by IDA (para. 3.37) and Swiss Francs 0.7 million Grant Special
t for funding the items to be financed from the SDC Grant. The IDA and
SDC financing would be channelled through a coomercial bank of the choice of
the Central Bank of Yemoe. The Special Accounts would be operated on term
and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.47      Full documntation is necessary for both local and foreign currency
denominated contracts above US$50,000 equivalent. For all contracts under
US$50,000 equivalent In both local and foreign currency, withdrawals from the
Credit Account will be carried out on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(80). Related contracts and supporting docmnts, such as invoices. bills of
lading, receipts, etc., would be retained by SUBDU and made available for
review by IDA staff on supervision missions. The internal control and
operational arrangent required for 5o0  operations are satisfactory.
3.48      The estimated schedule of MDA disbursements given below (detailed in
Annex 1, Table 11) is generally consisteut with the country profile.
Disbursements would begin under PPF Number P387 prior to credit effectiveness.
3044C



- 29 -
TaM  3.:  _ibueam Sced
IDA Fiscal Year
Disbursements               1987L/ 88    89     90   91       92     93       94 /2
---------- --- (US$ million) -            
Annual                       0.2   0.5   1.4    3.7  3.6    1.9   0.8        0.2
Cumulative                   0.2   0.7   2.1    5.8   9.4   11.3   12.1    12.3
Profile (M)                  1.6   5.7  17.1   47.2  76.4   91.9   98.4      100
Actua-l Profile (Years)        1     2     3      4      5      6      7       8
YA (S)                       2    12   30      51    71    85       94     100
il  Beginning January 1, 1987 - Financed under PPF Number P-387.
/2 Boding December 31, 1993.
G. Accounts nd Audits
3.49      SUIDU would maintain separat  records and accounts reflecting the
project receipts and expenditures, clearly identifying the goods and services
procured and works performed. SURDU has the experience and resources to
mintain the accouts in accordance with sound and consistently applied
accounting principles a demonstrated in the case of SUED? I and SURDP II
(Cr.. 545 and 1067-TAR).
3.50      Project accounts including those for the Special Account and the 8O
wold be audited annually In accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consiatently applied by independent auditors acceptable to IA. The auditor's
report would Include, Inter alla a statement that the funds advanced by IDA
for the Special Account were used for the purpose for which they were
provUled. Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that omly auditors acceptable to IDA would be employed for this project and
that a certified copy of audited accounts including those of the Special
Account and 601, together with the auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA
within six maths of the close of each fiscal year of YAR (para 6.01(h)l.
EL              Inuse--- "    mt
3.51      The project is not expected to generate any enviromental badatda,
altbough the use of agricultural chemicals, mainly fertiliser and pesticides,
Is expected to increase as a result of the project extesion actities.  The
slectio  of pesticides In extensio   pacages, and the dangers inhret in,
and the optim  use of, fam'chmicals would be important elemnts of the
1044@



- 30 -
training of extension staff and of the advice to be given to farmers. Also,
dealers/agents, because of their important role in educating the farmers,
would be advised of the proper storage of chemicals and disposal of chemical
containers. Moreover, pesticides would be prudently and economically used and
such pest control would be complemented with non-chemical measures including
the use of resistant crop varieties and improved cultural practices such as
proper rotations, timing of planting and irrigation which would in many cases
effectively reduce disease incidence. These activities would be closely
monitored by the extension service in coordination with research. Assurances
were obtained from the Government during negotiations that selection, handling
and use of pesticides in extension packages would be in accordance with IDA's
guidelines [para 6.01(i)].
3.52      The project is not expected to generate any major changes in the
cropping pattern or land use, beyond a likely increase in the planting of tree
crops and vegetables, which will have no hazardous effect.
L  U     i&l
3.53      There are no international water rights issues related to the
development work proposed under the project, except for the Wadi Bana study.
The riparian issue that may arise from a possible dam in Wadi Bana would be
addressed in detail in the studies proposed under the project (para 3.27).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND hANAGEMENT
A. Jnsttutianal Aun-r-emeuts
4.01      Implementing and Executing Agencies.  SURDU (para. 2.10) would be
responsible for all aspects of project implementation, including the
establishment of regional support services (agricultural extension, rural
development for women, veterinary and O&M), planning, design, procurement and
construction. It has a regular staff of about 320 and a total annual
operating budget of YRls 16.7 million (US$2.3 million equivalent). Although
it has been in operation since 1976, it still depends heavily on foreign
tecbnical assistance in managerial as well as technical activities.
Nevertheless, SURDU experience under SURDP I and II projects has helped it
develop to be among the better organized and more effective institutions in
the country. Its extension program has been quite successful in the areas
served. Its engineering capabilities have also been effective in preparation
of designs and procurement documents for buildings. However, for irrigation
works it needs specialized engineering support. Also, it lacks an O&M
service.  Under the project, technical assistance has been designed: (a) to
strengthen the institutional capacity of SURDU in engineering and agriculture
so as to handle the project's implementation tasks with minimum expatriate
help; and (b) for expatriates to provide the necessary in-service training for
a complete take-over of all project tasks by the national staff. The
incremental staff requirements (Annex 1, Table 4) of the project are expected
to be met mainly from within the region. Assurance from the Government were
obtained during negotiations that the additional staff needed for
2044C



- 31 -
implementation of the project would be appointed in a timely mannetr as per
Annex 1, Table 4 [para. 6.01(j)J.
4.02      The regional activities would be carried out by SURDU throughL its
various departments, as shown in the organization charts 3 and 4 (World Bank
Numbers 30684:1 and 30684:2). After the project is completed, the support
services would be maintained at the Governorate level with direct linkages to
WAT headquarters in Sana'a.
4.03      CLCCD, through its LCCDs in the project area, would be responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the small irrigation schemes (based on
detailed guidelines to be prepared by SURDU) that would be
constructed/rehabilitated under the project and the water supply schemes of
the project area. In doing so, LCCDs would receive, when needed, tchnical
assistance from SURDU. To ensure this, an agreement was concluded between MAF
and CLCCD on February 1, 1987, spelling out the above arrangements, which is
acceptable to IDA.
4.04      CACB would be the principal agency to provide credit to
beneficiaries of the region. In evaluating loan applications, particularly
those that involve major on-farm investments, CACB would coordinate its
credits policies and operations with the technical advice provided by SURDU.
Satisfactory operational procedures for coordination between CACB and SURDU
have already been agreed (agreement of February 1, 1987) between the two
agencies.
B. ProlectlhntemenJat==
4.05      The project would be implemented in six years, with disbursements to
be completed in year seven, as shown in Chart 2. A PPF of US$400,000, already
approved, would be used beginning January 1, 1987, to finance the finalization
of the detailed designs of the irrigation schemes as well as the extension of
contracts of five key experts originally employed under SURDP II. Physical
infrastructure, purchases of equipment, recruitment of local and expatriate
staff, and implementation of the training program would cownence in 1988.
4.06      Status of Preparation. The engineering designs of the civil works
for the buildings scheduled for construction during the first two years of
project implementation are ready. Those for the rehabilitation of the
irrigation schems would be finalized prior to project implementation.
Benefiting from the experience under SURDP I and II, where similar buildings
were constructed, SURDU engineering unit would prepare tender documents and
the final construction drawings. Several key staff are already in place, and
contracts of five key experts in agriculture and engineering currently
employed under SURDP II would be extended for six months beginning January 1,
1987 to bridge the gap between the two projects. Additional technical
assistance (paras. 3.30-3.32) would be provided under the project to assist
SURDU in project implementation including training of local staff.
2nt4C



- 32 -
4.07      Aaricultural Extension and Rural Development for Women. These
components wodld be implemented, respectively, at the headquarters level by'
SURDU's Agricultural Extension Division and its Rural Development for Women
Section, and at the Governorate level by the Agricultural Extension Sections
and their Rural Development for Women subsections. Upon project completion,
and while the soss would become part of the Tarz Section, the staff of the
Rural Development for Women Section and the training and communication staff
would continue having regional responsibilities, but operating out of the Tais
Directorate of Agriculture. The appointment of the incremental staff required
by the proposed project would commence in early 1988 (para. 4.01).
4.08      Provision for Fertiliser.  The proposed project would provide
financing for the purchase of phosphate (7,000 tons) and potash (1,400 tons).
SURDU would, beginning year 1988, procure the fertiliser and sell it, in cash.
to traders of the project area at CIF prices plus a small handling charge.
This arrangement is similar to the current practice for handling urea received
by MAF under foreign grants (para. 1.18). Proceeds of the sales would be
transferred to the Ministry of Finance. Assurances regarding these
arrangements were obtained from the Government during negotiations
[para. 6.01(k)].
4.09      Irrination Development.  Demonstration farms for improved irrigation
practices, including sprinkler and drip-irrigation, would be establiehed in
farmers' fields beginning 1988. The engineering staff at SURDU and at; the
Governorate level would design the system, supervise the construction and
assist in their operation. The extension service would lay out the fields,
and in coordination with the engineering staff, would demonstrate the
irrigation and agricultural practices. The establishment of these farm is
expected to be operative by 1989. The six irrigation schemes included In the
project have sufficient data available to proceed with the preparation of
detailed designs for rehabilitation and development, for which a firm of
consulting engineers is expected to be employed by June, 1987 (para. 3.26).
The rehabilitation work is expected to begin in early 1989.
4.10      Wadi Bana Studies.  Studies (identification of dam site, and
feasibility) aiming at constructing an irrigation dam on Wadi Bana would
commence in early 1987 (para. 3.27). A detailed report of these findings is
expected by end 1988. The full feasibility stage would follow a complete
review of the identification study and resolution of any major issue.
4.11      06M Service.  This service would be under the direct control of the
06M Division of the  Engineering Department of SURDU and the O&M Sections of
the Directorates of Agriculture at the Governorate level. During the project
implementation period, SURDU's O&M Division would be entrusted, in addition to
the over-all responsibilities of the service in the region, with the
responsibility of running the service in Taix.
4.12      Training. Training would be implemented beginning in year two of
the project (Chart 2). Selection of staff for foreign training would be done
by SURDU, which would also be responsible for the overall administering of the
training program. Local training, other than counterpart training which would
be handled directly by the experts, is expected to begin in 1989. The
Training Unit of the extension service would be responsible for the overall
?lannin, preparation of curricula and implementation of the local training



- 33 -
program (para. 3.34). Assurances were obtained from the Government dl ring
negotiations that a detailed training program, including the curricula, would
be submitted to IDA no later than April 1, 1988 (para. 6.01(1)].
C. MoItoriM and Evaluation
4.13      Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would continue to be performed by
the M15 Unit established under SURDP II (Cr. 1067-YAR), under the direct
control of the SURDU manager, and assisted by staff of the various services
and by two M&E officers, one in each Governorate. The latter would be
appointed in project year two. Upon completion of the project, the overall
M&E responsibilities would be transferred to the Directorate of Agriculture at
the Governorate level.
4.14      The functions of the M&E Unit would include monitoring: (a) in
physical and financial terms of project inputs (such as staff recruitment,
training and institutional development, procurement, implementation of civii
works and the activities of the various agricultural services established
under the project) against the annual work programs; (b) the impact of the
extension service including that of the rural development for women, in terms
of adoption of specific recommendations by farmers; and (c) the status of
surface and groundwater resources. For project inputs monitoring, each
Governorate would submit periodical reports to the respective divisions at the
SURDU headquarters. Such reports would indicate both financial and physical
progress compared against annual plan targets. For project output monitoring,
each Governorate would report annually, on a set of indicators, measuring
progress towardr specific objectives. Adoption rate and yield surveys
developed by the Extension Division would be undertaken annually at the
Governorate level to assess the impact of the technological packages
disseminated under the project, and thus, the impact of the project on the
farming community. The field supervisors at the Governorate level, with the
assistance of the SMSs at both the Governorate and the headquarters levels,
would collate and summarixe the information, and prepare semiannual progress
reports which would highlight achievements, problems and recoimendations for
consideration by the Extension Division. They would also maintain data
obtained over time on adoption rate and yield surveys as the basis for
evaluating the benefits derived by farmers from the technological packages.
Also, the effectiveness of the operation of an agricultural extension service
for women, with an independent entity, would be annually evaluated. An
assurance in that regard was obtained during negotiations (para 6.01 (m)).
4.15      The M&E system that would be established under the project would
comprise baseline data which would include stratification of land holders and
fasm units by farming system, and detailed summary of resources, potential and
constraints. These data would be utilixed by the extension service in
devising packages suitable to farmers. Rainfall would also be recorded and
surface water evaluated on a regional basis. Assurances were obtained from
the Government during negotiations that a system of monitoring and evaluation
would be established by April 1, 1988 [para. 6.01(n)].
D. Frog1n
4.16      SURDU would prepare quarterly progress reports in accordance with a
format satisfactory to IDA, and submit them to IDA within two months following
S044C



X-34-
the report period. The reports would be comprehensive, covering all aspects
of project implementation. The Governmeut would prepare a Project Completion
Report (PCR) on the lines su4gested by IDA, and submit it to IDA no later than
six months after the credit closing date. Necessary assurances in this regard
were obtained from the Government at negotiations [para. 6.01(o)].
L  La&ds for  iIect Faclie
4.17      The Government owns enough lad in the project area for the
construction of extension buildings and establishment of tree nurseries, and
would allocate the same to the project through the necessary notification.
The land required for the irrigation improvement works, not belonging to the
Government, if any, would be *cquited by the Government :or the project well
ahead of the time of construction. The Government would submit to IDA proof
of having acquired all needed,lands at the time of submission of the tender
documnts for respective works for IDA's approval. Assurances to this effect
were be obtained from the Government at negotiations [para. 6.01(p)].
v. PROJECT BENEEESl. J U  flICATION AND RSKCS
A. Produotka
5.01      The project would prdmQte agricultural development through the
establishment and strengthintng of agritultural support services; the
rehabilitation of small irrigation sc4emes; and the improvement of existing
pump-irrigation schemes.
5.02      Agricultural development promoted through the extension and
veterinary services would be by means of introduction of impraved technology
with: (i) existing livestock, cropping patterns and cropping intensities on
rainfed and irrigated farms (Far! Models 1 and 2); (ii3 better   g emt of
water for irrigation through fficient diversion, conveyance, distribution and
application with consequent changes in cropping patterns and intensity (Farm
Models 3 and 4); and (iii) investments for establishment of fruit and coffee
tree crops (Farm Models 5 and 6)WI; and (iv) the service would introduce
primary health and nutrition education to the women of the area.
5.03     As a result of the proposed project, and through project year six,
some 40,000 farm units with around 70,000 ha, asuisted by SURDP I and II,
would receive continuing and intensified service, and an additional 26,000.
farm units in both new and existing areas would be assisted by the regional
extension service. The veteriMary service is expected to annually provide
animal health tre4tment to 200,000 ruminant animals, tbereby improving their
health and proCkucttvity.  Als"- about 1,100 rural womex would be assisted in
primary health/nutrition techniqties that would improve the standard of living
of them and their fauilies. The extension service l designed to eventually
reach about 120,000 farm units, and the program of r4ral development for women
to reach abut 10,000 famiLies.
LI Working Document 3.1 of Project File.
2044C



- 35 -
5.04      As a result of improved techniques and improved irrigation water
availability, average crop yields would increase as follows:
TaMe 5.1: Present and Future Crop Yild
Present        Future
Without    With
Crops                            Proiect   Proiect    Incremental
-     (tons/ha)
I. Rainfed
Sorghum, low                    0.8      1.0      1.2              20
Sorghum, high                   1.3      1.6      2.0              25
Wheat, high                     1.0      1.2      1.5              25
Maize, low                      0.8      1.0      1.3              30
Maize, high                     1.0      1.3      1.6              23
Legumes                         0.8      0.8      0.9              12
Potatoes                        8.0     10.0    13.0               30
II. Irritated
Wheat                           1.5      1.8      2.3              28
Maize                           1.6      2.0      2.7              35
Legumes                         1.1      1.3      1.5              15
Potatoes                       11.0     13.0    17.0               31
Vegetables/a                   10.0     13.0    17.0               31
Coffee                          0.7      0.8      141              38
FruitL-                                  -       15.0               _
tl  Tomato is taken as a representative crop.
/2  Citrus is taken as a representative crop of fruit tree establishment.
2044C



- 36 -
5.05     Expected yield increases are based on field experience under SURDP I
and II and on research results of the ARA, which have demonstrated the
potential for yield increase in major crops grown and prospects for new crops,
particularly fruits and vegetables (para 2.14). Recommendations from ARA have
been introduced to a large number of farmers in the area through field
demonstrations. Farmers in the project area have proved themselves ready to
adopt, at least partially, these new practices.
5.06     Increases in yield, together with changes in cropping areas and
intensity, are expected to give the following increases in production level:
Table 5.2: Future Crop Productin
Production
Crops              Without             With           Incremental
Project            Proiect
---- ('000 tons)                    (M)
Sorghum                      77                 95                23
Wheat                        35                 44                26
Maize                        30                 40                33
Legumes                       8                  9                1t
Potatoes                     73                 95                30
Vegetables                   22                 31                41
Stover                      325                406                25
Straw                        52                 65                25
Fruit /1                      -                 28               100
Coffee A1                                      0.5               100
/1  Areas under the project where fruit trees and coffee are expected to be
established.
5.07          Markets.  The demand for food, especially fruits and vegetables
has been growing substantially, largely because of high population growth rate
and increase in disposable income from overseas workers' remittances. YAR
will continue to import large quantities of food items. The projected
production of cereals and vegetables would therefore contribute to satisfying
the growing demand for food for home consumption and feed for animals. The
production of fruits in particular would help to partially replace imports
banned in 1984.
5.08     Although farming in YAP is mainly subsistence oriented, some farmers
are producing for the domestic market within and outside the Southern Region.
Traditional markets are available in the project area, and no major problems
are expected in marketing surplus production through existing channels.
5.09     Prices.  Prices for inputs and outputs used in the farm models are
average farm-gate prices. Adjustments have been made for transport cost
between farms and the markets (souks). The prices of domestically produced
agricultural commodities, which are free of Government control, are determined
on the basis of free interplay of demand and ;upply, except for fruits and
vegetables and poultry imports which have bet banned mainly due to foreign
2044C



- 37 -
exchange constraints in the country. These restrictions have protected the
market price for domestically produced agricultural outputs. The high
domestic prices are also due to the rapidly increasing costs of marketing,
transport and production. Prices of cereals are high, due partly to consumer
preference for locally produced agricultural products. For these reasons,
domestic prices are significantly higher than world market prices (Annex 1,
Table 12).
B. Financia Reslts
5.10     Six models illustrate the project impact on the income of
participating farm owners and sharecroppers, farm incomes and labor reward
(Annex 1, Table 13), representing different types of development in the area.
For each category of Farm Models 1 to 4, there are two types (a) representing
Taiz (400-500 mm rainfall) and (b) representing Ibb (500 mm and above rainfall
areas).  Farm Model 1 represents 1.5 ha typical rainfed farms; Farm Model 2
represents 1.5 ha farms served with pump-irrigation without any additional
on-farm investment; Farm Model 3 represents 1.0 ha farms falling within the
command areas of irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated by the project; Model
4 represents 1.0 ha farm in where the effect of on-farm investments to improve
the efficiency of water use, including installation of minisprinklers (Farm
Model 4c), would be introduced; and MOdels 5 and 6 illustrate the costs and
benefits of establishing 1.0 ha each of fruit tree (citrus) and coffee orchard
development, respectively. Financial returns of these models are attractive,
ranging from YRls 4,300 for Farm Model la to over YRls 100,000 for Farm Model
4c.<I
5.11     Most production units in the project area are owneroccupied.  The
financial analysis has been carried out fo:c all the farms (including those
with fruit tree plantations) assuming owner-occupied holdings, except for
models 4a and 4b, where sharecropping is assumed. In the latter case, the
prevailing arrangements are such that the owner is responsible for the
investment and all operation and maintenance costs related to water, while the
sharecroppers provide the labor and finance all other production costs. Net
income, after taxes, is shared equally between the owner and the sharecroppers.
5.12     As a result of crop intensification and application of improved
techniques, the annual demand for labor will increase. Most of the labor
requirements are expected to be met from the farm family. In some cases,
however, seasonal peak labor demand will exceed available family labor and
hiring will be necessary. For land preparation and levelling, draft animals
will generally be used; some farmers are expected to hire tractors.
5.13     Farm Incomes. The farm budgets indicate a substantial increase in
return per hectare and reward per family work day. Net returns in every
category of farm model are attractive; even with a significant reduction in
crop prices or increase in cost of production, farm owners and sharecroppers
have satisfactory increases in family income and labor reward. Such increased
income is expected to generate sufficient interest in area farmers to adopt
improved practices and farm investment. Net incomes derived by sharecroppers
are generally supplemented by a substantial off-farm income (e.g. high wages
obtained in the services or construction) and remittances from family members
/I Working Document B.1 of Project File.



- 38 -
working abroad. The best net returns are for vegetables and fruits. Those
farmers who invest in fruit tree and coffee plantations would generate a net
income per hectare estimated at YRls 100,000 and YRis 32,000, respectively.
5.14     The net farm income and daily labor reward for the different farm
models are summarized below:
Table 5.3: Farmncomes
ULikum~ ~              lb     3La -  t)l_ I  L  3JL    IL    4a    IL L3  19    XL      6
Without Pro*jct      3.4    5.2   16.9   11.0    1.9    5.3   18.9   12.1   21.1   18.9  18.9
with Project         4.3   7.1   25.9   16.9   31.7   15.4   42.3 * 21.4   111.1   97.5  32.1
abar LXard 4(YR1/ma day)
Without Project       68    93    177    98    69    98    177    74    141    177   98
With Project          72    123    216    137    233    135   234    115     SOS    813   236
L Sefore taxes.
a  Return to family labor per working day.
LI Farm owner's net incom increases from YRls 6.970 to Yrls 12.440; sharecroppers tncomw also increases from
--ls 5.200 to Ygls 9.040. This represents an increase in return per workday from YRls 41 to YRIS 67
C. Taxes and Cost
5.15     Taxes.  The project is expected to generate a considerable increase
in Government revenues through the Zakat /' and cooperation tax. Zakat is
set at 102 of the gross value of production from rainfed and spate irrigated
areas; and at 5S from pump-irrigated areas, and in addition, a cooperation tax
is collected at 2.51. Incremental annual Zakat and cooperation taxes at full
development (and their present value over 30 years) resulting from the
incremental production due to the project are detailed in Annex 1, Table 14
and summarized as follows:
Table 5.4: bIremwental Taxes
Cooperation
Zakat /1        Tax           Total /    Present Value  /2
(Yrls million)
Rain/Spate Irrigated    5.9             1.5             7.4             66.7
Pump-Irrigated          17.2           8.5             25.7 /1         111.0
Total                23.1          10.0            33.1             177.7
/ Annual at full development.
/2 Over a 30 year period at 12% discount rate.
/1 Religious tithe.
2044C



- 39 -
5.16     Cost Recovery.  The six irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated under
the project are small, covering in all, an area of -nly about 350 ha, and
scattered throughout the project area of about 200,000 ha. Therefore, it
would be costly and administratively very difficult to make cost recovery
arrangements separately for these operations which are in the nature of
rehabilitation rather than new investments. However, cost would be recovered
through the existing agricultural production taxes (para 5.15) which are based
on the beneficiaries' gross value of production and hence expected to increase
in amount, following the rehabilitation of the schemes and the resulting
incremental output. It is estimated that annual incremental taxes generated
by 1997, i.e. at full development, would be sufficient to recover the annual
O&M cost and the full capital cost, without interest, in 17 years, even if
only 60 percent of the amount due from the beneficiaries is collected.
5.17     The rent recovery indices (Annex 1, Table 15) indicate that about 601
of the net income would be left with the beneficiaries after taxes, and that
they would have adequate incentives to participate in the proposed development.
5.18     Impact on Government Budget.  The project would require by year six
that the Government incur an expenditure in 1986 prices of about YRls 12.4
Million (US$1.7 million) in annual recurrent costs, out of which about YRls
6.8 million (54S) would be for incremental staff salaries and allowances and
local training, and YRls 5.6 million for operating and maintenance
expenditures. These would add to the present recurrent expenditures of SURDU
of about YRls 16.7 million per year (US$2.3 million equivalent). On the other
hand, the project would generate annually Government revenues of about YRls
33.0 million at full development through taxes on agricultural production.
D. BeneMfi  and eneiars
5.19    The main project benefits would result from: (a) the introduction of
improved technology (improved seed, better land preparation and plant density,
better use of manure, fertilizer and pest control, and better health measures
for livestock); (b) public sector investments to increase the quantity of
water available for irrigation; (c) on-farm investments to improve the
efficiency of irrigation water use; and (d) investments for establishment of
fruit and coffee plantations; and (e) investments for improving agricultural
and non-agricultural activities for the rural development for women.
5.20     Economic and Social Benefits.  The quantifiable economic benefits of
the project would derive from the incremental production of sorghum, wheat,
maize, pulses, potatoes, vegetables, fruit and coffee (Table 5.2).  Net value
of production, at 1986 economic prices, is expected to increase by 801 from
YRls 260 million (US$ 35.9 million) in the "without project" situation to
YRis 470 million (US$ 64.8 million) "with project " at full development.
Incremental crop production resulting from the project would lead to a
reduction in the imports$ and thus, to a saving in foreign exchange. As a
result of the rural development for women program, beneficiaries in the
project area are also expected to benefit from improved health and nutrition
standards, and reduction in infant and child mortality rates. Also, meat and
milk production is expected to increase.
2044C



- 40 -
5.21     Beneficiaries.  The project is expected to benefit some 120,000 farm
families or 672,000 people, of wbom about 75% (Farm Model 1) have agriculture
per capita income lower than the poverty line of US$178 equivalent (para 5.14
and Table 5.3). These include an estimated 3,225 farm families on 3,575 ha
who would benefit from the additional water available for irrigation resulting
from the irrigation infrastructure works carried out under the project and
ou-farm investments for improved efficiency of irrigation water use.  The
rural development for women activities are expected to benefit about 10,000
households representing about 81 of the farm population. The project is also
expected to provide more opportunity for temporary employment of landless
people as the seasonal peak labor demand will continue to exceed, in some
cases, the available family labor. The project would also benefit
sharecroppers engaged in farming on the larger irrigated farms.
5.22     Economic Prices.  The economic farm-gate prices for traded goods
(cereals, pulses, fruits, potatoes and fertilizers) are import parity prices
derived from Bank's commodity price projections for 1990-1995, expressed in
1986 constant dollars, with appropriate adjustments for handling, marketing
and transportation costs. In the case of cereals, the strong preference of
the Yemenis for domestically produced goods has not been taken into account in
determining the economic prices. Vegetables, draft animals, straw and stover
are treated as non-traded goods and the economic prices were derived by
applying the Standard Conversion Factor (estimated at 0.80) to the financial
prices. The shadow wage rate for hired labor was assumed at half its market
rate of YRls 60 per man-day (i.e., YRls 30). As regards pump irrigation water
a conversion factor of 0.9 has been used. Financial and economic prices used
are given in Annex 1, Table 12.
E. Eoonomle Rate of Return
5.23     An analysis has been carried out for the project to determine the
economic viability of the irrigation development component which includes
irrigation schemes for rehabilitation and on-farm investments. Also, a
separate analysis ha been done for just the irrigation schemes proposed for
rehabilitation (models 3a and 3b).
5.24     Quantifiable benefits used in the economic analyses were derived from
the incremental production of cereals and their by-products, potatoes,
vegetables, fruits and coffee from 3,225 farms on 3,575 ha. Economic costs
include investment and O&M cost of the proposed irrigation schemes, on-farm
investments and production costs, and various project costs, -tucluding
extension, 0&M, and rural development for women services, apportioned on the
basis of area benefited. The costs of the Wadi Bana study, as well as the
veterinary services, for which benefits have not been quantified, have not
been taken into account. Costs of tree nurseries have been excluded as
revenues from sales of seedlings are projected to cover both investment and
operating costs. Replacement of investments, smch as vehicles, machinery and
equipment, has been included in the analysis; no residual value has been taken
into account. The technical parameters underlining the rate of retrxn
calculations are given in Annex 4.
5.25     On the basis of the paramete:s (Annex 4) and the cost and benefit
streams outlined in Annex 1, Table 16, the economic rate of return (ERR) of
2044C



- 41 -
the project is estimated at 161. The net present value (NPV) for an assumed
opportunity cost of capital of 122 amounts to YRls 54 million. Sensi'ivity
test results show that the project is relatively insensitive to changes in
costs and benefits. With a 201 increase in costs, or decrease in benefits,
the EUR would be 141 and 131, respectively, and 131 with a 2 year lag in
implementation. The results of the switching value analysis indicate the ERR
would remain above 12S despite large increases in costs (371) or decrease in
benefits (27X).
5.26     Rehabilitation of Irrisation Schemes.  The economic viability of the
proposed schemes for rehabilitation (Al Amirah in Tais area, and Lahej and
four others in Ibb Yarim area) has also been tested based on: (a) the
investment and 0&M costs of rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure,
and (b) the incremental benefit and cost of production on 350 ha. The ERR is
estimated to be about 17% (Annex 1, Table 17). The NPV at the estimated
opportunity cost of capital of 12% is about YRls 6.0 million.
5.27     A sensitivity analysis was also carried out to show the effect of
changes in benefits and costs on the ERR. The results (Annex 1, Table 17)
indicate that the project is sensitive to changes in costs and benefits. With
a 201 increase in costs or decrease in benefits, the ZRR would be,121 and 11X,
respectively, and 111 with a 2-year delay in implementation. Switching values
indicate that the ERR would remain above 121 if the rehabilitation cost
increased by 201, or, in financial terms-1 if the investment cost per ha were
about YRls 57,000 (US$7,880).
F.    jjig  id
5.28     There are no unusual risks associated with the project, and those
normally associated with the project benefits, costs, development period and
implementation delays have been tested in the sensitivity analyses. One risk
which could affect project viability, and which other IDA-assisted projects in
YAR have faced in recent years, is that of an inadequate local budgetary
support resulting in delays in construction and staffing schedules. This risk
is a real one in the present economic climate of the country, and is likely to
continue until the impact of the oil discovery is felt.
5.29     To minimize this risk, assurances were obtained during negotiations,
that the required budget for the project to oover Government portion of the
expenditure will be provided on time (para. 3.36); assurances were also
obtained that agricultural credit would be provided in sufficient amounts to
eligible project area farmers to ensure adoption of the improved practices by
the farmers (para. 3.35). The establishment of a Special Account (para. 3.46)
to avoid the need for the Government to advance funds to pay contractors'
bills or salaries of expatriate staff while awaiting reimbursement of IDA's
share should help facilitate prompt payment to contractors and experts.



- 42 -
VL AGUEEMENTS REACHED ANDR ECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government of
YAR to the effect that:
(a) animal production staff of the Veterinary Service would be
transferred to the Extension Service by end December 1987 (para.
3.17);
(b) Government would: (a) provide timely advance information to the
private sector on the timing and quantities of fertilizer available
under foreign grants, and (b) simplify the procedures for granting of
import licenses for fertilizer (para. 3.22);
(c) following the identification stage, the Government would provide IDA
with the findings of the first stage of the study relating to the
sites for the construction of an irrigation dam in Wadi Dana and
obtain IDA agreement before proceeding with the feasibility study
under the project to ensure that riparian issues, if any, would be
considered (para. 3.27);
(d) consultants and experts would be appointed in accordance with
appointment schedule as per Annex 1, Table 9 (para. 3.32);
(e) Government would provide CACB with necessary resources to meet the
additional credit needs of the project (para. 3.35);
(f) sufficient funds would be made available annually to meet the
incremental annual recurrent cost of the regional services and the
O&N of the irrigation schemes provided under the project (paras. 3.36
and 4.03);
(g) in following the LCB procurement procedures for goods to be purchased
out of IDA credit, the Government would ensure (a) that all bidders
shall be treated equally in terms of the requirements of furnishing
bid or performance security; and (b) bids arriving after the
stipulated deadline for the submission of bids shall not be
considered (para. 3.40);
(h) only those auditors acceptable to IDA would be employed for the audit
of project accounts including those for the Special Account and SOE
and that a certified copy of audited accounts, together with the
auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of each fiscal year of YAR (para. 3.50);
(i) selection, handling and use of pesticides in the extension packages
would be in accordance with IDA's guidelines (para. 3.51);
(j) the additional staff needed for implementation of the p-oject would
be appointed in a timely manner a per Annex 1, Table 4 (para. 4.01);
3044C



- 43 -
(k) SURDU would procur'i the fertilizer and sell it to traders of the
project area and transfer sales proceeds to the Ministry of Finance
(para. 4.08);
(1) SURDU would prepare and submit to IDA, a detailed training program
including curricula by April 1, 1988 (para. 4.12);
(m) SURDU would annually evaluate the effectiveness of the operation of
the agricultural extension service for women, as an independent
entity (para. 4.14);
(n) a monitoring and evaluation system would be established by April 1.
1988 (para. 4.15);
(o) SURDU would prepare quarterly progress reports satisfactory to IDA,
and submit tbem to IDA within two months following the report period,
and the Government would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR)
for submission to IDA no later than six months after the credit
closing date (para 4.16);
(p) SURDU would submit to IDA proof of having acquired all needed lands
at the time of submission of the tender documents for the
construction of respective works (para. 4.17).
6.02     The condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be the
compliance with conditions precedent to effectiveness of cofinancing
agreements by the Government with other agencies to fill the financing gap
(para. 3.38).
6.03     On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDRs9.8 million (US$12.3 million equivalent) on
standard terms. The borrower would be the Government of the Yemen Arab
Republic.
2044C



- 44 -
ANNEX X.
Table I
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SU ERN REGIONLAL AGRICURAL DVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aaicultural Sector Develooent - KO  Indicators
1960-70     1970-81     1982-84
Agriculture Annual grovth rate (M)                -          3.7          1.0
Agriculture a  S of GDP (YIUs million) /I 12    52            34           25
1979   1980    1981    1982    1983
Food and Live AMim   IMports (Us$ million)      290     420     636      452     500
Agricultural Exports (US$ million)               -      2.7     2.0      1.0     1.0
Food Sorts as 2 of CDP                           16      17      21       13      17
Li At current factor cost.
a bExluding value added from get.
Sowrce:  CPO Statistical Yearbook, 1984 and MAF's Agricultural Statistics, 1985.



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Agricultural Production in YAR
(1979 - 1985)
Year
1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
- -  -----('000 tons)   ------------------------
Cro2s
Wheat               63         65        70         67         34         37        63
Sorghum/Millet    632         636       635        581        268       278        281
Barley              45         48        54         53         30        28         31
Maize               48         49        53         59         30        40         43
Sesame               6          6         5          5          4          3
Pulses/Dry          80        84         80         75        40         38         44
Vegetables         254        261       291        305        326       346        370
Tomatoes                                 78         92        101       104        112
Potato             127        131       138        150        164       195        196
Grapes              55         56        64         68         72        90         81
Dates                6          6         6          6          6        13         13
Other Fruits        76         77        81         85         85        88         92
Alfalfa             43         44        45         49         49        49         49
Coffee               3.5        3.6       3.6        3.3        3.0       3.2       NA '
Cotton               2.8        5.0       5.0        6.5        6.5       3.7       NA't
Tobacco              7.0        7.0       6.3        6.7        5.7       4.3       NA
Livestock
Red Meat            20         20        20         21         22        22         23
Poultry             16         16        17         17         18        19         19
Fish                15         16        17         17         17        18         21
Milk                85         90        95         95         97        99        105
Eggs (Million)    111         117       122        122        128       178        214
/A  NA * Not Available.
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture & Fisheries, Agricultural Statistics 1984, and CPO
Statistical Yearbooks, 1984 and 1985.



YDNEA ARAB KPUSBLIC
SOUERM RIEGIONAL AGRSCULITURAL DEVELOPMENT PR(LECT
Cera Areas and CrDeoin Pattern
Teal   LI                        Ibb    LI                         Total  LI    Grand
Rainfed   Irricated   Total      Rainfed   Irrigated   Total       Rainfed   Irricated      Total
Arei  !000 ha)                             77          25       102           70         23        93         147         48          195
Peri ent Crops                           -           6         6            -          S         S           -         11           11
Annual Crops                           '77           19        96           70         18        88         147         37          184
Croppine Pattern'2
Sorghua/Millet                           75          50        70           SS        40         S2          66         4S           61
Wheat/Barley                              -           -         -           25         75        35          12          36          17
Maite                                    20          70        30           10         25        13          1S         48           22
Pulses                                    5          10         6            7         15         9           6         13            7
Potatoes                                  -          20         4            3        4S         12           1         32            8
Vegetables                                -          30         6            -          -         -           -          1S           3
Total                                 100         180       116          100       200        121         100        189          110
LI Partially or totally irrigated.                                                                                                                       JX
LI  Percentage of areas cropped annually.                                                                                                                cb
2091C
EN



satuIHl"lE  0AL JG*Cti"L   OvLOPHErs  Pqan=
lngrasental Praict National Staff
InCrer ntal fequrrntsfxfoected Year of Asoelnt.mnt
Position                                   Total      1987 1I   1988    1989    1990    19        1992    1993 12
Monitoring and Evaluation Officers                   2         -          2        -
Director Agriculture Department. SRADU               I         -          1       -        -       -       -       -
Extenslon Service
Manage mnt and Senior SMSs                        7          -          3       4        -       -       -
Supervisors and Olock Centers SSs I3            12          -          3       3        3       2       1       -
Extension Agents                                 20          -          4       4        4       4       4       -
Clerks and Drivers                                to         -          3       5        2       -       -       -
Rural Development for Women Program
Managament and SYtS                                3         -          1       2        -       -       -       -
Supervisors                *                      2          -          1        I       -       -       -       -
Agriculture Agents                                13         -          -       3                5 S     2       -
Nome Economies Aents                              5          -          -       2        2       1       -       -
Clerks and Drivers                                16         -          4        1       4       3       4       -
Veterinary Service
Veterinarians                                     2          -          I        1       -       -       -       -
Veterinary Assistants                             9          -          3       2        4       -       -       -
Nursery Development
Head tYarim)                                       I         -          1       -        -       -       -       -
Technicians                                       8          -          2       4        2       -       -       -
Skilled Workers A Guards                          8          -          2       4        2       -       -       -
Operation and Maintenane
Engineering staff                                   2          -          2       -        -       -       -       -
Civil Engineer                                     1         -          1
Mechanical Engineer                                I         -          I       -        -       -       -
"Ydrologist                                        I         -          1       -        -       -       -       -
Mehanics                                          4          1          1       2        -       -       -       -
Technicians                                       2          -          2       -        -       -       -       -
Draftsm                                            1         1          -       -        -       -       -
Foreman                                           2          1          1       -        -       -       -       -
Drives/Machine Operator                          12          2          2       2        2       4
£12egins July I
a3  Efts June 38.
a   five of eliht Supervisors (Blotk te*ters heads) are uWeradings of existing Wersonnel.
El 
4 ~ ~   ~            



ANNEX I
Table 5
Y£MEN ARAB REPUBLI; -
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL. D"V!LOPMK   PROJ=(
Vhticles. Heavy Eauinment and Machinerv
Agricultural   Rural Development    Operation &
£xtension        for Women           Maintenance         Veterl.sarv       CAC8-
Vehicles
4 WD Long Wteel Base                 3                -                   4                  -                6
4'i  Short Wheel Base               14                1                   6                  3                -
4 ID M1ini Wheel Base               13               14                   4                  1
Movie Mobile Units                   2                1                   -                  _
Pit*-ups                            13                -                   4
Truck G; 'on)                        1                - 
Buses                               .3                -                   - .--                      
Motorcycles                        124                    -                                 16
Heav Eaui muent and Machi n;r  L     '    r..
Potato Ridgers                      11                -,
Potato Lifters.-                    22
Sprayers                      -- l l                                                         --   - - ,1--
Threshing Hachines                  ll               t -     _      <2      . -     ...              , -  -   -                               '
Seeders                              5                                                    : -  r
,lrwesters                           s -              -               -:,                  ,1 ,-  A.  -  - .
'  GistdersZ--                                              
lr 'W .l La4ers with Back hoe,        -                -          -   -   2-'                                  _
Traitors-      -                                                          4                                   -
,Ot., 'T#uc;S--' -                                                     -  \ 4   '
/  *tchefs                      - -              ~ ~-     - --       2                   -               --
atle'. -v. 4
Mobll# Wor shop       -                               -                   1                                 - - -
Li Lght Eq tia.ent is-listed i1 Project File.                                                                    - -.          K 
, _  , ,                                         , X  g   , ,,,  _ . ,       ;~ ~~~~~~~~If



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer - Estimates of Annual Supply/Potential Use in the Proiect Area
Present                     With Proiect
Type of Fertilizer         1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
________-    _______    ----- '000 tons-    
Nigtogenous (Urea)
Potential Use              13.0    13.1    13.3    13.8    14.5    15.2    15.9    16.5
Supply /I                  10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Shortage (Total)            3.0     3.1      3.3     3.8     4.5      5.2     5.9      6.5
Shortage (Incremental)      3.0     0.1      0.2     0.5     0.7      0.7     0.7      0.6
Phosphatic (TSP)
Potential Use               1.0     1.1      1.6     2.4      3.6     4.9     6.0      7.0
supply ;2                   0.0     0 0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Shortage (Total)            1.0     1.1      1.6     2.4      3.6     4.9     6.0      7.0
To be Financed by Project  -        -        1.6     1.8      1.8     1.8      -       -
Potash
Potential Use               0.2     0.2      0.3     0.5     0.7      1.0      1.2     1.4
supply /2                   0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Shortage (Total)            0.2     0.2      0.3     0.5     0.7      1.0      1.2     1.4
To be Financed by Project  -        -        0.3     0.4     0.4      0.3      -       -
/l  The present supply estimates are based on mission's discussions with
SURDU, project area farmers and traders.  The potential use estimates with-project
are based on expected adoption of technology by farmers as a result of project
extension activities.
/2  Assumes that current supply would remain constant.



. ~~~YfBlE ARMs JEMO F"u N
Smmtfl1     REGIONAL ARUURAL DVELMN  PROXICT
Rafoose to lattinizeu't
Yield (tons/ha)     Yield tons/ha    Yieti Increase  Cost/Benefit
Without Fertili2er With Fertilizer         (X1           Ratio
Cronlferti ii ir
MHeat (Irrigated)
Nitrogen (80 kg N/ha)                                         2.2                 2.5             14            .32
Nitrogen (80 kg N/fha) + Phosphorous (40 kg Pao$/ha)          2.2,                2.8             27            .25
Wheat (Rainfed)
Nitrogen (40 kg N/ha)                                         1.1                  1.3            18             .20
Nitrogen (40 kg N/ha)+ Phosphorous (40 kg P2Os/ha)            1.1                  1.4            27            .42
Potateas (Irrigated)
Nitrogen (100 kg N/ha) + Phosphorous (100 kg Pao /ha)        20.4               24.6              21            .07
Nitrogen (100 kg N/ha) + Phosphorous (100 kg Pi0:/ha)
* Potassium (60 kg k20/ha)                                 20.4               28.3              39            .02
Maize (Irrigated)
Nitrogen (60 kg N/ha) + Phosphorous (40 kg P20c/ha)           4.0                4.9              23            .11
Tao_toes
Nitrogen (100 kg N/ha) + Phosphorous (100 kg P20sha)        27.2               30.4              12            .05
Nitrosen (100 kg N/ha) + Phosphorous (100 kg P20s/ha)
+ Potassium (100 kg kaO/ha)                                27.2               42.3              S6            .03
LI Results of research conducted by ARA  1981-1984.
^1I%



- 51 -
table 8
YOME an  REgLI lT
SjTlIgN RtiQONAL *cRIC  JR L OVELOPIINT Me=J C
Catchment   Reservoir   Height of   Reservoir   Irrig.
Namr  of    Cover-                         Area        Area       Raising       Volume       Area
Dan       norate      tocation             (Km)      (he)           (m)        V'OMO3)    (ha)
1. Lahetj          Ebb    Close to Tat:           6.3         9.9          3.0          240         SO
(sm ll road)
2. YehJel          Ebb    4.7 km frr  Rihab       6.0         3.8          3.0           120        25
3. Seg$ n          Ibb    5.0 km from Rihab       6.0         4.0          3.0           120        25
4. Rabat-Al-Shah  Tbb    25 km NW of Yarim    20.0            9.0          3.0           350        70
5. Hiram           Tbb    Close to Tat2           6.0         6.5          2.75          17S        30
(sa ll road)
6. Al-Amirah       Tai:   5 km North of Wata    65.8         18.0          2.0         2.000       150
Total



-52 -                                                       ANNEX I
Table 9
Yrt£H hhfl MftIILIC
Technical Asti*nc   rh fan erethtg, traitn g
A.  Tednica LAe stane (total cost * US4.1 million)
lamertice                                yumber        Staff -YOar              Oatf Annointmnt
Agriculture Sentor Advisor                  1              3-1/2                January 1. I"9  LI
Etensien -laxte
1xtesion Planning                       a              s-a/i                January I. 1987 a
Plart Froteetton                        1              3-1/2                January 1. 198' a
trrigation AgranMy                      a              2                    July 1. 1988
Extension Training                      1              3                    Oembeer a. 198
c   ication                             a              2                    July l  19. 9
Menitoring and Evaluati0n               1              3                    O cember 1. 1987
Hortieulturw  (Associate Expert)        1              3                    July 1. 1988
Short tenm Consultants                  -1-1/2                              Oec  eer 1. 1987
subtOtal                                         25
Rura l  eveldafit far Won
Ucon O.evloP Int                        a                                   Oecember I  1987
wutrition/MH   Economics                1              3                    March  . 1988
wo_    Development (Associate Expert)  I               3                    March 1. 1988
Short term Consultants                                 I                    OeceZer 1. 1987
(ct  nicatiOn and base line survey)
subtotal                                         11
Veterinary service - Vetertnarian          1                                   January 1. 1988
SubtOtal                                           2-1/2
£ou.tneer1 za" - Senior Advisor           1              3-1/2                January 1.  987 La
Civil  ngineer                         1              3                    January 1. 1988
Assc. Civil Engineer                    1              3                    January  . 1988
Ottice Engineer                         1              4-1/2                January 1 I1987 4a
Assoc, Mdanical Engineer                I              L                    July 1. 1988
subtotal                                          15
cnsultatS Phasf I                                           M
Dam Engtteer/Te   Leader                I              9                    June 1, 1987
trrigation Engineer                     1              4                    June 1. 1987
HydrologiSt                             1              2                    June 1. 1987
feologitt/Ce0tec. Engineer              1              3                    June 1, 198
Structural Designer                     1              3                    June 1. 1987
(can Aist                               I              I                    June 1. 1987
Surveyor                                i              L                    June 1. 198,
Subbotal                                         25 (2 1/f2 Years)
DOe Enginr rTeam Leadeor                1             9                     January 1l  1990
Irrigation Engineer                    1              6                     January 1  190
Myreqist                                1              3                    January 1. 199
CIlogstotabh Engineer                   1             4                     January l, 1990
St ctl Design En1ineer                  1             4                     January 1, 1990
Economist                              1               1                    January 1. 19O
Surv*y                                 I              L                     January 1. 1990
50otal                                          30 (2-1/2 Years)
13W.                                            11-1/12
8. fcrnt[   trinin  (Total cost * US$O.9 million)
Ixnerttse                               Uunev         Staff -Yara              &ate of A0gointjlint_
qricultu. Eaternsion
tgStn  lanning                         2              4                     October 1. 1988
uortialut                              1              2                     October 1, 1989
Plant notation                         1              2                     Octobtr 1  199I
nniturmg & tvaluation                  1              2                     October  . 1990
Short to                               6-8            2 LZa                January 1, 1988
sSotal                                          12-1/2
PvtiamgtMme1h Care                     I              1                    July 1. 0898
CoiasatonI I                                                                July 1. t988
Monitorin   & Evoluation              I              I                    July 1. 1990
Short term                             S-S6           Lw                   October 1. 1988
Subtotal                                         4-2/3
Ina  nr
Water Resources                        2              1 1/2                January 1  1992
Irrtgatioff                            2              1 1/2                January 1. I99
Operatiot and Mainteancae              2                                   January 1 * m
Subtotal                                         4 -1/2
TOTAL                                           21 Z3
Q Flnanced under PPr umIr P387.
I Including GIN Service.



Project Costs:  seumiU                     nm1uL EWLWUNT FIEC
_uitn Acmi bv PoJect Ctponen
ftlatS '000)
ESIIL SENES
IEWL ISt            wmtu      11      1                           IE TN-
tt7EXTEI5   FlU    N  IE   T I3tlWFM VE IM&  I IU  KEUIET  FETIIZR   C     3 UWIT  Totol          I   bsmt
1. INESn    Csts
A. CIVIL UIKS                       31972.7    8545.           -       39440*2    3656.9           -  1,03,    199675.4   6529.9 6 14.0 9,54.3
B. EIfIIES                           3,203*7   13461.1     56.3        1,94.6         3.8          -    723.9       241.3  13274*8 10.0 I327.
C. IlR t I EWUIFINT                  79335.1   1t647.9      268.1      953,8.3    2,027*7          -        -       246.1  20hUS2 10*0 2MM08.5
3. FERTILIZER                             -                    -                        -   13,943.7        -           -  13943.7  0.0      0.0
E. TEOIICAI  ASSISTAICI             13.096    5M5M7.8  t1447.7         60161            -          -              3 5757.7  338672.?  07   2.*3
F. FEUOPS                            3t941.0    3506.7                 1,375.3          -          -        -           -   6,320  0.0       0.0
TotalW  IiENt COTS                     64,506.1   18,759.5   227.1      23,364.5     59M78*5   139943.7  1#762.4    25942.4  156,529.1  3*4 13H13M6A
11. mwm xm i
A. I1"_t^L SIAIES I ULMu    1003M.6    4,956*3   2,511.0             1O6764        334.6          -    503.4           -  31,077.5  0.0      0.0
3. MEICLE PE1A1IONE t RIIIEIRW      2,6154       827.4     5M0.8      2166.9       151.3          -    711.1           -   7,022*9 10.0    2.3
C. EUBIPIT lETI t I rADNENI               -          -        -       4,234.2          -          -        -           -   46234.2 1.0   423.4
D.s OFFIE S UJILDIS UIUIECE              -          -      520A4      5077.6                     -                1t3231   6.9M.o  00   692.1
E. IEuIhIRRTtu FANS                 1,013.3      135.8        -            -                               -       435.9   1,590.4 10.0  IS9.0
F. MiRAINI                           tv53266     627.1        -            -           -          -        -           -   2,359.7  9.0     0.0
TStlI ECIwt CMs                       115230.5    6*746*6   3492.2      24,157*0       406.1             1,214*.     1,758.9  53205.3  3.7 1t76.9
Tout NSELIIEmuS                         79,766.7   25,S6*0   5PO4.3      47,521.5     6,464*5   13943.7  2,97.9    2701.3 29,734.9  7.2 15MI17.S
stnical Catim pei"                    6,713.2    1,261.8     1396      2,545*2       605*8          -    247.3     3344.6  15107.5  0.0       0.0
Price Cuting ies                     9    5.   69353   14,373.?9   12S238.2        9125.3   169642.1  74291       74,128*7 5W0913.0  7*1 35,919.3
Total PbDEtt C1TS                      285 65.4   37,7M.1  203422.    175,304.?    16W395.6   30*305.7 10,523*4   105,174. 731,745.5  7.0 51,026.3
- - === mm=                                                                         min_
TMu                                   4573.6    2,325.0  1t117*5       5.047.0       IS2.0          -    25I.3          -  13,426.4  0.0      0.0
Foreigo E   _nh                    1t65557.8   448645.0   7,65.5        137W6     10446.4   29r0o2.   5.150.8    64,241.2 413*275*6  7.5 319334.1
__F__ I           2
Febw  25. 2937 12:0                                                              ,a



11MW M    tne
Project Costs:  SWtIWU   REGIIM  AMICTMA iSWUWIEW  PRUACI
Suarv Accotnts bw Year
Totals IncludinM CuntitodCies                                   Totals lIuloudm  Ca.ttiencies
tRlyU S @00)                                                     tMSS 0O01
87      8e      3       90       91       92        3    Totl       07     33     0       90     9      92    93    Toul
t. TIPJKSTINtT coTS
A. CItIL UIIIS                           - 9.31.1  56,066.4  12.134#2 635.16.4 43.183.0 49125.2 20.034.1      -  6.5 279.3 3t0e.5 2.072.? 1*212.9  104.3 9.99.?
P. WHICtES                           337.7 3,453.1  9,353.3 12,397.2 13U673.8  4.339.0       - 44.0.1    30.9  225.0  486.2  479.8  435.2  135.9         - 1t.t7
C. IoEIR  I tCIIPEW                  395 2m.77,29,030.3 20,501.0 19.324.6            -       - 64.030.6    34.3  1O.9 19037.6  M.4  61.0          -      - 247.3
D. FERtIZEK                         4420.2 6,619.6  3.746.3 t0t959.6        -        -       - 30.563.?  367.5  431.4  435.7  424.1       -       -      - 2d50.6
t. TEIC3UCL ASSISTUSC               7.392.2 13.661.1  2ht7.2 32,207.9  8.337.1       -       - 32.376.8   437.6  890.2 1U032.5 12464  269         -      - 4*.O3.7
t. FELUIPS                               -   578.1  29220.4  59697.7   548.8  6567.5   613.3 24.230.7         -   37.7  110.6  220.5  272.t  134.5  S.6   340.9
Total IDESTIEt COSTS                 12.407.? 36,627.2 117,0,9 13U947.* 1159070.3 54590.3 4.743.4 505,338.0 1,070.3 2.33.6 5'375.3 69344.8 34.1 I.U3  119.9 20M9f2.4
It. IElJIRET COSTS
A. IE*T AL MANS t  IUIES   1239.1 6.364.9 13.262.1 21,13.7 27M5M1.7 33,264.3 19133,2 122,.03.6   111.2  414.3   6.6    MA0.0  07.3  934.3  433.8 4,301.4
F. WIlEI  31TI1l I   IUltUilC          -   725.7  1.11.6  4.14.9  3,793.7 10,209.1 5,477,3 314511A4         -   47.3   93.7  171.o  210.0  21.67  133.5 19017.2
C. EWlIPHEUT W3T111110 1 S TEIC         -       -        -   t347.2  5403.4  925.1 3,304.5 21,435.2          -      -      -   52.1  113.5  259.1  134.1  623.3
D. OFICE 1 lUltDI3II iUltEISE           -    95.5   333.7  5185#.9  8473.4 11426.6  0S3*.4 33,9*6            -    6.2   17.7  20.7  269.7  320.9  203.7 14013.9
E. IEUASITlI0  rlS                   34.4   221.0   511.9  tt140.3  1,695.6  2.1BS.0 1,236.7  6,924.8      3.0   14.4   25.5   4.3   54.0   61.4   31.3   229.7
F. TRAIN3SB                             -    42.9    80.1  l,670.3  3,209.3  322.4  IS96.2 10,331.8          -    2.8    4.0   64.6  102.2  110.2   43.2   331.9
loutalc(hT cOSTS                      1.323.4 7,450.0 1091.4 34451.4 35,336.8 70,233.1 41t121.3 224t7.4   114.2  43.5  31.5 1,343L7 1,61.1 1972.61039.5  n523.1
Total R31I£? COSTS                    13,73.1 44077.2 134,042.3 197".0 170,47.6 124,323.5 43S364.7 73174s.5 1O14.4 2,872.2 4,676.9 7493.S S,423.1 3.565.? 1,I.4 213515.5
---:--s:-=m-    mmm   mm: msm-                                            a m . mm  mm,Uis :m                _m =mm ==
Vebtw,. 25. t1B7 12:06
.- 
l~ ~ ~ ~



TEIfN mm REfUlIC
Project  Costs:            SUIIm RSEIOml AICI4RMA   MELOE3T PRJECT
mblEww Qf snmlls aCWUinIS
(052 '39)
Om Costs                      Wical continmwitc                 rtic Cantilfnfc                                                        Pu
----- - -- -                        ____ -- -     _ -    -_---------------      ---  --------   --                   oto le. Cnt.                Ct. Pl
Local                              LoCa                               Lcal                    --- Pn. ot.
(Excl.  bi., I                      (Exscl. luties I                  Ifxc1. Duties I                    teed (Cxcl. Mu, S              e an ""edal
For. Exch. Tas)  Tim    Totl   Fat. Exeb. Tam) Taxn    Total   For. txeb. Tam)  Taws  Total   Far. Exd*h    Tan)    Tme    Total                     Cant.
t. I"UESIII COSts
A. CIt MS                               4*408.4 39206.0       - 7*614.4       614.6 449.2        - 120.3.9      45.7  837.0          - W2M23.?    5,479.6     4429.3         - 9*99.9       19223.2
P.  lES                                 12406.0   61.9        - 1*475.0       140.6   6.9        -  147.5       133.5   16.         -   tSM.5    1#86.2          92.7        -  #*7.9         21t.2
C. NRIltoRT I ElIVIIUT                  2*101.1  130.6        - 2.231.?       210.1  13.1        -  223.2        182.2   31.2        -  219.4    2*1499.4       174.8        - 2*64.3         243.1
D. FERTILIZER                           1*477.6   n.7         - 1*549.3           -      -       -       -       "*5    14.2         -  109*3      42*72.8       l5.9        - 2*58.6             -
t.  TECOPIC  AStSSTINCE                 34*04.0  159.6        - 3*63.7         22.2   2.3        -   24.5        252.2   33.3        -  215.6    3,878.S        195.3        - 4*073.7         26.7
F. FELUOUI?51S                            723.1   35.1        -   7?5.1           -      -       -       -        74.3    8.5        -   12,8        974         43.5        -   040.9            -
ral JN3TIT COSTS                          13v720.2 3672.9        - 13m.l         97.5  471.5        -1.459.0    1W2W1  41.2           -2141*3    15*9070        5*684*6       -20,9924        1,654.2
Il. RECIUtEI COSTS
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
A. IU5CEIAL STA.  l  S I ML1AlS              - 3.073.2   379.8 3.453,1           -      -       -       -          -  75.1    93.3  86.4               -     3*8.3   473.2 4.301.4               -
P. MU      ETtATIUP t 1IEW1IC            406.1  374.2        - .  7.3         40.6  37.4        -   78.0        52.5  106l4         -  13S9        4993        518.0        - 1*047.2         92.5
C, EUOlP10t UCRATIW  3 IIWIMIIEI         244.9  225.6        -   47305        24.5  22.6        -   47.0         36.8   69.5        -  106.3       356.2       317.6        -   623.8         56.7
S. OfICE I WlOIPN16 VAtDITENU            353.2  415.9        -   769.0        35.3  41.6        -   76.9         49.5  123.S        -  173.0       4VD.9       51.0         -  1*03.9         92.6
E. _INSI TIOU FM"                         92.0   84.7        -   176.7         9.2   8.5         -   17.7       t1.6   23.8         -   35.3       112.7        117.0       -   229.7         20.9
F. TWUMS                                     -  242.2        -   262.2           -      -       -       -          -   69.7         -   6.7            -       331.9        - 331.9              -
Total RECIEt COSTS                         I*0960 4,435.9   379.3  591s1.0       1(.06  110.0       -  219.7       150*5 1,147,9    93.3 2391.7    19356ol       5.6938   473+2 7*523.1         262.7
T.tal                                      144826.3 8207.8   379.8 23M303.9      *7.1  5U.5          - 1*678.6    1*350.6 M2OM.      93.3 3*53.0   17,20.9    10*771.4   473.2 28t1S.5          1*916.9
rFebu v 25. 2987 t1:05
a. z
0-
0



- 56 -
ANNE  I
Table 10(d)
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recurrent Costs8.
Component                               Total Incremental'"      Annual'3
------(us$ million Equivalent)
Agricultural Extension                           2.10            0.61
Rural Development for Women                      0.95            0.27
Veterinary                                       0.45            0.12
O&M                                              3.42            0.83
Subtotal Support Services                      6.92            1483
Nursery                                          0.07            0.01'4
CACB                                             0.17            0.05
Irrigation Development                           0.26/i          0.08'5
Subtotal                                       0.50            0.14
Grand Total                                    7.42            1.97
/1  Base cost adjusted to December 1986 prices.
/2 Total over the six year project implementation period.
L3  Annual at year six of the project and onwards.
A   Expected to be fully recovered from the sale of planting materials to
farmers.
/5 This include US$0.20 million and US$0.05 million respectively in the total
and annual O&M costs of the irrigation schemes.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year                   Biannual            Cumulative        Percentage
Semester Ending                 Disbursements        Disbursement           (X)
- (US$ Million Equivalent)
1987
June 30, 1987                      0.2'1                0.2               1.6
1988
December 31, 1987                  0.3                  0.5               4.0
June 30, 1988                      0.2                  0.7               5.7
1989
December 31, 1988                  0.4                  1.1               8.9
June 30, 1989                      1.0                  2.1              17.1
1990
December 31, 1989                  1.8                  3.9              31.7
June 30, 1990                      1.9                  5.8              47.2
1991
December.,31, 1990                 1.8                  7.6              61.8
June 30, 1991                      1.8                  9.4              76.4
1992
December 31, 1991                  1.1                 10.5              85.4
June 30, 1992                      0.8                 11.3              91.9
1993
December 31, 1992                  0.5                 11.8              95.9
June 30, 1993                      0.3                 12.1              98.4
1994
December 31, 1993                  0.2                 12.3             100.0
/1  Project Preparation Facility of US$0.4 million for expenditures incurred
before July 1, 1987.
Closing Date: June 30, 1994.



Table 12
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
Crops
Financial           Economic
A. Outputs (YThs/ton)
Sorghum Grain                3,400                1,200
Stover                 560                 450
Wheat Grain                  3,100                1,600
Straw                    700                 560
Maize Grain                  3,400                1,200
Stover                   560                 450
Pulses                    . 8,000                 3,100
Potatoes                     2,300                1,450
Vegetables /1                4,300                3,200
Coffee                      44,000               26,000
Banana                       8,000                3,900
Citrus /2                   11000                 3,700
B. Inputs (YRlslkg)
Seed Cereals                  5.5                 4.4
Pulses                       10.0                 8.0
Potatoes                      4.0                 3.2
Vegetables                  400.0               320.0
Seedlings Coffee              3.0                 2.4
Banana                       10.0                 8.0
CitrLs                       30.0                24.0
Farm yard Manure              0.25               0.25
Fertilizer all (blended)      5.5                 2.0
Pesticide                    60.0                36.0
Mechanization (YRls/br)     100                  60
Animal Hire (YRis/day)
-Minimum                    100                 80
- Maximum                   150                 120
Farm Labor (YR1s/day)
- Minimum                    40                  20
- Maximum                    80                 40
Water (from well) (YRls/M3)  0.30                 0.37
/ Taking tomatoes as representative of vegetables.
/2 Taking citrus as representative of fruits.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Table 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers' Contacts /
Area     Farm Units      Number of Expected Adopters (Cumulative)
Farm /Tpe1           '000 ha        No.              1987 /2       1993       1997
Taiz - Model la          77.00        51,000            12,000       19,600     21,000
2a         19.00        12,000             4,000        6,700      11,500
3a          0.15           150                 -          150         150
4a          0.3            300                            300         300
4c-'A       0.15           100                 -          100         100
Ibb - Model  lb          70.00        47,000            18,000       28,800     31,000
2b         18.00         9,000             6,000       10,000       7,600
3b          0.20           200                 -          200         200
4b          0.30           150                 -          150         150
Total         1         147.00        98,000            30,000       48,400     52,000
2          37.00        21,000            10,000       16,700      19,100
3           0.35           350                 -          350         350
4           0.75           850                 -          550         550
Granid ToLal                   120,200            40,000      66,000      72,000
/1  Models 1 and 2 reflect development due to extension activities only.
Models 3 and 4 reflect development due to extension activities and irrigation
development.
/2  Existing adoption as a result of SURDP I and II extension activities.
13  Farm model 4c represents irrigation improvement by use of minisprinklers in both
Tiaz and Ibb areas.



- 60                             Tsable 14
YEWENARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOtPENT PROJECT
Inc remetal, Value of Taxes4l
(This million)
Incremental Taxes
Present
Zakat 12     Coon.Tax. /3      Total            Value A
_ (Yals million)
I. Rainfed/Sgate Irrigated Areas
Farm
Models
la            1.1            0;3              1.4             6.8
lb           2.8             0.7              3.5            46.1
3a            1.0            0.2              1.2             6.1
3b            1.0            0.3              1.3             6.3
Sub-total    5.9             1.5               7.4           65.3
It.  Pum-Irrigated Areas
2a           1.0             0.5              1.5             7.8
2b           1.1             0.6              1.7             8.8
4a           0.5             0.2              0.7             3.4
4b           0.2             0.1              0.3             1.6
4c           0.5             0.2              0.7             3.4
5           13.2             6.6             19.8            78.9
6            0.7             0.3              1.0             7.1
Sub-total   17.2             8.5             25.7           111.0
Total       23.1            10.0             33.1           176.3
Ll  Annual tax revenues at full development.
/2  Religious tax set at 102 and 52 of the gross value of production in
rainfed/sp&te and pump irrigated areas respectively.
3  Cooperative tax is set at 2.51 of the gross value of production.
L   Over a 30 year period at 12% discount rate.



-61-                         ANNEX 1
Table 15
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Rent Recovery
(Irrigation Rehabilitation only)
Farm Model    Farm Model
3a            3b
Farm Size (ha)                                             1.0           1.0
No. of Farms (No.)                                         150            200
Discounted Value Streams '1
('000 YRls)
1.  Incremental Gross Value of Production                282           177
2.  Less Incremental Input Cost                           95            76
3. Equals Net Incremental Income                         187           101
4.  Less Imputed Value of Family Labor42                  50            26
Imputed Value Mgt. Service, Risk & other'3         28             17
5.  Equals Rent/Surplus '4                               109            58
6.  Rent as 2 of net Incremental Income (5/3)           582            571
7.  Zakat Tax '5                                       28.2           17.7
8.  Cooperation Tax ;s                                   7.1           4.4
9. Total Direct Charges/Taxes (7+8)                    35.3           22.1
10.  Rent Recovery Index (9/5)                           32%            381
11.  Net Incremental Income Recovery (9/3)                192           222
12.  Public Tnvestment Cost 7
Rehabilitation Works                             49.1            60.0
Operation & Maintenance                           5.1             5.8
13.  Cost Recovery Index (9/12)                          65%             34%
14.  Farmers' Income per capita at full dev./8           6.0             3.1
/1  Items 1 through 14 are incremental values, in constant 1986 values
discounted at 12% over 30 years.
/2 Valued at market wage rate (YRls 60/day).
/3 Calculated at 107 of incremental gross value of production.
/4 Gross rent (incremental tax not deducted).
/5 107 of the gross value of production at full development.
/6 2.5% of the gross value of production at full development.
/7 Investment and 0 & M costs apportioned to number of benefitting farms.
/8 Average family size 5.6 persons.



! i2 .-       i : - ;           Table 16
Yvk  AM  xfV, ft
*~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '   I
SOUTRW4 REGIONAL ,AGRICULTURAL 9       NENT PROJECT
'' 
Ecoaom bost & Beaef il:  ,.a 
T>aiTpa                         i\           Net
IT,t'4+tat            Inc tnal              Incremental
Periods              Be1ti              1  >its   *              Benefits
\ u_*-- ~~~~~~(YRlsF ad,ttoQ-
1                   0.0                ,7.i                   -37.0
2                   0.1 t                 j.L.                -30.0
3                  'O47                  41.}                 -30.5
4                                         2. i                -20.0
5                   4.5                 214                   -16.7
6                   7.9                                       -12.0
7                 `13. 7" ',                                    9.4
8                  244 .!542                                   19.6
9                  35.6'N        ' '    14.7                   20.9
10                  55<t \ >        '\    . Zi;  '. .t  \       48.1
1 2              ,                           :A527. 4
13                k6i,o        -       '>  7.,4(,               54.6
14                'i84'..ji,\'..|'51.0
.15                 58.4                  1617>                 42.3
16                  5 58.4         .  ' '                       51.0
17-30               . 58.4          ,    .   7.V                   51.0
,. ,,, (SenitivityT est 
*               ~~~~~p",et,we\
Test Caw                  Vasise ^t OCZ     Internal
Variation _,              of U209-i,   Rate, of Return (2)
Bas,e                      1 ' 9,    ' .        16
TotAl Cost up 20-    25                         14
Total Benfits, down 202      21                 13
Total Cost up Z$  &   )
Total Benefit d&u 201)    -15    ,
Total Cost 1Jg 2 ye4  1o      4                 13
I.   .              -         -.



63-                          MINE
Table 17
YEMN ARAB REPUBLIC
.   SOUERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rebabilitation of Small Irrigation Schemespl
Ecoomic Cost & Benefit Streams
Total                Total                  Net
Icremental           Incremental           Incremental
Periods             Benefits               Costs                Benefits
(YRls million) -
1                  0.0                   0.0                   0.0
2                  0.0                   1.5                  -1.5
3                  0.0                   3.2                  -3.2
4                  0.2                   7.3                  -7.1
5                  0.9                   6.0                  -5.1
6'                 2.2                   4.2                  -2.0
7                  4.0                   2.4                   1.6
8                  6.1                   3.0                   3.1
9                  7.9                   3.8                   4.1
10                  9.3                   4.3                   5.0
11                  9.9                   4.7                   5.2
12-30                 10.1                   4.8                   5.3
Sensitivity Test
Present
Test Case                Value at OCC      Internal
Variations                of 12.01         Rate of Return (S)
B"e Case                      6.0                17
Total cost up 201             0.0                12
Total Benefit down 201       -1.2                11
Total Cost up 201
Total benefit down 201       -7.0                 6
Total Benefit Lag 2 years   -1.3                 11
l Laheij, Yehjel, Segen, Rabat-Al-Shah, Hiram and Al-Amirah.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irriaation Schemes and Dams
Terms of Reference
1.       Introduction:  There are numerous ancient small dams (catcbment areas
5-20 Km' and resevior areas 5-15 ha) and potential sites for new dams in the
southern spillways and outlet works that are damaged and have become
ineffective. Some of these small dams could be rehabilitated by raising or
repairing the embankments and ituproving the spillways and the outlet works.
The water thus stored during the summer rainy season could be used
beneficially during the winter months for growing more income generating
crops. The conveyance and distribution systems for irrigation from these dams
also need improvements.
2.       Regarding new dams, several brief studies were undertaken by various
agencies in the past but no final recommendations have So far been made. All
these agencies have pointed towards the need for collection of streamflow and
sediment data which are lacking. An FAO identification mission inspected a
potential dam site at about 5.3 Km South-East of Al Saadah Village along the
As-Saadah-Al Nadirah road and recommended preliminary investigations at that
site. There are several similar sites in the wadi and on its various
tributaries which should be investigated.
3.       Study Area:  The Southern Region borders on the Central Highlands to
the North, 81-Beida Governorate lying to the east, the Tihama region to the
west and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to the south (See map,
IBRD 19801). It covers all of Tais and Ibb Governorates except the coastal
area which actually belongs to the Tihama region. The mean annual rainfall,
which is strongly affected by altitude varies from 700-1,000 mm in the
Ibb-Yarim area (elevation 1,500-3,000 m) to about 560 m in the Tais area
(elevation 1,400 m). The mean monthly temperature in Taiz range from about
20°C in December to 27-C in July with corresponding minimum and maximum values
of 13.56C and 33eC. There are frosts in the Yarim highlands during December
to January.
4.       Water Resources:  Several perennial or seasonal wadis arise from the
Southern Highlands, including the three major wadis of YAR-Bana, Tuban, and
Zabid. Two major tributares of Wadi Bana are Wadi Ajlob and Wadi Shahlab.
The Wadi Bana catchment, lying north of the border with PDRY covers nearly
10of the project area and measures *bout-2,200 Kma. The wadi rises in the
high plateau of the Southern Uplands at an altitude of over 3,000 m and flows
almost perenially in NW-SW direction until it reaches the YAR-PDRY borders.



-65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
With an estimated annual precipitation of about 350 mm for the project area
and 550 mm for the Wadi Bana catchment, the annual surface water resources are
estimated as follows:
Project Area                        (650 to 900) 106m3
Wadi Bana catchment to PDRY border (120 to 180) 106m3
5.       Data Availability:  Topographical and aerial survey maps in scale
1:50,000 are available for the study area.  The hydrological data available
are mainly rainfall records at Yarim, Ibb and Taiz. Streamflow data are not
available. The consultants will be required to install wadi gauging stations
for collection of data to be used subsequently during detailed studies.
6.       Services and Materials to be provided by the Consulting Firm:  The
consulting firm should provide all personnel, equipment and materials to
perform the work, except for service, materials, transportation, logistic and
local staff support to be provided by the Ministry of agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF) of the Government of YAR. These should clearly be stated by
the consulting firm in its proposal. The firm is expected to complete the
study over a period of 9 months with an input of about 25 expatriate
man-months. The study will be carried out under the guidance and supervision
of SURDU (Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit) of MAF.
1.       Reporting:  The consulting firm will be required to prepare and
submit the following reports to StRDU.
(a)  Inspection Report:  Giving details of Method Statement at the end of
the first month of study.
(b)  Progress Reports:   Giving status of work at the end of the third and
the sixth months.
(c)  Final Report:       Giving details of designs and drawings for the
irrigation schemes and the final alternative for
Wadi Bana Dam, with recommendations for carrying
out feasibility study subsequently.
8.       Scope of work:  The work to be performed by the consulting firm will
comprise the following two parts:
Part I: Design for six small irrigation schemes including rehabilitation of
small ancient dams
(a) Review the inventory of small ancient dams and other irrigation
schemes prepared by SURDU and finalize a short list of sites based on
economic and technical viability, also considering those prepared in
the previous studies at Al-Amirah, Lahey, Yehjel, Segen, Hiram &
Rabat Al-Shah, for detailed studies.



- 66 _
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
(b) Set design criteria and procedures for the design of the irrigation
schemes.
(c) Carry out field investigations and surveys, as needed, to prepare
final design for at least six schemes.
(d) Prepare final designs, drawings and specifications for the
rehabilitation/development of the six irrigation schemes, including
the conveyance and the distribution systems.
(e) Train MAP's staff to follow-up design of similar additional schemes
for development/rehabilitation to achieve the irrigation development
potential in the region.
Part II: Identification of Dam site in Wadi Bana
(a) Review and study the existing information and aerial photographs to
check the selection of possible dam sites in conjunction with
irrigable area for field inspection.
(b) Collect and evaluate all available hydrological data.
(c) Identify location, supply equipment for streamflow gauging (about 5
locations) and hydrological data collection (about 5 stations) and
supervise installation by SURDU.
(d) Carry out field inspections of the best possible dam sites to note
physical and geological features and to collect, from a limited test
pitting program, samples to provide information on materials present
at the dam site and in possible borrow areas.
(e) Calculate storage volumes at the reseviors for various possible dam
heights and relate these to assumed inflow derived from the
hydrological studies.
(f) Prepare outline designs for the principal works at the most promising
dam sites and areas to be irrigated and obtain preliminary
construction cost estimates.
(g) Compare reservior capacities, cost of construction of dams and
distribution system and any other relevant factors between the
alternative sites and recommend which site/sites deserve further
study.
(h) Investigate and record potential international riparian issues, that
could arise by the construction of dams at the recommended dam sites.
(i)  Prepare detailed terms of reference for consultants to carry out full
feasibility study (stage II) of Wadi Bana study.



_ 67 -
ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTUJAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of Training Courses
1.        Introductory courses would be given in agriculture to all female
agriculture extension agents and in home economics/nutrition to all home
economics female extension agents. The courses, which would be given by SURDU
staff with assistance from expatriate experts, would each be of 16 weeks
duration and would, in the case of agriculture, focus on agriculture
technology and extension methodology, with some exposure to home
economics/nutrition (2-3 weeks). In the case of home economics/nutrition, it
would focus on primary health/nutrition, handicrafts and use of "appropriate
technology" (paras. 3.12 and 3.34 of the main report), with some exposure to
agriculture. The courses would be taught by the senior staff of the rural
development for women program, assisted by expatriate specialists and SMSs of
the male extension service.
2.        Training in project related technology would be given separately to
male and female extension agents by the SMSs, assisted in the case of
agriculture technology, by the research staff. The training would consist of
a series of short (one-week) courses related to the recommended extension
packages, which would include irrigation techniques, crop production, tree
production, animal husbandry, mechanization and various "appropriate
technology" for the rural development for women. Project orientation and
extension methodology would be given separately to all male and female
extension staff (about 210). The course would be of three weeks duration and
would focus on project objectives and methodology, mass commun^cation
techniques, farmer survey and use of audio-visual aids. It is to be given by
senior extension staff at the headquarters.
3.        In addition, SMSs and extension supervisors would be given seasonal
refresher courses of short duration (2-3 days workshops) focusing on the
latest technology that is being recommended to farmers. These would be given
by the senior SMSs and the research staff. Also, regular fortnightly
in-service training would be given to all extension agents on topical subjects
related to next month's programs by the SMSs and supervisors at the block
center level.



_ 68 _
ANNEX 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Parameters and Assumptions for Economic Analyses
(i)    All benefits and costs were calculated using constant 1986 prices,
adjusted to reflect benefits and costs at the farm-gate level. They
were also adjusted for all apparent transfer payments, such as,
taxes, duties and subsidies.
(ii)    Costs of construction of irrigation schemes and strengthening of the
extension services were phased in accordance with the implementation
schedules.
(iii) A project life of 30 years was assumed in the analysis. Each
investment item (machinery and equipment) has been replaced
regularly, when necessary, and at the end of their respective useful
life; however, no salvage value has been imputed for such items.
(iv)    Since some technological improvements have been assumed to occur in
the next 30 years, the "without project" situation will therefore
reflect increased production compared to pre-project situation.
(v)    All incremental production and inputs were phased in at the rate at
which farmers represented by the various models are expected to
benefit from extension services of the project.



- 69 -
AMNE 5
YEMEh' ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
A.1    FAO/IBRD/CP - Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Preparation Report (54/86 CP - YEM26),f April 16, 1986
A.2    FAO/IC - Southern Uplands Rural Pioneer Women Development Project
Formulation Report (47/86IF-YEM25), March 27, 1986.
B. Working Documents
B.1    Agricultural Development
B.2    Rural Development for Women
B.3    Engineering Component
B.4    Cost Estimates
B.5    Economic and Financial Data



YOEU ARAB KEPUBLIC
SOthfUMR  REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Calendar
JAN         FEB         MAR          APR         MAY         JUN          JUL         AUG          SEP         OCT         NOV
1. ThZ                                                     .
A-ftinfed
SorgIe                                              I-//-- ------ -                                                  -----
Maize                                                    -- -      - - - - - - - - - -     - - - - - - - - - -       - -
B-Irrigated
Maize          ________ ---------- ----- .          -----              -- ---------- -----/------                             -------   ..... -----
Legumes                                                                     - - -//I-     __________ __________ __________ ____-
Potatoes   _.I./// --------- --------- _ --
Vegetables    -.-/--- _       - -    -----                                    ---------I---------/I  -________    ------         //J-// ----------________
A-Raieifed
SorghUn                                                         I      --f/----/-----                   -----       -----          ----------
Wheat         1                                                             ////I---- ---------- ---            __________
Maize                     l                                      l//I________   _____   ___________.....
Pulses                                                                           -- - - - - - --I- - - --           - - - - - - - - - -
Potatoes                                     l                              /-/- ---_ ---------- ---------
B-Irrigated o
W heat         ----------     ----------     ----------     ------   ...     ....................__JJ    
Mbts 20/___ ________ ---------- ------- ------                             .    ............. -----  ---____-  ---------  -----------_____  --.-..-..-.--.-
Pulses                    j       -/-/_____ __________ __________ ---
Potatoes                   /    -//I-_ _________- __________ --- -   /f----- __ __________                       ---------- ----------
I/I//I/Il/  Land Preparation and Seeding
--- ----  Growing
.......... .Harvesting



Vhf  ARAM IPfHfIW
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.  -                         Ca~~~~~~~~landr Y*ar-    1X 1 181             9                      9          12092   1          1-     
. ttiwitY                                                                                                        - $         1  114112-14121* f11 tl    I 112 1    j 1 " 1  
Appointment of Key Experts                        xxxx
Fimaliiation of Irrigation Oesign                 xxxx
a. u           numg~~
Bailding--s3mm                                                                                                                DUM---   --
vehicles ad Equipmmnt                                   ---- _----- x) .....................O.......XX....... ....
Local Staff                                             XXX  OOOXAXXUXXX  XXXXXXXXX XX0XXmXXOXm XXcooUOw  XXoXXXXXaX XXXX oX  Xxxxx
TcMical Assistance ad Foreign Training                  ----- XXXXXX_XXXX XXiXXXXXXX XXXoXXXXXX. XXXX3aoCOi XXM)aoaam)OXa.... ..... ..
3,  _           m     FOR Mm
aiAldin_s                                                      -- -XXXXXXXX      r _    o __xixx .ao g-xx X...... ......
Vehicles and Equipment                                 - - ---_xmoxxxxxx _           _               _ **     .........xaoooooooocx x..
Local Staff                                             mocix -uououowamxxiaaxwmxx Xow  ooaaooooux oamzxooow moooooooaox xxoo
Technical Asststance and Foreign Trainint               ----- xxxxxxxxxxx xa_ LOacxxxx         XxX ...
Suildings                                              -. XXX2OOOWX~ ~KNOOOC2OOIK -------- WWWW xx
Vehicles and Equipment                                                      -                     39oo -o------
Local Staff                                             xxxxx _XXXXXXoXX XuXXWX0k XXXXXXXXXXX .X3wxxx.v              . -------- .... xxx
Technical Assistane and fere in Training                ----- xxx..xioooc.x xaaoocx.......
S.
ehicleas aN  Equipment                                  ----- XXXXi_____.____ _   XXXXXXox               ..... .....
Lo    stal  ffaX XX _XXXXXXXXXX                                                -       XXXXXXXXXXX _XXX_XXXX  XXxxxxo XooXXXoXXo mocxx
Tecnlieal Assistance                    -- -XXXXX                          xxxx .
6. t""y"
Catrnetion and Establishuent                 ---- -xxxxxxxioocx x._-XXX-  xi-                     ....x..
gru~~~~~~-                                                  moot _____  mvoomx_o_.
Sahabilitation of sall Irrigation Schbes               ------ -----xx       Xxxx  xxxxx   _xx mocx   cxxxxxx_r__ ........
Establishment of Oonstration farms                            -----xXXXXX XXXXXXXX mc xx.._._.
ibi Sans Studies - first Phase                    xxxxx
Second Phase                                               ------              .....
U G L= R                                                  -----  xluxxx  _ XXXYXx                                                          ...................................
------ xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx x-xxx ......
.   UPMET TO CACS
--------  Design. Preparation of Procurewent Oc~ents nd Contract Award
xxxxExxxxx  Construct ion/lPl _ntation
.......... Disbusements



YEMEN ARAB REPUBIJC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
Orgnization od Implemenfing Agencies
CLCCD                                                        Agftulb" aa .RmenC
-|-      - e-     e                                  -T----c-l      -t  
idenson           Obll                                                                                                             tow    E n Str   A "Sam,
5s n            Se lronoe     oect Imple entaron&I                                                                           S       A0pe raslo       1              >1
'-M o                             Senic iall AssWnne In  Deofnn                                                            I-Teh ol Autao In
|tk,) k- ooernem                                                                                                                              kdoto |lblol e           I
A|ministrate and Technical Control                                                                                           Wo|ld       3|
Techncd Coodr ecllo    Conhd



YEMEN ARAB REPUBUC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Extension Service
G~~~~~~~~ijj                                                                    MINstot
slvfx                                     Ckero                                          MW    O
And .  h-   
Dep M-KW                                    DepA WwW
SURW                                        SURDU
.                                Di~~~~~~Aletbr
Women| Fairne 1s
.   OganI I.Dire .tor .eI
Mole                  F  Ir    enal Control
Administrative CoossSnation~~~mawsewn                                                enft ecio
lecCnis  co%o                                                                                                 u 11 nk      11
.                   |     .              .       .. 9
t            Wbrnen                Worne!n               Iafw
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
A"Iitow I" Technical C"fol
-1Clfidoorclnco                                                                                            Wadd bcx* 4W"-42



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IORD I M
44_                            - r                                   846
YEMEN ARAB kEPUBLIC
Dhohiu            SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.  SAUDI ARABIA    ./ a                  Nattrd             PROJECT  AREA
PROJECT AREA
-MAIN ROADS
.   |S  A  A  D  A  H            =    MSECONDARY ROADS
--KWADIS
IIIIIIII  DAM
-    NATIONAL CAPITALS
'  \            0&  \   /  8erot ro   CITIES, TOWNS AND VILLAGES
.-   \K_ J   \   \ i             |          4  ~~~~~~~~~~MAIN PORTS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
- 7  \   J-PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
H  A JR B INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-16°                                              Khomer
)   Abs . \   S Al N  A    A    \                                  MILES
40 ~        606
L   2   n  1  -w -  |    Athob  6 0   io 40  60  80  100
KILOMETERS
0                             ANId A
Al Moh Mij   SNA      0M                       A/R'IL DOA
\    8aijil    ) ~~Monokhoh  f      ~      -Ho'rib o!
Al Kfh      w      t An _iah
Monsiyo    Ryln~ _\                    8]                      >      .
Ri f . U)W. 1 . tAlowoO   8 it                                  O       L_ IJ)
14's                   so*i or                                                                                       140-
PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ETHIOPIA         -'               0t 
~~~~ \ /~~~~~~~~ ~-4AcOEN
Gulf of Aden
DJIBOUTI    t. I,
AUGUST 198



fi  t\  I./ '                       o A                          :1
4 <  /  *  A N
-~~ SAN   A     H 
..  / ',_ =.- o-- l  /   i0F ,'  /   0  , > wz   t  _  A   '   ' 0o|
'N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ WY
/ < ) < > >  r   R / V 
X t X 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
X    <f/   ,#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



*                                 J . .\\.'/nPEOPIES DEMOC-ATIC
?o A TMukh~t- .X -@T A
-''-I~~~~~AlA
,<- -i  2                7                                    440                                                              F. .-  -.-_ =2         0
KIL-OMJETERS
YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                               SAUDI ARABIA
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FEATURES                                                          -/
PROJECT FEATURES                         EXISTING FEATURES:                     ISOHYETS IN MLLIMETERS                       YEMEN       A    REPUBIC
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY                *   SURDU HEADQUARTERS              -- WADIS
*  EXTENSION CENTERS                                                          -   WADI SPREADS                     .YPEOPLE'S DEK
WOMEN DEVELOPMENT CENTERS                                                     ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                                           I"  REP. OF YEMEN
8 BLOCK CENTERS                      U3  8LOCK CENtERS                  |         GREATER THAN 1500
A  CACB SUB-BRANCHES                               * CACB BRANCHES 7500             LESS THAN i00      Y     f'                                        /
IRRIGATION SCHEMES                   A  CACB SUB-BRANCHES                     MAIN ROADSP
I9  NURSERY SITES                        IC  NURSERY SITES                        SECONDARY ROADS
O       II O&M BUILDINGS                         @  RESEARCH STATIONS                X  0 URBAN AREA, TOWNS
c                                                                                       - GOVERNORATE BOUNDARtES           EtHIOOA   -IS
. -*-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 



