Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15561
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1772-YAR)
May 1, 1996
Natural Resources, Water and Environment Division
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At time of ICR (Dec. 1995): Official Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = YRLS 50.00
Market exchange rate:    US$1.00 =  YRLS 120.00 (At time of ICR, as of
April 1995)
Official exchange rates:  US$1.00 =  YRLS 12.01 (1991-March 1995)
US$1.00 =  YRLS 12.01 (1990)
US$1.00 =   YRLS  9.76  (1987-1989)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)           = 0.039 inches
I meter (m)                 = 3.28 feet
I square meter (m2)         = 10.76 square feet
I kilometer (km)            = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)              = 10,000 square meters (2.47 acres)
I metric ton (ton)          = 2,205 pounds
I liter (1)                 = 0.264 gallons
1 I/s                       = One litre per second
I m3/s                      = One cubic meter per second
I Mm3                       = One million cubic meters
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ARA         =      Agricultural Research Authority
AREA        =      Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
CACB        =      Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CLCCD       =      Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative Department
CPO         =      Central Planning Organization
ERR         =      Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP             Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Programme
GOY                Government of Yemen
ICB         =      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                International Development Association
IFAD               International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB         =      Local Competitive Bidding
LCCD               Local Councils for Cooperative Development
MAF         =      Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (later changed to MAWR)
MAWR        =      Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
M&E         =      Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M         =      Operations and Maintenance
PPF         =      Project Preparation Facility
RDW         =      Rural Development for Women (also referred to as Women in
Development (WID)
ROY         =      Republic of Yemen
SDC         =      Swiss Development Cooperation
SFYP        =      Second Five-Year Plan
SMS         =      Subject Matter Specialist
SRADP       =      Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
SURDP       =      Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU       =      Southemn Uplands Rural Develolpment Unit
TDA         =      Tihama Development Authority
TFYP        =      Third Five-Year Plan
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ..................................... ii-vii
PART I Project Implementation Assessment
1.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives   ...................... .                      1
2.   Achievement of Objectives   ............................    I
Physical Objectives  ...... ..........1................. 
Financial and Economic Objectives  ...................... .                       5
3.   Major Factors Affecting the Project ....        .......... .                      5
Factors Not Subject to Government and Project Management Control  . .   5
Factors Subject to Government Control ...... .  . .                               6
Project Management ..................                                             6
4. Project Sustainability ...................                                          7
5. IDA Performance ...................                                                 8
6. Borrower Performance ..................                                             9
7. Assessment of Outcome ........ . . . ..                                             9
8.   Future Operations  .........  .         ..  .    ............  .   .  ..  .  .  ..    .   10
9.   Key Lessons Learned ........  .          .  ..    ...........  .   .  .  .  ..  .  .    .   10
PART 11  Statistical Tables
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments ....... .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   13
Table 2:    Related IDA Credits ........  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   14
Table 3:    Project Timetable .........  .          .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..    .   16
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  ....    .  16
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ..... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation ...... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
Table 7:    Studies included in the Project .......  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
Table 8A:  Project Costs  .........  ..  .         ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .   .  20
Table 8B:  Project Financing .........  .          .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..    .  21
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits  .......  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  21
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants  ....... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ..... .              .  .  .    .  28
Table 12:  IDA Resources: Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Table 13:  IDA Resources: Missions  ....... .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  29
Appendices:
A.  Aide-Memoire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program  Mission   .  31
B.  Borrower's Implementation Completion Report ..... .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  42
C.  Notes on Financial and Economic Analysis  ..... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  51
Maps:       IBRD 27977 and 27978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1772-YAR)'
PREFACE
I.           This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Yemen Southern
Regional Agricultural Development Project, for which Credit 1772-YAR in the amount of
SDR 9.8 million (US$12.3 million equivalent) was approved on July 17, 1987 and became effective
on June 2, 1988.
2.           The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995 after two extensions totalling 18 months
from the original closing date of June 30, 1994. In 1995, the amount of SDR 2.0 million was
cancelled from the IDA credit following the recommendations of the Country Portfolio Performance
Review agreed upon by the IDA and the Government in May 1995. The undisbursed amount as of
April 30. 1996 was SDR 457.521.27. The last disbursement took place in April 1996.
3.           Cofinancing of the project was provided by a Grant from the Swiss Government
(Swiss Francs 10.0 mil) and an IFAD loan (SDR 2.0 mil). Both these cofinancing institutions
extended their agreements at the request of the Government under IDA administration for an
additional year to enable completion of ongoing activities. As of April 30, 1996, SF 6.5 million was
disbursed from the Swiss Government Grant, and SF 3.5 million was undisbursed. Corresponding
figures for the IFAD loan were SDR 1 . I million and SDR 0.9 million, respectively.
4.           The ICR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) Mission2
(on behalf of MN2NE Division of the Middle East, and North Africa Region) and is based on the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), Supervision Reports,
discussions with the Task Manager and information obtained from the project files as well as
information supplied by the project staff, and the findings of the mission which visited Yemen in
November-December 1995. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing
input to the Aide-Memoire drafted by the mission, and preparing a brief ICR from the borrowers
point of view which is attached as Appendix B to this report.3
5.           The report was reviewed and amended by Mr. Nejdet Al-Salihi (MN2NE), who
consolidated and incorporated comments received by reviewers, Messrs. Dirk van der Sluijs, Tijan
Sallah, Youssef Fuleihan (MN2NE), Salah Darghouth, Division Chief (MN2NE), and Ms. Tufan
Kolan, Acting Project Advisor (MN2DR).
1/  YAR: Designating Yemen Arab Republic, the official name for Yemen at the time of appraisal, which was
altered to the Republic of Yemen after the unification in 1990 of the northern and southern parts of the
country. Current designation of the Credit is (Cr. 1772-YEM).
2/  Consisting of Messrs. F.K. Bishay (Mission Leader, Economist), J.H. Weatherhogg (Agricultural Economist),
and J.H. Newton (Agronomist, Consultant).
3/  Cofinanciers' comments received from the Swiss Development Cooperation and IFAD, have been
incorporated in the ICR.



-XI



Evaluation Summary
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1772-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.           During the period 1976-1987, IDA supported the agricultural sector in Yemen by
providing seven credits where the assistance focussed on regional agricultural development (Wadi
Hadramaut, Tihama and Central Highlands): and research and extension. By 1992, IDA had
provided further assistance to the sector by making available four credits for regional agricultural
development (Eastern Region; Wadi Hadramaut - Phase III; and the Southern and Northern Regional
Agricultural Development Projects); and two national projects (Agricultural Sector Management
Support: and Land and Water Conservation Projects (Table 2).
Project Objectives
2.           The main objectives of the project were: (a) to increase agricultural productivity and
incomes of farmers on 120,000 ha, including those of the low rainfall (400-500 nmm) areas of the
region by means of improved agricultural services; improved utilization of land and water resources;
and special assistance to women farmers; and (b) to improve the health/nutrition standards of the
rural families through improved extension services to rural women. These would help increase
agricultural production, primarily sorghum, maize, potatoes, wheat, pulses, fruits, vegetables, coffee,
meat, and milk in the project area, thus contributing to efficient import substitution, accompanied
by improvement in the standard of living of the rural population.
3.           The project's objectives were in line with the Government of Yemen (GOY) national
development objectives and priorities, and represented an appropriate follow-up to Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project [SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR) and SURDP 11 (Cr. 1067-YAR)], both of
which have received a satisfactory rating. The project design reflected balanced objectives of
increased and sustainable agricultural production and farmers incomes; optimum use and conservation
of natural resources; and an enhanced role of women in agricultural and rural development in the
Southern Highlands of the Republic of Yemen (ROY). It also endeavored to involve the private
sector in selected aspects of agricultural development (e.g., nursery development and expansion, and
veterinary services) and effectively supported the operation and maintenance, rehabilitation and
expansion of the rural water supply schemes established under the two earlier projects. To achieve
project's objectives, the project included nine components for: (a) regional agricultural extension
service; (b) rural development for women; (c) regional veterinary service; (d) tree nursery
development; (e) provision of fertilizer; (f) support to Cooperative and Agricultural Development
Bank (CACB); (g) irrigation development by rehabilitation of six existing small schemes with an area
of 350 ha if shown to be feasible by ongoing consultant studies; (h) establishment of regional O&M
service; and (i) technical assistance and training.



Evaluation Summary                                                                        iii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.            The project reached its objectives. Specifically, the project outcomes were: (a) crop
yields increased between 17 to 33 percent; (b) 66,000 farmers benefited from increased crop yields;
(c) new irrigation technologies and pilot irrigation schemes were initiated on about 300 ha; (d) over
100 rural water supply schemes established under the two earlier projects were rehabilitated and
maintained; (d) living conditions of rural women were improved by the establishment of a successful
women farmers extension system which continues to be fully supported by the local communities and
has benefited about 6,000 women to date; and (e) a cost sharing system for sale of nursery produce
and veterinary services was introduced, and set the stage for increased private sector role. In
addition to the quantifiable benefits, the project provided the community with substantial social and
economic benefits. A case in point is the role of women as extension agents. The fact that the
project met its objectives is a remarkable achievement, given the major internal and external
upheavals which were beyond the control of the project or the government, such as the Gulf Crisis,
the country unification, and the civil conflict of 1994. Under most circumstances, an agricultural
project of this nature and with similar achievements as noted above, would have been rated as highly
satisfactory. This project is being rated as satisfactory, to take into account the implementation
delays.
5.            In general, and especially when judged against the state of agriculture and food
production prevailing at the time of loan approval, which was insufficient to meet the growing
demand caused by the increase in workers' remittances and high population growth, the project's
achievements have been satisfactory. The project demonstrates an overall economic rate of return
(ERR) of about 14% (versus 16% at SAR), provided that post-project benefits will be realized
through a continuing commitment by GOY to post-project costs (Part I, paras 4.1 and 4.2 and
Appendix C). The following is a summary of the project's achievement by component with specific
quantitative data provided in Part I, para 2.
6.            The achievements under the regional agricultural extension service component have
been substantial and resulted in improvement in crop production through increases in yield;
introduction of farmers to improved technology; proper use of crop chemicals; introduction of green
fodder crops; and introduction of farmers to seasonal and medium-term credit. The impact of the
component at the farm level, however, could have been even better if it was not hampered by a
number of constraints particularly insufficient logistical support to field and technical staff (Part I,
paras 2.2 and 2.3).
7.            The achievement under the rural development for women component has been
substantial. The success of this component has been mainly due to the strong support and active
participation of the rural communities, the sound cooperation with staff from Ibb and Taiz
Governorates working in relevant fields in agricultural and rural development, and the contribution
of the Rural Water Supply component in enabling rural women to devote more time to creative
activities. Sustainability of this positive impact is most likely given the high sense of ownership by
the local communities and Government in addition to the continuing interest of other donors.
8.            The implementation of the regional veterinary service component has been closely
integrated with the livestock activities of the rural development for women component. Although
the costs of medicines for animal treatment have been recovered (at a subsidized rate) from livestock
owners, thus initiating a cost sharing arrangement, the private sector has not yet assumed a major



iv                                                                    Evaluation Summary
role in the provision of these services. The achievement under the component has been considerable.
Follow-up projects should address the issue of possible further privatization (Part I, para 2.5)
9.           The tree nursery development component has expanded production at the two existing
nurseries (reaching 83% of SAR proposals). Project management cancelled a third nursery to be
implemented under the project to avoid competition with private sector nurseries that have started
operating in the project area. While privatization of nurseries was not an objective of the project,
a process of partial cost recovery was initiated and should be further developed under follow-up
projects. With limited linkage between the nurseries and research during the last three years of the
project, the genetic quality of some of the seedling material did not improve significantly. The
achievement under the component, however, has generally been satisfactory (Part I, para 2.6).
10.          Actual quantities purchased under the provision offertilizer component were less than
planned in the SAR (1,900 tons compared to 8,400 tons in the SAR).  However, recently,
arrangements were made to transfer funds from other IDA-funded Emergency Recovery Project (Cr.
2258-YEM) to procure about 2,000 tons of fertilizer for the project. Further quantities were made
available to the project area from Government stocks secured through bilateral assistance of other
donor countries. As envisaged in the SAR, the private sector contributed towards filling the gap
between the inadequate supply and the rapidly expanding demand for fertilizer in the Southern
Region. The achievement under the component has therefore been partial (Part I, para 2.7).
11.          Provision was made under the support to CACB component for the establishment of
two new sub-branches and provision of vehicles in the extreme eastern and western parts of the
Southern Region. These sub-branches have been completed after being considerably expanded to
comply with CACB requirements and have commenced to provide CACB's services for extending
agricultural credit to farmers. Four vehicles have been supplied as stipulated at appraisal and are
being used by CACB in its activities in the project area. The achievement under the component has
been satisfactory (Part I, para 2.8).
12.          The main achievement under the irrigation development component included the
establishment of 22 demonstration farms (with sprinkler and drip irrigation covering two to four ha
each) and training farmers. In addition, work on the irrigation schemes (four small dams and related
irrigation works) is ongoing, and feasibility studies for 10 other small schemes have been completed.
Although all outstanding works on the small schemes will be completed under Swiss financing in
1996, the achievements of this component have been partial (Part I, paras 2.9 and 2. 10).
13.          The regional operation and maintenance (O&M) component's achievement in
providing support for over 100 rural water supply schemes to isolated communities, where existing
supplies were either limited or absent, has been substantial. This includes O&M, rehabilitation and
expansion of schemes established under the first two projects. The socio-economic impact of this
component on the stability of agricultural and rural communities is substantial.  There is a
considerable capacity to further expand this program; however, as a precondition to increasing
number of schemes, the issue of organization of water users in these communities and provision of
funds for maintenance of existing schemes needs to be agreed with the beneficiaries (Part I, para
2.11).
14.          Achievement under the technical assistance and training component has been
substantial. A new training center was constructed at Taiz and has provided over 3,000 days of
training for over 720 trainees (680 at SAR). The comprehensive TA program provided substantial



Evaluation Summnary                                                                     v
support and technical advice to the project staff by providing, in addition, external training and
expatriate staff. However, sufficient expatriate TA was not available to support the setting up of an
effective M&E system. To meet this challenge, the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) components have been modified to allow
financing for further local training and TA programs during their extended financial assistance period
through 1996.
15.          The good coordination and cooperation between the supervision team  and the
cofinancing partners in SDC and IFAD contributed to the smooth flow of project procurements and
disbursements. In particular, the participation of representatives from SDC and IFAD on supervision
missions was very conducive to a continuous dialogue between donors, project and Government.
16.          The project was carried out at an actual cost of US$21.73 million (against an
estimated US$28.51 million at appraisal). Actual financing was provided by IDA (Cr. 1772-YAR,
US$10.25 million), the Swiss Grant (US$4.8 million against SAR estimate of US$5.8 million), IFAD
(US$1.68 million compared to US$2.5 million at appraisal) and the GOY (US$5.0 million compared
to US$7.9 million at appraisal). Disbursements will continue for on-going activities during the one-
year extension in 1996. from the Swiss Grant and IFAD loan.
17.          The IDA's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory and in line with GOY national development objectives and priorities. The IDA's
procedures in relation to project implementation were favorable; and its performance in project
supervision was highly satisfactory. A major contributing factor to the highly satisfactory nature of
project supervision was the close cooperation established with the other two cofinanciers whose
components were being administered by the IDA.
18.          Due to external and internal factors that were beyond the Government's control and
which represented serious challenges to project implementation, the GOY performance was mixed,
ranging from highly satisfactory to less than satisfactory.  At appraisal, the Government was
committed to contribute around 28% of project investment costs. Expenditure by Government was
around 24% of total project costs at credit closing, which is roughly in line with the original
commitment. However, shortage of Government recurrent budget releases during the last three years
had constrained project activities during this period. This generic matter is the subject of an ongoing
dialogue between the IDA and GOY. To improve the serious situation resulting from shortages in
the recurrent budget and ensure the forthcoming counterpart funding, efforts have been mounted by
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources to ensure that local recurrent budget to the project
will be doubled in 1996 and beyond. Government procedures for procurement frequently resulted
in delays and prevented timely project implementation. However, following suggestions by the
IDA's supervision missions, procurement procedures improved substantially during the later years
of project implementation. Government coordination of the project between the two governorates
and between agricultural extension and research services could have been improved.  The
Government coordination of the donors' (IDA, SDC and IFAD) activities was satisfactory and had
a positive impact on the project's performance. With few exceptions, the Government complied
satisfactorily with the legal covenants as specified in the Development Credit Agreement (Table 10).
Project management performed well under difficult conditions and Project Managers and their staff
were highly motivated.



vi                                                                       Evaluation Summary
Project Sustainability
19.           The achievement of the project's long-term objectives hinges on certain challenges
which GOY will have to address and which include: (a) GOY's ability to mainitain the services
provided by the project in the post implementation phase, by provision of adequate recurrent
operational budgets; (b) improvilg the institutional and coordinatioln mechanisms necessary for
utilization of the human and physical infrastructure developed under the project; and (c) introduction
of measures to enhanice the coordination between the project's future operations and other related
sectoral activities in the project area. There are several ongoing activities which will continue to
be implemenited by SRADP.  The SRADP would implemiient these since it is MAWR's only
implementation agency in the region and has well-established offices and trained staff.  The
continuation of these activities will ensure the necessary external and local funding for SRADP which
will assist in the establislhmiienit of improved institutional and coordination mechanismiis and sectoral
coordination in addition to securing adequate operational budgets for the activities established under
the project. For these reasons and due to the project's considerable achievements, the project is
likely to be sustainable (Part 1. paras 4.1 and 4.2).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
20.           Althouglh a formal plan for the project's future operation has not been drawn up by
the management team, future activities are planned and some have already been initiated especially
under the extended operationi of the Swiss Grant and the IFAD loan (IDA administered) through
1996. The possibility of establishing a Regional Development Authority is being considered. In
addition, the Governmlient is also considering the possibility of bringing the Rural Feeder Roads and
Agricultural Support Services Project under SRADP Management. Two other projects including the
Land and Water Conservationi Project (financed by IDA), and Innovation Development in the
Agricultural Sector (funded by GTZ in collaboration with AREA) are currently being implemented
jointly with the assistance of SRADP. Since these and the other measures indicated above are being
considered by the Government and that MAWR intends to double the current operatilg budget
allocation, the project has been rated as likely to be sustainable.
21.           The following key lessons emerged from the project's implementation experience:
(a)    The timely availability of adequate recurrent local operational budget is vital
for the long-term sustainability of the project (para 18);
(b)    Effective management of complex projects (e.g., involving a number of
components, locations/regions, and partners in development) requires an
efficient regional coordination mechanism (e.g., regional development
authority or similar institution) to ensure optimum integration of project
components, appropriate sequencing of project activities, and effective
harmonization of project implementation and operations of various services
(para 23);
(c)    In the case where agricultural extension is supported under a particular
agricultural development project while adaptive research is assisted under
other complementary projects, there is a need to set up and implement a
pragmatic mechanism to forge effective and close links between extension and
research activities under the concerned projects (para 20);



Evaluation Summary                                                                 vii
(d)   The development and adoption of M&E systems should build on existing
practices and take into account the national capacity and training needs to
enable local operation and management of the systems (para 21); and
(e)    The benefits of close and coordinated working relationship with other
cofinanciers of the project. In the case where IDA administers components
financed by other donors, the participation of representatives of these donors
on supervision missions is very conducive to the establishment of an active
and continuous dialogue between Cofinanciers, Project Management and
Government (para 15).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1772-YAR)
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.1          The main objectives of the project were: (a) to increase agricultural productivity and
incomes of farmers, including those of the low rainfall ( 400-500 mm) areas of the region by means
of improved agricultural services; improved utilization of land and water resources; and special
assistance to women farmers; and (b) to improve the health/nutrition standards of the rural families
through improved extension services to rural women. These would help increase agricultural
production, primarily sorghum, maize, potatoes, wheat, pulses, fruits, vegetables, coffee, meat, and
milk in the project area, thus contributing to efficient import substitution, accompanied by
improvement in the standard of living of the rural population.
1.2          To achieve these objectives, the project included nine components for: (i) regional
agricultural extension service; (ii) rural development for women; (iii) regional veterinary service; (iv)
tree nursery development; (v) provision of fertilizer; (vi) support to CACB; (vii) irrigation
development; (viii) establishment of regional O&M service; and (ix) technical assistance and training.
1.3          The project's objectives were well chosen, in line with GOY's national development
objectives and priorities, and represented an appropriate follow-up to SURDP I and SURDP II. The
project design reflected balanced objectives of increased and sustainable agricultural production and
farmers incomes; optimum use and conservation of natural resources (particularly land and water);
and an enhanced role of women in agricultural and rural development in the Southern Highlands of
the ROY.  It also endeavored to involve the private sector in selected aspects of agricultural
development (e.g., nursery development and expansion and veterinary services). Various relevant
and realistic risk elements were recognized in the SAR, and some were compensated for by TA.
The project's objectives, however, were ambitious and demanding on national managerial capacity.
2. Achievement of Objectives
Physical Objectives
2.1          The following is a summary of the project's achievement of the physical objectives
classified by project component:



2                                        Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
(i)    Regional Agricultural Extension Service
2.2           The main physical achievements under this component were substantial and included
improvement of crop production through increases in yield; introduction of farmers to improved
technology (equipment and mechanization); proper use of crop chemicals (the project procured and
distributed 11.5 tons of agro-chemicals which contributed to the increase in crop yields as given in
Appendix C, para 4); introduction of green fodder crops (e.g., Elephant Grass); and, introduction
of farmers to seasonal and medium-term credit which further contributed to increased production.
The planned physical targets at appraisal have also been achieved and in some cases exceeded the
set targets. Under this component, an overall coverage of 118,000 ha and 107,300 farmers were
reached through the T&V system (compared to 120,000 ha and 66,000 farmers at appraisal).
Completion of civil works (block and extension centers) reached 122%; technical assistance was
110%; and training outside of Yemen reached 230%.
2.3           The impact of the component at the farm level could have been improved if it had not
been hampered by a number of constraints particularly insufficient logistical support to field and
technical staff. The main contributing factors were shortages and/or delays in recurrent counterpart
funding which resulted in shortages of fuel for vehicles, late or non-payment of field allowances,
and, late or non-arrival of field inputs. Delays were also encountered in the delivery of motorcycles
for the extension staff. Procurement procedures had also contributed to the delays in arrival of
equipment.
(ii) Rural Development for Women (RDW)
2.4           The achievement under this component was substantial. The decision to recruit and
train female extension agents to work specifically with women on a pilot basis was highly successful.
A total of 19 rural women centers, which are used for training and extension have been or are in the
process of being constructed, compared to 9 envisaged in the SAR. Of these centers, ten were
completed at the time of the ICR mission, site selection and design for three in Ibb Governorate were
underway, 3 were under construction and 3 buildings were donated as centers by local communities.
Of the 27 female extension workers envisaged at appraisal, all are in place and more will be
recruited as more centers are completed. The success of this component has been mainly due to the
strong support and active participation of the rural communities, the sound cooperation with staff
from Ibb and Taiz Governorates working in extension, horticulture, animal health, forestry, rural
information, health and education component included the introduction of new field crop technologies
to women (mainly in fruit and vegetable production); promotion of forestry and fuelwood planting;
advice and supply of veterinary information and products (women are responsible for the small
ruminants); increasing the awareness of the need for preparing balanced and nutritious meals;
introduction of home income generating activities (sewing, handicrafts, jam making), use of labor
saving devices (gas ovens); and adult literacy classes. The contribution of the Rural Water Supply
component to rehabilitating and/or renewing over 100 village water supply schemes had a very
positive impact on rural women by enabling them to devote more of their time to creative activities.
The RDW component's positive impact is likely to continue beyond the closure of the project due
to the strong support and ownership by the local communities and Government, in addition to the
continuing interest by donor institutions for future support. IFAD has agreed to Government's
request to extend the Closing Date of its loan to the end of 1996 to assist the project in its efforts
to improve overall component management and finalize equipping women extension workers with
needed skills.



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                   3
(iii) Regional Veterinary Service
2.5          This service was to be strengthened and expanded to cover all of the Southern Region
focussing on sheep pox and rinderpest vaccinations and treatment for control of internal and external
parasites.  During implementation, these activities were achieved and expanded to include
construction of a veterinary clinic in Ibb Governorate, procurement of veterinary drugs, and external
training of veterinary staff. The implementation of this component has been closely integrated with
the livestock activities of the rural development for women component. The costs of medicines for
animal treatment have been recovered (at a subsidized rate) from livestock owners. Although
increased involvement of the private sector in the provision of these services had not been envisaged
as an objective at appraisal, this component established the basis for development of private sector
activities. The achievement under the component has been considerable. Follow-up projects should
address the issue of further privatization.
(iv) Tree Nursery Development
2.6          The SAR envisaged the expansion of the two existing nurseries at Ibb and Warazan
and the establishment of a new nursery at Yarim in lbb Governorate (specializing in deciduous tree
production). The two established nurseries were expanded under the project with a new pump
station, irrigation and shade netting area. However, due to difficulties in obtaining land at Yarim
and the Government's policy of not crowding out the private sector, the proposal for the new nursery
was cancelled. In general, this component was successful in expanding production at the two
existing nurseries with seedlings produced having exceeded the 275,000 stipulated at appraisal.
However, during the last three years of project implementation when recurrent budgets were
constrained, adequate research and coordination between research and tree nurseries could not be
maintained, thereby affecting generic quality of some of the seedling material. The achievement
under the component has been satisfactory.
(v) Provision of Fertilizer
2.7           The SAR proposed financing for the purchase of 7,000 tons of phosphate and 1,400
tons of potash to meet the incremental demand for fertilizer, resulting from the more effective and
vigorous demonstration to farmers of improved technology through the field extension program.
Actual amounts purchased were 1,900 tons of urea, potash and phosphate using IDA funds. A bid
for procurement of 6,400 tons was cancelled due to late advertising of the tender and reduction in
the IDA funding. However, in November 1995, arrangements were made to transfer funds from the
IDA-funded Emergency Recovery Project (Cr. 2258-YEM) to procure about 2,000 tons of fertilizer
for the project. Further quantities were made available to the project area from Government stocks
secured through bilateral assistance. On the positive side, as envisaged in the SAR, the private
sector contributed towards filling the gap between the inadequate supply and the rapidly expanding
demand for fertilizer in the Southern Region. The achievement under the component has therefore
been partial.
(vi) Support to CACB
2.8          To meet the anticipated increasing demand for credit arising from farmers adopting
improved practices, provision was made for the establishment of two new sub-branches and provision
of vehicles. These sub-branches have been constructed after being considerably expanded (320%
compared to the specifications laid down in the SAR) as a result of joint proposals submitted by



4                                        Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
SRADP and CACB and agreed with IDA. Four vehicles have been supplied as stipulated at
appraisal. The establishment of the two centers has increased access of some farmers to credit for
the first time. The achievement under the component has been satisfactory.
(vii) Irrigation Development
2.9           The SAR stipulated that the irrigation components aims to: (a) increase irrigation
efficiency by establishing 22 demonstration farms for purposes of extension and training; (b)
feasibility studies for and rehabilitation of six existing small irrigation schemes and small dams
(implementation financed from Swiss Grant) thereby increasing the availability of surface water for
irrigation of about 350 ha; and (c) studying the feasibility of constructing a dam on Wadi Bana.
2.10         The main achievement under the component included the establishment of twelve
demonstration farms (with sprinkler and drip irrigation covering two ha of orchards) and training
farmers. Ten portable (hand moved) irrigation sets to cover four ha each were also procured after
clearance with IDA, for field crops and supplementary irrigation for rainfed crops. Following the
feasibility study of the rehabilitation of six existing dykes, the project modified the terms of reference
and commenced detailed designs for four viable schemes. Two of these schemes were to rehabilitate
and improve existing schemes (Al Amirah and Bab Al Sud) and two were new schemes (Damum and
Al Khalifah). The addition of the two new sites further expanded the scope and the area where use
of land and water resources were optimized as called for by the project. Feasibility studies for ten
small irrigation schemes have been completed. The implementation of the component has, however,
been delayed due to factors beyond the control of the project. While the achievements under
demonstration/pilot units and planning of small dams and associated irrigation schemes have been
substantial, the construction of new and rehabilitation of existing schemes has proceeded much more
slowly than anticipated at appraisal. Although all outstanding works on the small schemes will be
completed under Swiss financing in 1996, the current achievements of this component is partial. The
Wadi Bana Dam was studied at preliminary stage, however, detailed design stage was not
implemented due to unsuitability of site and strong opposition by the local community.
(viii) Regional Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
2.11         The objectives of this component in the SAR were to maintain existing buildings and
equipment (provided under the earlier and present projects) and to provide technical assistance to the
Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCD), covering O&M of irrigation and domestic
water supply schemes. To this end, a Water Supply Scheme Unit (WSSU) was created in 1989 to
assist the LCCDs and the Water Committees formed by the beneficiaries to become more effective
and sustainable. These objectives were subsequently expanded with the addition of SDC funds to
rehabilitate and maintain existing rural water supply schemes. This change in emphasis was
introduced to address problems encountered with the wells drilled under the first two projects (many
of which had dried up due to insufficient recharge of aquifers), broken pumps and lack of
distribution systems. These difficulties were beyond both the technical and funding capacity of the
rural communities. Despite these difficulties, the component's achievement in providing rural water
supply schemes to isolated communities where existing supplies were either limited or absent has
been substantial and will have a very positive socio-economic impact on stabilizing the rural
communities and improving their living conditions. The considerable but unquantifiable benefits of
the support given by the project to over 100 rural water schemes (serving about 500 villages and
270,000 inhabitants) in the project area have not been included in the project's economic analysis.



Sowlhern Regionial Agricultural Development Project                                    5
There is considerable capacity to expand this program, provided that the issue of organization of
water users in these communities and provision of funds for maintenance of existing schemes can
be settled before the number of schemes is increased. The establishment of a Regional Development
Authority or similar institutional structure, capable of providing the necessary technical backstopping
to water users, is also a basic necessity for any expansion to ensure sustainability.
(ix) Technical Assistance and Training
2.12         Achievement under this component has been substantial. A new training center was
constructed at Taiz (completed in 1992) and has provided over 3,000 days of training for over 720
trainees. The comprehensive TA program provided substantial support and technical advice to the
project staff. However, sufficient expatriate TA was not available to support setting up of an
effective M&E system that builds on existing practices and national capacity. A national coordinator
was trained to fill this gap, but the training was too late to be effective. To meet this challenge, the
SDC and IFAD components are being modified to allow financing local training and TA programs
since both agencies have agreed to extend their financial assistance through 1996.
Financial and Economic Objectives
2.13         The economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 16% during appraisal. At
project completion, the ERR has been estimated at about 14%. Assumptions and basis for the
financial and economic analysis are given in Appendix C. A major determinant of the result is the
assumption made for agricultural development in the "without project" situation, which, for the
purpose of the analysis, has been conservatively assumed to continue growing at a rate of 2 % during
the first 15 years of the project. In the "with project" situation, incremental agricultural benefits
have been assumed to start five years after project commencement and to have reached full
development in Year 15. The re-estimated ERR is slightly lower than that calculated at appraisal,
particularly due to external factors that affected project implementation (para. 17, Appendix C).
Switching value analysis (Table 12) indicates that the ERR would be 12% (the opportunity cost of
capital) for a reduction of 12.3%  in benefits or an increase in cost of 14.0%.  Furthermore,
sensitivity analysis (Table 11) indicates that for a reduction in benefits of 10% and an increase in cost
of 10% occurring simultaneously, the ERR would be marginally lower than 12%.
3. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Subject to Government and Project Management Control
3.1          The main external and internal factors that were beyond the reasonable control of the
Government and represented substantial challenges to project implementation included:
-     The Gulf war which contributed to a national slowing down of economic
activities and regional disruptions;
-     The resettlement and creation of new employment opportunities required for
the Yemeni workers returning unexpectedly from neighboring oil-exporting
countries following the Gulf war;
-     The first national elections held in April 1993 which diverted project staff to
assist with election duties rather than carrying out project activities;



6                                        Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
The reduction in the purchasing power of the Yemeni Rial due to rapidly
increasing inflation rates eventually leading to currency devaluations;
The delays caused by the civil disturbances; and
-     The long period of drought during the early years of project implementation.
Factors Subject to Government Control
Project Start-Up
3.2           The SRADP followed two earlier projects (SURDP I and 11), both of which were
rated as satisfactory. Project start-up has benefited from this earlier work which had helped set in
place physical and institutional infrastructure, and trained personnel.  The availability of the
infrastructure and trained staff has facilitated the launching of the project and assisted in securing its
main objectives.
Project Management
3.3          Project management also benefitted from following on the SURDP I and II. The
Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU), established in 1976 had already developed
considerable managerial expertise, had autonomous status and was assisted by a coordinating
committee, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF and, subsequently known as
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources MAWR), for liaison with other ministries and agencies.
Since the project was intended to continue a pattern of devolved development in the two governorates
of Taiz and Ibb, it appears that project management could have been assisted by the establishment
of a Project Steering Committee with high level representation of the administration of both Taiz and
Ibb. This could have ensured effective coordination of project activities in the two governorates,
provided a forum for resolution of difficulties between line department staff in the governorates and
the SURDU and simplified and assisted the task of project management. The training and technical
assistance financed by the project have successfully strengthened the competence of project
management. The SRADP Director General was changed twice in the first two and a half years of
the project, but thereafter, continuity improved with a total of four DGs appointed over the eight and
a half year project implementation period.
Research and Extension Linkage
3.4          A major constraint was the lack of strong linkage between research and extension.
Limited funds for adaptive research prevented the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA, later
known as Agricultural Research and Extension Authority, AREA) from contributing effectively to
the identification of suitable technology, selection of improved varieties, and provision of a
backstopping or problem solving role for the extension staff. Since funding to support adaptive
agricultural research was planned under other development projects in the Region, the SAR did not
include allowance for funding research activities under the project. But, due to certain generic
problems in AREA as well as lack of research funding and TA secured under other sources, limited
adaptive research was carried out and a strong two-way linkage between farmers, extension staff and
research officers was not adequately established.



Southern Regional Agricultural Developmnent Project                                    7
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.5          It was anticipated at appraisal that the project would include monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) of: (a) project inputs; (b) impact of the extension service on adoption of specific
recommendations by farmers and rural development for women; and (c) status of surface and
groundwater resources. However, due to a number of constraints including limited national capacity
in M&E and the need for intensive training in this field (para. 15); staff shortages; limited mobility;
and inadequate operating budget, the main focus of M&E has been on (a) above, with less than
adequate coverage of (b) and (c).
4. Project Sustainability
4.1          The SAR envisaged a long-term life span for the project's future operation and
sustainability (30 years). Achieving this longer-term objective, however, faces certain challenges
including the following: (a) the GOY budget constraints could result in further reduction in
Government's funding of future recurrent costs; (b) the need for an improved institutional and
coordination mechanism to maximize the benefits from human and physical infrastructure developed
under the project as well as under earlier phases; and (c) the need to introduce measures to enhance
the complementarity between the project's future operations and other relevant agricultural and rural
development projects in the Southern region.
4.2           To meet these challenges, the following measures were proposed by SRADP and
MAWR, and thoroughly discussed with various supervision missions and the ICR mission: (a)
improving collection and retention of a proportion of project's revenues from selected activities (e.g..
veterinary services and nurseries) by the regional Government authority for partial funding of future
recurrent costs, and thus initiating cost sharing practices; (b) encouraging further private sector
involvement in the commercial development of certain project operations (e.g., imports of
agricultural inputs and their domestic trade, nursery management, and veterinary services); and (c)
carefully examining the possibility of establishing a Regional Development Authority for the Southern
Region with the objective of maximizing the utilization of trained staff and acquired assets on a
continuous basis.
4.3           The Regional Development Authority would take charge and ensure continuity of
services provided by the successful extension and rural women component of the project, in addition
to the agricultural offices in Taiz and Ibb. In addition, the Authority would also take charge of the
very beneficial rural water supply component which has rehabilitated water supply schemes for over
100 locations and whose benefits although not easily quantifiable nevertheless make a major impact
on sustainability of agriculture and rural development. The Authority could also coordinate and
supervise the activities of agricultural and rural development projects in the Region, e.g., the IDA-
financed Land and Water Conservation Project in Taiz and Ibb; the Rural Feeder Roads and
Agricultural Support Services Project - YEM/91/C06 - financed by UNCDF and UNDP; and the
Innovation Development in the Agricultural Sector Project (IDAS) funded by GTZ in collaboration
with AREA.
4.4           This coordinating role should aim at enhancing the complementarity and integrative
nature of these projects in achieving sustainable agricultural development in the Region. The
considerable positive achievements of the project makes it likely to be sustainable. In addition, the
extension of the IFAD loan and the SDC grant through 1996 should further build the base for
sustainability. Finally, the on-going work under the IDA-financed Land and Water Conservation



8                                          Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Project is highly complementary to the project's objectives and will, therefore, ensure continuity of
activities in the SRADP and consequently further contribute to project sustainability. These ongoing
activities will continue to be implemented by SRADP in addition to other actions and activities which
are being seriously considered, by Government, for implementation by it, since it is the MAWR's
only implementation agency, with a well-established critical mass, in the region. The continuation
of these activities will ensure the necessary external and local funding for SRADP which will assist
in the establishment of improved institutional and coordination mechanisms in addition to sectoral
coordination and securing adequate operational budgets for the activities established under the project
(Part I, para 4. 1 and 4.2).
5. IDA Performance
5.1           The IDA's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory and in line with GOY national development objectives and priorities. In particular, the
project was a timely and appropriate follow-up to SURDP I and 11. The project design included a
balanced set of objectives and activities aiming at the achievement of sustainable agricultural
development where agricultural productivity would be substantially increased while conserving the
natural resource base. However, with the benefit of hindsight, the following improvements in project
design could have been considered: (a) the inclusion of a project steering cornmittee to assist SRADP
in maintaining effective coordination between the two governorates and full collaboration of
government agencies in each (para 3.3); (b) forging closer links between extension and research
activities among the complementary agricultural development projects in the region (in the case of
this project, despite enhanced adaptive research work funded under other projects, the linkage was
weak -- in practice collaboration follows the flow of funds (para 3.4); and (c) giving greater
emphasis to encouraging private sector involvement, in particular in inputs trade and animal health.
5.2           The IDA's procedures in relation to project implementation were favorable (e.g., the
project completion date was extended twice and procurements were expeditiously cleared). Initially,
the project was assisted by an IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and requests for reimbursement
were generally expedited in a timely manner.
5.3           The IDA's performance in project supervision was highly satisfactory. The number
of supervision missions (17) fielded in response to different needs at various stages of project
implementation was adequate (Table 13). In addition, a number of IDA staff visits to review
progress and follow-up project activities were also carried out. Most missions incorporated well
balanced specialized staff skills (Table 13); and included representatives from other cofinancing
agencies (IFAD and SDC) as well as members of the national management team. There was
continuity among missions in terms of follow-up in relation to critical issues, recommendations and
plans of action. Mission reporting was comprehensive and provided rigorous analysis of project's
progress and difficulties, recognized important issues and constraints, and proposed pragmatic
solutions. In particular, the supervision and review missions worked closely with the national
management team and concerned GOY officials in addressing key issues affecting project
performance and directing their efforts towards facilitating project implementation.  The good
coordination and cooperation between the supervision team and the cofinancing partners in SDC and
IFAD contributed to the smooth flow of project procurements and disbursements. In particular, the
participation of representatives from SDC and IFAD on supervision missions was very conducive
to a continuous dialogue between donors, project and Government. The national team has made a
positive and constructive contribution to the supervision and review missions; while the IDA staff



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                         9
were cognizant of the national political, economic and social conditions in the country and their
impact on project implementation.
6. Borrower Performance
6.1           Due to the negative external and internal factors that were beyond the Governmient's
control, which represented serious challenges to project implementation, the GOY performance in
project implemiienitation was mixed, ranging from highly satisfactory to less than satisfactory. To
illustrate, project management was highly satisfactory and managers and staff were motivated and
performed their duties under difficult conditions. However, Government's performance regarding
recurrent budget allocations was less than satisfactory in the last three years of the project. At
appraisal, the Government was expected to contribute around 28% of project costs. The expenditure
by Government is around 24% of total project costs at credit closing, which is roughly in line with
the original commiiitmiient. Presently, funds are limited for agricultural extension activities, but this
is partly due to the return of the extension service to tlle Regional Agricultural Offices in Taiz and
lbb in the middle of the finanicial year. To improve the forthcoming national counterpart funding.
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources has initiated intensive contacts with the Ministry
of Finanice to ensure that local recurrent budget to the project will be doubled in 1996 and beyond.
6.2           Governmienit's procedures for procurement involved review and authorization by
several officials at different levels at MAWR, MPD and the High Tender Committee. This
frequently resulted in delays and prevented timely project implementation. Following suggestions
by a number of IDA supervision missions, and the annual Sector Project Portfolio Review (SPPR)
carried out by IDA in the last three years of the project, procurement procedures have substantially
improved during the later years of project implementation.
6.3           The Government coordination of the project could have been improved both between
the two governorates and between agricultural extension and agricultural research services. The
Government coordination of the donors' (IDA, SDC and IFAD) activities, however, was satisfactory
and had a positive impact on project's performance and supervision. The decisions of SDC and
[FAD to extend their grant and loan assistance for one year should also help the water supply,
irrigation schemes, and RDW activities to be brought to an orderly conclusion and at the same time
ensure that additional achievements (to those envisaged at SAR) will help to extend project's benefits
to an even wider segment of beneficiaries.
6.4           With few  exceptions such as not establishing a third nursery (para 2.6), the
Government has comnplied satisfactorily with the legal covenants and requirements as specified in the
Development Credit Agreement (Table 10).
7. Assessment of Outcome
7.1           The overall project impact has been satisfactory.  The project has succeeded in
developing institutional capability, both to implement development projects in the two governorates
as well as to provide services to farmers and rural communities.  The project has also been
successful in providing the necessary infrastructure (buildings and transport) for the extension
service. tie RDW program and drinking and irrigation water supply in rural areas. The program
of training has been largely completed.  The project has succeeded in the establishment of I I
demonstration farms (2 ha each) using localized irrigation systems in addition to procurement of IU
portable demonstration sprinkler irrigation equipment for arable crops and supplementary irrigation



10                                       Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
of rainfed areas. In addition, ten feasibility studies and four with detailed engineering for the small
irrigation schemes were completed. The program of studies, rehabilitation and new construction of
a number of small pilot irrigation schemes has, however, proceeded more slowly than anticipated
at appraisal and is being finalized during the one-year extension granted by SDC. The Government
has also complied satisfactorily with the legal covenants (para 6.4).
8. Future Operations
8.1          Although a formal plan for the project's future operation has not been drawn up by
the management team, future activities are planned and some have already been initiated especially
under the extended operation of the Swiss Grant and the IFAD loan, through 1996.
8.2          As regards the institutional aspects of the project's future operation, the possibility
of establishing a Regional Development Authority is being considered (para. 23). Meanwhile, the
last IDA supervision mission (Nov. 1995) has urged the MAWR and the Project Management to
carry out a study to determine the most appropriate institutional and organizational arrangements
needed for SRADP and the Taiz and lbb agricultural offices to ensure that the available trained
personnel and assets (provided under the project) continue to play an active role in the Region's
agricultural and rural development. In addition, the Government of ROY is also considering the
possibility of bringing the Rural Feeder Roads and Agricultural Support Services Project
(YEM/91/C06) financed by UNCDF and UNDP under SRADP Management. Other projects: the
ongoing IDA-financed Land and Water Conservation Project which is a national project with a
substantial component in the Taiz and Ibb Governorates and which is administered by an
Implementation Unit (IU) within SRADP and the "Innovation Development in the Agricultural
Sector" (funded by GTZ in collaboration with AREA) are complementary to SRADP and are actually
coordinating their activities with SRADP extension and RDW components. The joint future
operations under these projects should, therefore, highly benefit farmers in the Region and enhance
their drive towards sustainable regional agricultural and rural development.
9. Key Lessons Learned
9.1          The following are the main lessons learned:
(a)    The timely availability of adequate recurrent, local operational budget is vital
for the long-term  sustainability of the project.  The expected level of
contribution to recurrent budget by Government towards the overall project
costs should reflect the ability and capacity of the Government to realistically
meet those commitments during project implementation and beyond;
(b)    Effective management of complex projects (e.g., involving a number of
components, locations/regions, and partners in development) requires an
efficient regional coordination mechanism (e.g., regional development
authority or similar institution) to ensure optimum integration of project
components, appropriate sequencing of project activities, and effective
harmonization of project implementation and operations of various services;
(c)   In the case where agricultural extension is supported under a particular
agricultural development project while adaptive research is assisted under



Souttlhern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                      11
other complementary projects, there is a need to set up and implement a
pragmatic mechanism to forge effective and close links between extension and
research activities under the concerned projects;
(d)    The development and adoption of M&E systems should build on existing
practices and take into account the national capacity and training needs to
enable local operation and management of the systems;
(e)    Institutional arrangements to guarantee the sustainability of services and
infrastructure created under the project should be agreed at appraisal;
(f)    The importance of creating viable water user associations and farmers'
organizations should be an objective of such projects. Furthermore, an action
plan should be agreed at appraisal to ensure the functioning of such
participatory institutions early in the project cycle; and
(g)    The benefits of close and coordinated working relationship with other
cofinanciers of the project. In the case where IDA administers components
financed by other donors, the participation of representatives of these donors
on supervision missions is very conducive to the establishment of an active
and continuous dialogue between Cofinanciers, Project Management and
Government (para 5.3).



12                                         Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1772-YAR)
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:    Summary of Assessments
Table  2:    Related IDA Credits
Table  3:    Project Timetable
Table  4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table  5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table  6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table  7:    Studies included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table  9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    IDA Resources: Missions



Southiern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                                     13
Table 1: Sutnmary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objeciives                    Substantial         Partial        Negligible      Not Applicable
(O                (OW)()
Macro policies                                  Z          EI [E
Sector policies                                               LI                [E7               Eii
Financial objectives                                          IZI
Institutional development                    FE                                 E-                E ]i
Physical objectives                                            El               E-]               [I
Poverty reduction                           EZ                 E7               FZ                E]
Gender issues                                P-]              FJ                F]                [-]
Other social objectives                      EI                LII               i                FI
Environmental objectives                     F ]                                E ]               Fl
Public sector managenment                    E                                                        ] E   E
Private sector development                   E                 E                  Z                   l
Other (specify)                              E]               E-                El                F]
B. Project sustainabillty                        Likl             Unlikely        Uncertain
Highly
C. IDA performance                            satisfactorv      Satisfactory      Deficient
(T           (e       ~      ~~ (16
Identification                                 U                                E -]
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                                   E H
Supervision                                 [ED                 0               [0
Highly
D. Borrower performance                       satisfactory       Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                 
Covenant compliance                           E                E                 E
Operation (if applicable)                    EJ               El                F ]
Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                     Highly          Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactorv
satisfactory        (S)                  ()                   (5)
C El l    E]                             E



14                                             Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                             Purpose                     Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Wadi Hadramaut Agricultural     To build up infrastructure and institutions, carry   1976   Closed
Development Project (WHADP) I out pilot developments in area of the follow-up
(Cr. 615-YDR)                   WHADP 11.
2. Tihama Agricultural Development To provide irrigation, village water supplies,  1978   Closed
Project 11 (Cr. 805-YAR)       extension, sand dune stabilization, infrastructure
and development of State farms for agricultural
development in Wadi Rima.
3. Tihama Agricultural Development To increase agricultural production in Wadi    1979   Closed
Project III (Cr. 880-YAR)       MAWR by effectively using spate flows and
helping recharge the aquifer; strengthening
agricultural support services (research, extension
credit), building feeder roads, and providing
potable water to rural poor.
4. Tihama Development Project IV   To support the Second Agricultural             1980   Closed
(Cr. 978-YAR)                   Development in Wadi Rima through provision
of surface irrigation in the form of permanent
diversion structures.
5. Wadi Hadramaut Agricultural     To increase agricultural production, raise farmer   1983   Closed
Development Project II         incomes, correct falling water table via use of
(Cr. 1346-YDR)                  deep-lying aquifers, provide farm machinery and
technical assistance.
6. Central Highlands Agricultural    To improve farm incomes through production   1984   Closed
Development Project            and productivity increases, provide potable
(CR. 1453-YAR)                  water.
7. Agricultural Research and       To strengthen agricultural research and        1985   Closed
Extension Project (Cr. 1557-   extension capacity in Central Highlands,
YDR)                           Tropical Lowlands, Southern Uplands regions.
cont'd/2



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                15
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                             Purpose                     Year of    Status
Approval
Following Operations
8. Southern Regional Agricultural    To increase agricultural productivity and farmer   1987   On-going
Development Project            income in Southern Region through
(Cr. 1772-YAR)                  strengthening agricultural services in extension,
credit and input supplies, assist O&M of project
infrastructure and water, raise technical
capability of staff, provide assistance to women
farmers.
9. Northern regional Agricultural    To improve agricultural productivity through:  1988   On-going
Development Project            (i) improved agricultural services, (ii) better
(Cr. 1886-YAR)                  land management, (iii) improved irrigation and
agricultural practices and improved
health/nutrition, establish regional extension and
O&M to ensure sustainability
10. Eastern Region Agricultural   To provide extension and research services,    1989   On-going
Development Project            irrigation management, institution building to
(Cr. 1983-YAR)                 improve agricultural productivity and farmer
incomes in Marib Governorate, particularly area
around Marib Dam.
11. Wadi Hadramaut Agricultural    To follow up on WHADP 11 with intention of    1989   On-going
Development Project III        expanding irrigated area.
(Cr. 2045-YDR)
12. Agricultural Sector Management  To create within MAWR the management basis    1992   On-going
Support Project                for modern agricultural sector, and to strengthen
(Cr. 2299-YEM)                 agricultural research. Also to improve general
operations of MAWR.
13. Land and Water Conservation   To begin a national program to gain control    1992   On-going
Project (Cr. 2373-YEM)         over land and water resources.



16                                                    Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
F  D-ate IActual/
Steps in Project Cycle                             Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                            Nov. 1984              Dec. 1984
Preparation                                                           Feb. 1986              Feb./March 1986
Appraisal                                                             April/May 1986         April 16, 1986
Negotiations                                                                                 Feb. 17-20, 1987
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                          ------                 -----
Board presentation                                                    Jan. 1987              March 31, 1987
Signing                                                               ------                 July 17, 1987
Effectiveness                                                         Sept. 15, 1987         June 2, 1988
Midterm  review (if applicable) a/------
Project completion                                                    March 31, 1994         Dec. 31, 1995
Loan closing                                                          June 30, 1994 t'       Dec. 31, 1995
a/  No mid-term review was planned; instead comprehensive and sufficient number of IDA supervision/review missions were fielded
(see Table 13).
-   Closing date was extended from June 30, 1994 to June 30. 1995 and then from June 30. 1995 to Dec. 31, 1995 in response to GOY's
requests for extension.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Thousands)
FY 87 I FY 88 IFY 89 FY 9OIFY 91lFY 92IFY 93IFY 941 FY 95   FY96
Appraisal estimate          0.2       0.7    2.1    5.8    9.4   11.3   12.1   12.3 a' (12.3) h'(12.3) b'
Actual                       -       0.39    1.86   2.56   3.95   5.79  7.03   7.89    8.91    10.13 c'
Actual as % of estimate    -        56      89      44      42     51       58      64        72        83
Date of final disbursement - Feb. 15, 1996.
In 1995 the amount of US3.0 million was cancelled from IDA credit following the recommendations of the Country Portfolio Performance
Review agreed upon by IDA and the Government of ROY.
b'  Appraisal estimates were provided only up to FY1994.
c Estimated total IDA disbursement is US$10.25 million by April 1996.



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/President's                    Estitnated                          Actual
Report
1.  Appointment of key agriculturalist       31 S/Y ^' to be appointed 8/93 25 SlY; 8/93 dl
2.  Appointment of engineer                  15 S/Y; in 1988               11.5 S/Y: 01/92 f 
experts/associate experts                                                                                l
3.  Consultants, Phase I                     25 S/M h'; in 1987           25 S/M; 1988/89
Consultants, Phase II                   30 S/M; in 1987               -                                  l
Rural development for women             3 S; in 1988                  3 S; 1991 '
(T.A.)
4.  National staff: WID                      6 S/Y; in 1988               5.25 S/Y F
5.  National staff                           81 S/Y incremental; in 1988   145 S/Y total, 3/89 2l
6.  WAPCOS consultants to submit             Deadline 12/1988              Reports submitted 12/89
reports
7.  Establish liaison with research          1988                         4/89 1'
8.  Foreign training (No. of staff)          264 S/M; 9/1988              462 S/M, substantially completed
9.  Local training (sessions) construction   25 S; 9/89                   25 S/9/91 on-going
10. Information and training center          I                             1: completed
11. Block centers                            3                            61'
12. Extension centers                        30                            11 numerous small and scattered
extension centers replaced by fewer
larger block centers which are more
easily operated. Total area
increased from 2,600 sq. m. to
4,212 sq. m.
13. Short-term training (foreign)            20 S/Y                       187 S/M F
14. Irrigation demonstration farms           22; 1988                     12; 8/92 m'/
15. Construction: WID component              9; 1989                      19; 1991 n/
16. M&E (establishment of units)            2; 1988                       2; 3/89 "
17. O&M (establishment of a unit)            1; 1988                      1; 6/89
18. Procurement of vehicles (No.)            87; 1988                     86; 6/89
19. Procurement of motorcycles (No.)         140                          140
20. Various equipments                       140 units                    25%
21. Procurement of fertilizer                7,000 tons phosphate and      1,900 tons urea, potash and
1,400 tons of potash         phosphate; 6,400 tons were
cancelled; but in 1995 arrangement
made to procure 2,000 tons of
fertilizer. t'
22. No. of farmers covered by extension      135,000                       107,332
services
23. No. of farmers directly contacted        35,550                       34,590
through extension service meetings
etc.                                                                                                     l



18                                                    Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/President's                    Estimated                           Actual
Report
24. Nursery - seedling production:
Fruits                                  70,000 citrus in Ibb          73,000 9'
. Coffee                                                             90,700 9'
. Ornamental/afforestation                                            7,854 rI
25. Establishing new nursery in Yarim        1                             0                                  l
(Ibb Governorate)
. Expanding existing nurseries at       2                             2 " 
lbb and Warazan
26. Demonstration - orchards                 20                            37
27. Animal immunization                      16,000; 1991                  38,000; 1991 y
Sheep pox                               36,000; 1991                  94,804; 1991
Notes
- S/Y = Staffyear
S/M  = Staffmonth
' S = Staff member
Chief expatriate technical advisor has been appointed
' Chief engineer has been appointed; other staff in position
Contract signed Dec. 1994
E One expatriate expert served for several years on project; and two associates are currently working on projectctivities
' Female staffing for a successful WID component
Adequate national staff recruited
i' Some activities were initiated, e.g. monthly meetings were held between extension and AREA staff, research staff visited
fields at demonstration sites to provide technical advice as needed
' 6 block centers completed (4 in Taiz and 2 in IBB); another block-center was planned for construction in Ibb but was later
cancelled in view of budgetary constraint.
16 S/M are on their way to training overseas
m/ Project acquiring 10 portable sprinkler demonstration units (4 ha each) in addition to the 12 static demonstration farms
ni 10 centers completed; sites selection and designs for further 3 centers are underway in Ibb; 3 centers under construction; and
3 buildings have been contributed as centers by local communities
2' One unit in Taiz and another in Ibb
P' Actual amounts purchased were 1,900 tons of urea, potash and phosphate using IDA funds, a further 6,400 tons were
cancelled due to a combination of later advertising of the tender and reduction in IDA funding; in November 1995, however,
arrangements were made to transfer funding from other IDA-funded emergency recovery projects in ROY to procure about
2,000 tons of fertilizer for the project
9' 1993 production
Including 13,811 seedlings in 1992
The two established nurseries were expanded under the project; but due to difficulties in obtaining land at Yarim and not to
compete with the private sector, the SAR proposal for a new nursery was cancelled
Y Including 12,858 heads of cattle rinderpest of cattle treated for various diseases (ongoing)



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
L. Key operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report                         Estimated                                 Actual
Not applicable.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study               Appraisal/redefrned             Status                    Impact of Study
Design for 6 small irrigation   Dam rehabilitation     Several reports were          Studies findings have led to
schemes including               and construction of    completed; the final is due    modifications/improvement in
rehabilitation of small ancient    small irrigation   to be completed by end        the original design of small
dams. During implementation,   schemes to improve    December 1995.                 irrigation schemes. The
the number of small irrigation    agricultural                                       studies findings will be also
schemes to be studied was       irrigation; and                                      used to guide the design of
increased from 6 to 10.         channel excess water                                new dykes, dams and small
for livestock                                       irrigation schemes after
production.                                         project completion.



20                                         Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/latest
Item                          (US$M)           Estimate (US$M)
Local Foreign
Costs  Costs   Total          Total
A. Regional Services
Extension                              3.18     5.68     8.86          9.04
Rural development for women            1.17     1.66     2.83          1.96
Veterinary                             0.35     0.30     0.65          1.48
Operation and maintenance              2.33     2.95     5.28          6.29
Sub-total Regional Services    7.03    10.59    17.62          18.77
B. Nursery Development                  0.22     0.50     0.72           1.12
C. Fertilizer                           0.07      1.48     1.55         0.53
D. CACB                                 0.15     0.18     0.33          0.17
E. Irrigation Development                1.01    2.07     3.08           1.14
Total Baseline Cost                     8.48    14.82    23.30         21.73
Physical Contingencies                  0.58     1.10     1.68
Price Contingencies                     2.18     1.35     3.53
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      11.24    17.27    28.51        21.73



Southertn Regionial Agricultural Development Project                                           21
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest
Source                                                   Estimate (US$M)
Total
Local    Foreign
Costs     Costs       Total
IBRD/IDA                                   2.6       9.7        12.3            10.25 a'
Cofinancing institutions                   1.5       4.3         5.8             4.80
SDC
Other external sources                     0.5       2.0         2.5             1.68
IFAD
Domestic conitribution                     6.6       1.3         7.9             5.00
GOY
T'OTAI.                                 11.2       17.3        28.5            21.73
In 1995 the amiounLt ot US$3 (J nillitin was caancelled fronm the IDA credit (see footnote to Table 4 above)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at 16% during appraisal. At project completion
the ERR has been estimated at about 14%. Assumptions and basis for the financial and economic
analysis are given in Appendix C. A major determinant of the result is the assumption made for
agricultural development in the without project situation; which for the purpose of the analysis has
been conservatively assumed to continue growing at a rate of 2% during the first 15 years of the
project. In the with project situation incremental agricultural benefits have been assumed to start five
years after project commencement and to have reached full development in Year 15. The re-
estimated ERR using conservative assumptions, and although marginally lower than that calculated at
appraisal, continues to show the project to be viable, although several unquantifiable social and
economic benefits have not been included such as the benefits from operation, maintenance and
provision of rural water supply schemes, or the benefits from the four small pilot irrigation schemes
(to be completed in 1996) with a total command area of about 250 ha. Sensitivity analysis for
reduced benefits of 10% give ERR of 12.4% and for increased cost of 10% give ERR of 12.5% with
ERR falling marginally below 12 % (II. I%) if both these conditions occur.



22                                                             Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Present     Present    Original       Revised
Agreement         Section          Covenant      Status   Fuldilment  Fulfdilment  Description of Covenant                Comtments
Type                     Date          Date
1. Credit      Sch. 2 Part A-l       5: 10          C        Continuing  Continuing    Construction and             In compliance. Small
rehabilitation of Agric.   scattered centers were
Extension Centers a        replaced by blolk centers
due to difficulty of logistics
& sustainability of large
number of scattered centers.
Total area was, however,
increased from 2.600m2 to
4,212 m2 within the same
budget.
2. Credit      Sch. 2 Part A-2       5;10          CD        Continuing  Continuing    Provision of vehicles and   Mostly completed with some
equipment.                   delay.
. Credit     Sch. 2 Part A-3        5; 4           C       Continuing  Continuing    Recruitment of local        In compliance.
staff.
Credit      Sch. 2 Part A-4        5:10          CP       Continuing  Continuing    Formulation and adoption    Complied with partially.
of operational procedures
to ensure stronger linkag
with research.
8. Credit      Sch. 2 Part A-5       5;10           C        Continuing  Continuing   Training of agric.            In compliance.
extension staff.
6.Credit      Sch. 2 Part B-I       5: 10          C        Continuing  Continuing    Construction of extension   In compliance.
training center and rural
information unit in Taiz.
7. Credit      Sch.2 Part B-2        5; 10          C        Continuing  Continuing    Formulation of extension    In compliance.
program for women
including recruitment of
female extension agents.  _______________
Credit      Sch. 2 Part B-3        5:10o         CP       Continuing  Continuing    Procurement of tools.        Complied with partially.
I                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vehicles and fumiture.
9.Credit      Sch. 2 Part B-4       5: 10          C                                   Conduct baseline study      In compliance.
on socio-economic
conditions of rural
women.



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                               23
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Present     Present    Original      Revised
Agreement         Section         Covenant    Status   Ftidriment  Fuirillment   Description of Covenant                Conmments
Type                     Date         Date
10. Credit    Sch. 2 Part B-5       5; 10          C       Continuing  Continuing    Training of extension       In compliance with.
l_______I c                            agents.
11 Credit    Sch. 2 Part C (a)       5: 10         C        Continuing  Continuing    Provide material and        In compliance.
equipment for veterinary
se rv ices.
12. Credit    Sch 2 Part C (b)     5: 1(0; 4       C        Conttnuing  Conttnuing    Staff recruitment for       In compliance.
veterinary services.
13 Credit    Sch. 2 Part D (a)    5: 10: 4         C                                  Rearrange lbb nursery to    Completed.
specialize in citrus
production.
14. Credit    Sch. 2 Part D (b)    5. 10: 4        C                                  Expand Warazan nursery  Completed.
with additiinal capacity
in coffee, bananas and
other tropical fruits.
15 Credit    Sch. 2 Part D (c)    5: 1(: 4        NC                                  Establish a new nursery    Due to increased activity of
at Yarini, lbh            private sector nurseries in
Governorate to specialize  the past few years, it was
in deciduous plants.      thought
that establishment of a
Govemment nursery could
be counterproductive.
16. Credit     Sch 2 Part E         5: 1()        CP       Continuing  Continuing    Provision of about 7,000   Procurement completed and
tons of phosphate and     distributed for first batch.
about 1,400 tons of       Outstanding 6,500 tons
potash.                   were cancelled due to delays
in utilization of allocated
funds and cancellation of
US$3.0 from the credit.
however, in Nov. 1995
arrangements were made to
transfer funds from IDA-
funded emergency projects
in ROY to procure 2,000
tons of fertilizer.
17. Credit      Sch. 2 Part F       5; 10         CD                    1995          Establish CACB branch    Two branch offices are
offices.                  expected to have been
completed by end of Dec.
1995.



24                                                           Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Present     Present    Original      Revised
Agreement         Section        Covenant    Status   Fulfillment  Fufillrment  Description of Covenant               Commnents
Type                    Date         Date
18. Credit      Sch.2 Part F        5; 10         C        1988        6/1989        Provide transport.        Four vehicles given to
CACB. as stipulated at
appraisal.
19. Credit     Sch. 2 Part G        5; 10        CD        1988        8/1992        Install irrigation        Completed after delay.
demonstration sites.
0. Credit    Sch. 2 Part G.2       5;10         CD                    1995          Rehabilitate/construction    Award for Al-Amirah
of about 6 small          Scheme (designs and bidding
irrigation schemes.       documents prepared in-house
by SRADP) cleared by
IDA, and contract signed in
March 1995. Consultant
WAPCOS commenced work
in Dec. 1994 to prepare
studies for small irrigation
schemes. Currently work
progressing on a further
three small dams and related
small irrigation schemes due
to be completed in 1996.
The total command areas of
these four small schemes is
about 250 ha
1. Credit   Sch. 2 Part G-3 (a)    5; 10         C                                  Identify altemative site    In compliance.
for construction of an
irrigation dam in Wadi
Bana.



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                                   25
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Present      Present    Original       Revised
Agreement          Section         Covenant       Status   Fuirdliment  Fulfillment   Description of Covenant               Comments
Type                     Date          Date
2. Credit   Sch. 2 Part G03 (b)      5; 10         CD                                   Conduct feasibility study   Wadi Bana Dam study
for Wadi Bana's dam.       cancelled by SRADP; and
replaced by studies for
alternative small irrigation
schemes. Consultant's
assessment indicated difficult
geological fault at the
identified location for the
Wadi Bana Dam. In
addition, much opposition
was encountered from local
communities to the
construction of such a large
dam. The negative social an
environmental consequences,
in addition to thle technical
problems prompted the
Project Management to
postpone implementation.
32. Credit      Sch. 2 Pan H          5: 10          C        n.a.         n.a.          Construction of              In compliance.
(O&M) H-a                                                               buildings.
24. Credit    Sch. 2 Part H-b        5: 10          C        n.a.         n.a.           Provision of equipment,    In compliance.
vehicles and machinery.
5. Credit    Sch. 2 Part H-c         5: 10          C        n.a.         n.a.          Train staff on O&M  of       In compliance.
l___________    __________                            irrigation   schemes.
26. Credit     Sch. 2 Part H-d        5;10           C        n.a.         n.a.          Assistance to extension      In compliance.
service in the
implementation of on-
farm irrigation works.
7. Credit      Sch. 2 Part 1         4; 10          C      n.a.         n.a.            Provision of short- and      Funds provided by CACB
long-term credit to
farmers through CACB.



26                                                          Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Present     Present    Original    Revised
Agreement        Section         Covenant    Status   Fulfillnent  Fulfrilment  Description of Covenant             Comments
Type                    Date         Date
8. Credit  Sch. 2 Part J (T.A.)    5;10          C       n.a.        n.a.          Provision of technical     In compliance.
assistance.
9. Credit    Sch. 4 Part A-1       5; 10         C                                 Assign SURDU as            In compliance.
complementing Agency.
0. Credit    Sch. 4 Part A-2     5; 10; 4        C     n.a.          n.a.          Provision of land for      In compliance.
construction works under
the project.
1. Credit   Sch. 4 Part A-3 (a)   5; 10         C        n.a.       .a.           Coordination with          In compliance.
CACB.
2. Credit   Sch. 4 Part A-3 (b)   5; 10: 4      C        n.a.        n.a.          Ensure availability to    In compliance.
CACB of funds to cover
credit needs in project
area.
3. Credit   Sch. 4 Part A-4 (a)   5; 10         C                                 Procure fertilizer by      In compliance.
SURDU.
4. Credit   Sch. 4 Part A-4 (b)   5; 10         C        n.a.        n.a.          Facilitate imports of     In compliance.
fertilizer by the private
sector by announcing
available foreign
exchange; and simplify
imports procedures.
35. Credit   Sch. 4 Part A-5 (a)    5; 10        C        Dec. 1987                 Transfer responsibility of   In compliance.
Livestock Section to
SURDU.
6. Credit   Sch. 4 Part A-5 (b)   6: 5; 10      C        n.a.        n.a.          Ensure safe transport,    In compliance.
storage and use of
fertilizer and pesticides.
7. Credit   Sch. 4 Part A-5 (c)     10          C        April 1988               Submit to IDA a detailed   In compliance.
I___I ___ I_  I__________  training    program.   I



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                                 27
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Present     Present    Original       Revised
Agreement         Section         Covenant       Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment   Description of Covenant              Comments
Type                     Date         Date
8. Credit     Sch. 4 Part A-6         13           C                                   Assessment of riparian     Wadi Bana scheme has been
rights of Wadi Bana Dam   replaced by small irrigation
on other state no longer    schemes by SRADP.
relevant, after unity of
YAR and PDRY.
39. Credit    Sch. 4 Part B - a     5/ 10 /9        C        n.a.         n.a.          Submit quarterly reports    In compliance.
to IDA on progress in
l________ _________________ ___________ _________ __________ ___________ project_Implementation. __________p_ojec_mpemnttin
0. Credit    Sch. 4 Part B - b     9; 5: 10        C        April 1988                 Establish M&E system.       In compliance.
1. Credit    Sch. 4 Part B - c     9: 5: 10       CP       n.a.         n.a.          Annually evaluate            Complied with partially.
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~________________________    agricultural extension.
n.a. = not applicable.
Covenant Types                                                                         Present Status
I. Accounts/audit                                                                C    =   Covenant complied with
2. Financial performance/operating revenue from beneficiaries                    CD   =   Complied with after delay
3. Flow and utilization of project funds                                         CP  =   Complied with partially
4. Counterpart funds                                                             NC  =   Not complied with
5. Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring. review and reporting
10. Implementation
[I. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sector or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Sector policy conditionality: administrative change
14. Sector policy conditionality: regulatory change



28                                            Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
-       |  ~~Describe and comment on Lack of
l        ~~~Statement Number and Title           |Compliancel
No deviation from applicable operational manual statements observed.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                Revised                  Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle       Weeks       US$        Weeks        US$         Weeks    '000 US$
Through appraisal                                                         13.2
Appraisal-Board                                                           58.3
Board-effectiveness                                                        1.8
Supervision                                                              107.1
Completion
TOTAL                                                                  213.5



Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                          29
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
Specialized       Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/Year Nunber of   Days in    Staff Skills   I                                 Types of
Persons      Field    represented   Implementation Development Problers  '
Status t'    Objectives Pobest
Through appraisal           2-3/86 1        6          126      A, E, F, AE,
H, IE
4-5/86 f       5           90      A, IE, E, WD
Appraisal through Board      1-2/87         1           16            A
approval
Supervision
I dX                       8-9/87        3           15           A,E             HS             HS
2                           4188          3          42           A, IE            S              S            F,S
3                           10/88         3           30        A, E, PL           S              S        S, F, T, PR
4                           2/89          2           4           A.E              S              S         S. F, ME
5                           6/89          4          64        A, PL, E,H          S              S            S,F
6                           12/89         3           30         A, E, H           S              S        S, T, F, PR
7                           6/90          5          50       A, E, H, WD,         S              S        F, PR, S, T
ME
8                            3/91          I           6            A               S              S       F, PR, S, T
8-9/91        3           24        A, H, WA            S              S        S, F, P, T,
__ __ _ __ _ __ _   _ _ __ _  _ __ _   ___   _PR,  CO
10                           2/92          5           30       IE, A. E, H,        S              S        D, S, F. P,
WA                                          CO
II                           8192          5           35      IE, E, A, WA         S              S         F, S, CW.
ME. RE. I
12d'                         1/93          6           30     IE, A, WD, H          S              S          F, P, T
13d                          7193          5           50        IE, A, H           S              S        ER, F, TR.
CO. S
14                          3-4/94         5           70        IE, A, H           S              S         F, T. O.
ME, 1
15                           11/94         2           16         IE, A             S              S        F, CO, CD
16 d'                        4/95          2           6           IE, H            S              S            F,I
17 E'                        11/95         4           28     IE, E, H, WD          S              S        F, ER, T, I
Completion                  11-12/95       3           24          E, A
A = Agriculturist; E = Economist, IE = Irrigation Engineer; LO = Loan Officer; PS = Procurement Specialist;
AE = Agricultural Extension Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; OA = Operations Advisor; ME = Monitoring and Evaluation;
WD = Women in Development Specialist; WA = Water Distribution Expert; H = Hydrologist; PL = Planning Specialist;
F = Forester
HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory
S = Staff recruitment; CW  = Civil Works; F = Financial (recurrent counterpart funding); T = Transport; M = Management;
TA = Technical Assistance; P = Procurement delays; ME = Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation System; I = Institutional;
CD = Civil Disturbance leading to Delays in Implementation; CO = Coordination; 0 = Operational Difficulties; ER = Exchange
Rate; TR = Training; RE = Research and Extension Messages; D = Drought; PR = Procedures
Review missions
Completed form 590 not available
Preparation mission
Al      Appraisal mission



- 30 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOUIHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1772-YAR)
Appendices
Appendix A.           Aide-Memoire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
Mission
Appendix B.            Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.           Notes on Financial and Economic Analysis



- 31 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1772-YAR)
Aide-Memoire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Mission
APPENDIX A



- 32 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1772-YAR)
Aide-Memoire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program Mission
A. Introduction
1.           A mission4 from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program visited the Republic of
Yemen from November 23 to December 11, 1995 to prepare Implementation Completion Reports
(ICRs) for the above mentioned project as well as the Northern Regional Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 1886 - YAR). This document is the Aide-Memoire for the former project. The timing
of the mission coincided with the IDA supervision mission led by Mr. Nejdet Al-Salihi, the project's
Task Manager and included Mr.Tijan Sallah (Economist, IDA), Mr. Elias Kassis (Consultant, SDC),
and Ms. R. Asmar (Consultant, IFAD).
2.           The mission worked in close collaboration with the Director General and the staff of
the project. Field visits were made to several project locations in Taiz and Ibb Governorates. The
mission is especially grateful to H.E. the Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR)
who received the mission and stressed the Government's high priority attached to the project's
sustainability and follow-up activities. The mission is also grateful to Mr. Hamoud M. Al-Rubaidi,
Director General of the project and his staff for their views and insights; assistance in gathering and
discussing the necessary information and data; and organizing successful field visits. The mission
also wishes to thank Dr. Salih Faragh, project consultant and staff at the Regional Office of the
MAWR for their substantial support and assistance. Significant contribution to the mission's work
has been also made by the MAWR in Sana'a, Taiz and Ibb Governorates; and the mission is
particularly grateful to Messrs. Abdul Malik Al-Thawr, Director, Agricultural Planning Division,
Mohamed Adbal Barri, Agricultural Planning Division, MAWR, Sana'a, and Youssef Al-Mauhiad,
Deputy Director of Agriculture, MAWR, Taiz, for their assistance to the mission not only in
technical aspects but also logistically. Preliminary impressions and findings of the mission are
presented below and are subject to modification following detailed analysis.
B. Background
Funding
3.           The Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project was prepared in March
1986, appraised in April 1986, and presented to IDA's Board on March 31, 1987. Subsequently,
an IDA credit consisting of SDR 9.8 million (US$12.3 million) was signed on July 17, 1987; and
became effective on June 2, 1988. The IDA credit to be disbursed over seven years, covered about
44 % of the total project costs. According to the project Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the
41  Consisting of Messrs. F.K.Bishay (Mission Leader, Economist), J.H.Weatherhogg (Agricultural Economist), and
l.H.Newton (Agronomist, Consultant)



- 33 -
remainder was to be financed by a loan to be obtained from the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) for SDR 2.0 million (US$2.5 million), a grant from the Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC) for Swiss Francs 10.0 million (US$5.8 million); in addition to the GOY's
contribution of US$7.9 million equivalent. The actual disbursements for project implementation
were: IDA, US$9.7 million; IFAD, US$1.6 million; SDC, US$4.2 million; and GOY US$5.0
million. In 1995, the amount of US$3.0 million was cancelled from the IDA credit following the
recomnrnendations of the Country Portfolio Performance Review agreed upon by the IDA and the
Government in May 1995.
Objectives
4.           The main objectives of the project were: (a) to increase agricultural productivity and
incomes of farmers, including those of the low rainfall (400-500 mm) areas of the region by means
of improved agricultural services; improved utilization of land and water resources; and special
assistance to women farmers; and (b) to improve the health/nutrition standards of the rural families
through improved extension services to rural women.  This would help increase agricultural
production, primarily sorghum, maize, potatoes, wheat, pulses, fruits, vegetables, coffee, meat, and
milk in the project area, thus contributing to efficient import substitution, accompanied by
improvement in the standard of living of the rural population.
Components
5.           The project included nine components for: (a) regional agricultural extension service;
(b) rural development for women; (c) regional veterinary service; (d) tree nursery development; (e)
provision of fertilizer; (fl support to CACB; (g) irrigation development; (h) establishment of regional
O&M service; and (i) technical assistance and training.
C. Implementation Experience and Results
Project Start-Up
6.           The SRADP followed two earlier projects (SURDP I and II). Project startup has
benefitted from the earlier work. In particular, certain physical and human infrastructures were
available and facilitated launching main project activities.
Achievements by Component
7.           The SRADP had nine components; the objectives, performance and achievements of
each are reviewed below.
(a) Regional Agricultural Extension Service
8.           The main objectives of this component were to establish an agricultural extension
service in each Governorate with direct responsibility for all extension activities. SRADP would
implement the program and would develop the extension services of the Governorates to take over
all project responsibilities at project completion. The service would have a single line of authority
and would incorporate strict planning, clear accountability, proper monitoring and evaluation, staff
training, technical support and, strong and effective coordination with research.



- 34 -
9.           The planned physical targets at appraisal have been satisfactorily achieved and in some
cases exceeded the set targets. Under this component, an overall coverage of 118,000 ha and
107,300 farmers were reached through the T&V system. Completion of civil works (block and
extension centers) reached 122%; technical assistance was 110%; and training outside of Yemen
reached 230%. The overall physical progress was 115% of SAR targets. The main achievements
under the component included: improvement of crop production through increases in yield;
introduction of farmers to improved technology (equipment and mechanization); proper use of crop
chemicals (the project procured and distributed 11.5 tons of agro-chemicals); introduction of green
fodder crops (e.g., Elephant Grass); and, introduction of farmers to seasonal and medium term
credit.
10.          The impact of the component at the farm level, however, was mixed and hampered
by a number of constraints particularly insufficient logistical support to field and technical staff. The
main contributing factor was shortages and/or delays in recurrent counterpart funding which resulted
in delays to the procurement of transport (in particular, the late arrival of 140 motorcycles for field
extension staff); shortages of fuel for vehicles; late or non-payment of field allowances; and, late or
non-arrival of field inputs. Procurement procedures, however, were carefully reviewed during
supervision missions and most of the constraints to procurement were overcome.
1i.          A major difficulty in project implementation was the lack of adequate funds for
adaptive research which prevented the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA, later known as
Agricultural Research and Extension Authority, AREA) from contributing effectively to the
identification of suitable technology, selection of improved varieties, and provision of a backstopping
or problem solving role to the extension staff and farmers. Since funding to support adaptive
agricultural research was planned under other agricultural development projects in the Region, the
SAR did not include allowance for funding research activities under the project. However, due to
certain generic problems in the staffing and physical infrastructure of AREA as well as lack of
research funding and TA secured under other sources, limited effective research work was carried
out and a strong two-way linkage between farmers, extension staff and research was not adequately
established.
(b) Rural Development for Women
12.          This component focussed on developing rural activities for women in the fields of
agriculture and home economics. The implementation of this component was highly successful. The
decision to recruit and train female extension agents to work specifically with women on a pilot basis
was innovative. A total of 19 rural women centers have been or are in the process of being
constructed (compared to 9 envisaged in the SAR) of which three were donated by local
communities. The success of this component has been due to the strong level of support and active
participation of the rural communities combined with good cooperation with staff from Ibb and Taiz
Governorates working in extension, horticulture, animal health, forestry, rural information, health,
and education. The main achievements under this component included the introduction of new field
crop technologies to women (mainly in fruit and vegetable production); promotion of forestry and
fuelwood planting; advice and supply of veterinary information and products (women are responsible
for the small ruminants); increasing the awareness of the need for preparing balanced and nutritious
meals; introduction of home income generating activities (e.g., sewing, handicrafts, jam making),
use of labor saving devices (e.g., gas ovens); and adult literacy classes. The mission feels that the
impact of this component was substantial and will continue to increase well beyond the closure of
the project.



- 35 -
(c) Regional Veterinary Service
13.          This service was to be strengthened and expanded to cover all of the Southern Region
focussing on sheep pox and rinderpest vaccinations and treatments for control of internal and external
parasites.  During implementation, these activities were expanded to include construction of a
veterinary clinic in Ibb, procurement of veterinary drugs, and external training of veterinary staff.
This component has been implemented successfully and closely integrated with the livestock activities
of the rural development for women component. Although the costs of medicines for animal
treatment have been recovered (at a subsidized rate) from livestock owners, the private sector has
not yet assumed the major role in the provision of these services to the extent envisaged in the SAR.
(d) Tree Nursery Development
14.          The SAR envisaged the expansion of the two existing nurseries at Ibb and Warazan
and the establishment of a new nursery at Yarim in Ibb Governorate (specializing in deciduous tree
production). The two established nurseries were expanded under the project with a new pump
station, irrigation and shade netting area. Due to difficulties in obtaining land at Yarim and with the
Government's view not to compete with the private sector, the proposal for the new nursery was
cancelled. In general, this component was successful in expanding production at the two existing
nurseries (reaching 83 % of SAR proposals). However, the component has not established a realistic
cost recovery system in preparedness for transfer to the private sector; and with limited linkage
between the nurseries and research, the genetic quality of some of the seedling material is weak.
(e) Provision of Fertilizer
15.          The objective of this component was to meet the incremental demand for fertilizer
resulting from the more effective and vigorous demonstration to farmers of improved technology
through the field extension program. The SAR proposed finance for the purchase of 7,000 tons of
phosphate and 1,400 tons of potash over the life of the project. Actual amounts purchased were
1,900 tons of urea, potash and phosphate using IDA funds, a further 6,400 tons were cancelled due
to a combination of late advertising of the tender and reduction in the IDA funding. However, in
November 1995, arrangements were made to transfer funding from other IDA-funded emergency
recovery projects in ROY to procure about 2,000 tons of fertilizer for the project. Further quantities
were made available to the project area from Government stocks secured through bilateral assistance
of other donor countries. The project also envisaged that the private sector would positively
contribute towards filling the gap between the relatively stagnant supply and the rapidly expanding
demand for fertilizer in the Southern Region.
(f) Support to CACB
16.          To meet the anticipated demand for credit arising from farmers adopting improved
practices, provision was made for the establishment of two new sub-branches and provision of
vehicles in the extreme eastern and western parts of SRADP. These sub-branches are currently
under construction and have been considerably expanded (320% compared to the specifications laid
down in the SAR) as jointly proposed by SRADP and CACB, and agreed with IDA. Completion
is expected by the end of December 1995. Two vehicles have been supplied.



- 36 -
(g) Irrigation Development
17.          The SAR objectives of this component were to increase irrigation efficiency by means
of establishing irrigation farms to be used for farmer training, to rehabilitate existing schemes
including some small dams, and to study the feasibility of constructing a dam on Wadi Bana. The
funding of this component was to be split between IDA and SDC. The twelve demonstration farms
have been satisfactorily established (with sprinkler and drip irrigation covering two ha) and farmers
have been trained. Portable (hand moved) irrigation sets to cover 4 ha have been purchased and are
awaiting clearance at the port. Following the first stage study of the rehabilitation of six existing
dykes, the project modified the terms of reference and commnenced Stage II studies for four schemes.
Two of these schemes were to rehabilitate and improve existing schemes and two were new schemes;
thus, expanding the project's objective to optimize use of water resources since many new suitable
sites were identified. More specifically, the present program includes two rehabilitation schemes (Al
Amirah and Bab Al Sud) now under construction, one new scheme (Damum) also under construction
and a further new scheme (Al Khalfah) is expected to be completed during the extension of the SDC
grant (to December 1996). In addition, several smaller schemes were added to the rural water
supply component. The component has, however, been delayed due to reduction in recurrent
financial allocation and lack of stream gauging data.
(h) Regional Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
1 8.         The objectives of this component in the SAR were to maintain existing buildings and
equipment, provided under the earlier and present projects, and to provide technical assistance to the
LCCD  covering O&M  of irrigation and domestic supply schemes.  These objectives were
subsequently expanded with the addition of SDC funds to rehabilitate and maintain existing rural
water supply schemes as well as to reconstruct new schemes. This change in emphasis was
introduced in recognition of problems encountered with the wells drilled under the first two projects,
many of which had dried up due to insufficient recharge of aquifers, pumps had broken down and
distribution systems were lacking. These difficulties were beyond both the technical and funding
capacity of the rural communities. Despite these difficulties, the component has been successful in
providing rural water supply schemes to isolated communities where existing supplies were either
limited or absent. There is considerable capacity to expand this program, provided that the issue of
organization of the water users in these communities and provision of funds for the maintenance of
the existing schemes can be settled before the number of schemes is increased.
(i) Technical Assistance and Training
19.          The main objective of this component was the provision of 58 staff years of TA in
the fields of agricultural extension, rural development for women, veterinary support, irrigation
improvement, and O&M services. The TA was to assist national staff in the overall planning,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of activities with emphasis placed on the training of
national staff, so as to enable a smooth and competent transfer of project activities to the
governorates of Taiz and Ibb. The training would be both overseas and local. In general, this
component was successfully implemented. A new training center was constructed at Taiz (completed
in 1992) and has provided over 3,000 days of training for over 720 trainees. The comprehensive
TA program provided substantial support and technical advice to the project staff.  However,
insufficient expatriate TA was available to support setting up of effective M&E programs to monitor,
in particular, the extension and irrigation components. A national coordinator was trained to fill this
gap, but the training was too late to be effective.  Local training was affected by recurrent
counterpart budget constraints combined with lack of provision for foreign financing. To meet these



- 37 -
challenges, the SDC and IFAD components are being modified to allow financing further local
training and TA programs during the extension phase through 1996.
Project Management
20.          Project management benefitted from following on the SURDP I and II. The SURDU,
established in 1976 had already developed considerable managerial expertise, had autonomous status
and was assisted by a coordinating committee, chaired by the Minister, MAF (and subsequently
MAWR), for liaison with other ministries and agencies. Since the project was intended to continue
a pattern of devolved development in the two governorates of Taiz and Ibb, it appears to the mission
that project management could have been assisted by the establishment of a Project Steering
Committee with high level representation of the administration of both Taiz and Ibb. This could
have ensured effective coordination of project activities in the two governorates, provided a forum
for resolution of difficulties between line department staff in the governorates and the SURDU and
could have generally simplified and assisted the task of project management. The training and
technical assistance financed by the project have successfully strengthened the competence of project
management. The SURDU Director General was changed twice in the first two and a half years of
the project, but thereafter continuity improved with a total of four DGs appointed over the eight and
a half year project implementation period.
Supervision and Review Missions
21.          The number of the IDA's supervision missions fielded in response to different needs
at various stages of project implementation was sufficient. In addition, a number of IDA staff visits
to review progress and follow-up project activities were also carried out. Most missions incorporated
well-balanced specialized staff skills; and included representatives from other cofinancing agencies
(IFAD and SDC) as well as members of the national management team.
22.          In general, there was continuity among missions in terms of follow-up in relation to
critical issues, recommendations and plans of action. Mission reporting was comprehensive and
provided rigorous analysis of project's progress and difficulties, recognized important issues and
constraints and proposed pragmatic solutions. In particular, the supervision and review missions
worked closely with the national management team and concerned GOY officials in addressing key
issues affecting project performance and directing their efforts towards facilitating project
implementation.  The national team has made a positive and constructive contribution to the
supervision and review missions; while the IDA staff were cognizant of the national political,
economic and social conditions in the country and their impact on project implementation.
Overall Project Impact
23.          The overall project impact has been positive in developing institutional capability,
both to implement development projects in the two governorates as well as to provide services to
farmers and rural communities. The project has also been successful in providing the necessary
infrastructure (buildings and transport) for the extension service, the RDW program and drinking and
irrigation water supply in rural areas. The program of training has been largely completed. The
program of studies, rehabilitation and new construction of a number of small pilot irrigation schemes
has, however, proceeded more slowly than anticipated at appraisal and is being finalized during the
one-year extension granted by SDC.



- 38 -
24.          At appraisal, it was anticipated that the project would include monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) of: (a) project inputs; (b) impact of the extension service in adoption of specific
recommendations by farmers and rural development for women; and (c) status of surface and
groundwater resources. However, due to a number of constraints including staff shortages, lack
of mobility, inadequate operating budget and external factors, the main focus of M&E has been on
(a) above, with less than adequate coverage of (b) and (c). While the project actions to develop
extension support are largely complete and agriculture, veterinary and RDW services all stronger,
at this stage, it is only possible to make a provisional assessment of their eventual impact on
agricultural production and rural incomes. The progress of the RDW activities appears particularly
promising and both animal health and assistance to farmers in increasing plantings of fruit, coffee
and vegetables are successful aspects. However, the full impact of the services has been constrained
by lack of relevant messages for transmission to farmers as a result of limited linkage between
agricultural research and extension, as well as constraints to local operating budget. With continued
support to provide adequate operating budget for extension and improvement in extension messages,
benefits as a result of the project should be substantial. To this end, the Minister of Agriculture and
Water Resources has initiated intensive contacts with the Ministry of Finance to ensure that local
recurrent budget to project activities will be doubled in 1996 and beyond.
Borrower and IDA Performance
Project Design
25.           The overall project aims, scope and dimensions were well chosen, in line with
Government's national development objectives and an appropriate follow-up to SURDP I and II.
With the benefit of hindsight the main aspects in which design could have been improved included
the following: (a) the inclusion of a project steering committee to assist SURDU in maintaining good
coordination between the two governorates and full collaboration of government agencies in each;
(b) the need for complementary agricultural development projects in the region to forge close links
between extension and research activities - in the case of this project despite enhanced adaptive
research work funded under other projects the linkage was weak - in practice collaboration follows
the flow of funds; and (c) giving greater emphasis to encouraging private sector involvement, in
particular in inputs trade and animal health. Project design benefitted from a degree of flexibility
but this feature has also resulted in the components being rather loosely linked.
Flow of Funds
26.          Shortage of government recurrent budget releases has constrained activities in the last
three years of the project implementation period.  Presently, operating funds are limited for
agricultural extension activities, but this is the result of the return of the extension service to the
Regional Agricultural Offices in Taiz and Ibb in the middle of the financial year, and adequate
budget to meet operating costs is expected to become available from the start of 1996 (in January).
Due to the appreciation of the SDR, Swiss Franc and US$ against the Yemeni Rial, funding of
foreign exchange costs was more than adequate and proved to be in excess of the project's absorptive
capacity, given the conditions prevailing during implementation. Accordingly, US$3.0 million of
the IDA credit was cancelled in May 1995. Operation of the project's Special Account was generally
satisfactory throughout implementation. Freezing of the project accounts by the local administration
in 1993 resulted in certain difficulties for project implementation; but was overcome through
appropriate action by MAWR.
27.          At appraisal, Government was expected to contribute around 28% of project costs.
In the event expenditure by Government is expected to be around 24 % of total project costs at credit



- 39 -
closing, which is in line with the original commitment; although operating budget actually released
during the later years of the project has been significantly lower than planned. The Minister of
Agriculture and Water Resources' initiative to substantially increase the national recurrent counterpart
funding in 1996 and beyond (para 24) is commendable and should enhance the prospect of project
sustainability.
Procedures
28.          Government procedures for procurement involved review and authorization at a
number of levels by MAWR, MPD and the High Tender Committee. This frequently resulted in
delays and prevented timely project implementation. IDA's procedures have not been a constraint
to project implementation. As a matter of fact, the IDA's procedures were quite favorable to
effective project implementation (e.g., the project completion date was extended three times and
procurements were efficiently cleared).  Initially, the project was assisted by the IDA Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) and requests for reimbursement were generally submitted in a timely
manner.
Coordination and Sequencing
29.          Government coordination of the project could have been improved both between the
two governorates and between the agricultural extension and agricultural research services.
However, the Government's coordination between the donors (IDA, SDC and IFAD) was sound and
had a positive impact on the project's performance. Collaboration between the donors was also
satisfactory in supervision of the project; and the decisions of SDC and IFAD to extend their grant
and loan assistance for one year should help the water supply, irrigation schemes, and RDW
activities to be brought to an orderly conclusion; in part necessitated by the scope of activities and
number of beneficiaries being significantly expanded from the targets included in the SAR.
D. External Factors Affecting the Project
30.          The main external factors that represented  substantial challenge to project
implementation included:
(a)  The Gulf war which contributed to a national slowing down of economic
activities and regional disruptions;
(b)  The resettlement and creation of new employment opportunities required for
the Yemeni workers returning unexpectedly from neighboring oil-exporting
countries following the Gulf war;
(c)  The first national elections held in April 1993 which diverted project staff to
assist with election duties rather than carrying out project activities;
(d)  The reduction in the purchasing power of the Yemeni Rial due to rapidly
increasing inflation rates and leading to currency devaluations;
(e)  The delays caused by the civil disturbances; and
(f)   The long period of drought during the early years of project implementation.



- 40 -
E. Future Operations, Sustainability and Lessons Learned
Future Operations and Sustainability
31.          The SAR envisaged a long-term life span for the project's future operations and
sustainability (30 years). Achieving this longer-term objective, however, faces certain challenges
including the following: (a) the GOY economic restructuring and financial constraints could result
in further reduction of Government's funding of future recurrent costs needed to achieve
sustainability of project's activities; (b) the need for an improved institutional and coordination
mechanism to maximize the benefits from human and physical infrastructure developed under the
project as well as under earlier phases; and (c) the need to introduce measures to enhance the
complementarity between the project's future operations and other relevant agricultural and rural
development projects in the Southern region.
32.          To meet these challenges, the following measures were proposed by SRADP and
MAWR; and thoroughly discussed with various supervision missions and the ICR mission: (a)
improving collection and retention of a proportion of project's revenues from selected activities (e.g.,
veterinary services and nurseries) by the regional Government authority for partial funding of future
recurrent costs; (b) encouraging further private sector involvement in the commercial development
of certain project operations (e.g., imports of agricultural inputs and their domestic trade, nursery
management, and veterinary services); and (c) carefully examining the possibility of establishing a
Regional Development Authority for the Southern Region with the objective of maximizing the
utilization of trained staff and acquired assets on a continuous basis. The Authority could coordinate
and supervise the activities of agricultural and rural development projects in the region, e.g., the
IDA-financed Land and Water Conservation Project in Taiz and Ibb; the Rural Feeder Roads and
Agricultural Support Services Project - YEM/91/C06 - financed by UNCDF and UNDP; and the
Innovation Development in the Agricultural Sector Project (IDAS) funded by GTZ in collaboration
with AREA. This coordinating role should aim at enhancing the complementarity and integrative
nature among these projects in achieving sustainable agricultural development in the Region.
Finally, the extension of the IFAD loan and the SDC grant through 1996 should further improve
project sustainability.
Lessons Learned
33.          The following are the main lessons learned:
-    The development and utilization of an efficient and workable monitoring and
evaluation system is an essential prerequisite for effective project
implementation. The development and adoption of M&E systems should build
on existing practices and take into account the national capacity to accept
changes.
-    The expected level of contribution to recurrent budget by Governnent
towards the overall project costs should reflect the ability and capacity of the
Government to realistically meet those commitments during project
implementation and beyond.
-    Cost recovery, revolving funds, effective utilization of national technical and
managerial capacity developed during the project life, active participation of
the private sector, and flow of counterpart recurrent funding beyond project
completion are essential conditions for sustainability.  Government and



- 41 -
partners in development should, therefore, ensure the fulfillment of these
conditions for project sustainability.
For effective management of complex projects (e.g., involving a number of
components, locations/regions, and partners in development) an efficient
regional coordination mechanism (e.g., regional development authority or
similar institution) is needed to ensure optimum integration of project
components, appropriate sequencing of project activities, and effective
harmonization of project implementation and operations of agricultural services.
To ensure that extension staff have relevant messages to pass on to farmers, it
is essential that adaptive research is supported with an operating budget and
supplied with the necessary back-up (equipment, inputs and training).
The participation of farmers in the design of content and implementation of
both field demonstrations and training activities ensures that the technology
being promoted reflects the real needs of the farming community and leads to
high adoption rates.
F. Follow-up
34.          This report is a revised version of the Aide-Memoire that incorporates comments and
suggestions for amendment raised during discussion at the mission's wrap-up meeting held at
MAWR, Sana'a, on December 9, 1995.  SRADP has prepared a draft ICR, viewing the
implementation experience from the Borrower's perspective. A condensed version (of no more than
10 pages) is being prepared by SRADP, and will be incorporated as an Appendix to the final ICR
report in accordance with the IDA guidelines.



- 42 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1772-YAR)
Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
APPENDIX B



- 43 -
APPENDIX B
Summary of Implementation Completion Report
1.           The project was implemented in Taiz, and Ibb Governorates except the coastal area
belonging to the Tihama region. The population of the project area was about 5.0 million.
2.           Agriculture is the major profession in terms of economy and employment. Realizing
the importance of agricultural development, the Government of Republic of Yemen launched a
massive program to develop agriculture as a profitable and commercial proposition with the
assistance from several financing agencies. This project is the follow-up project of two earlier
projects of SURDP I & II.
Board Date         March 31, 1987
Effective Date     February 6, 1988
Closing Date
Original   :  June 30, 1994
Current:   :  December 31, 1995 for IDA Credit
December 31, 1996 for SDC grant & IFAD Loan
Source of Finance
3.           The main source of finance was IDA which contributed US$12.8 mil. (SDR 9.8 mil.).
In addition, Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) contributed US$5.8 mil. (Swiss Francs
10.0 mil.), IFAD US$2.6 mil. (SDR 2.0 mil.) and ROY Government US$7.9 mil. The project cost
totalled US$28.5 mil.
A. Statement/Evaluation:
(a)       Objectives. The main objectives of the project were:
(a)  to increase the agricultural productivity and the income of the farmers including
those in the low rainfull (400-500 mm) areas of the region through improved
agricultural services, better utilization of land and water resources and special
assistance to women farmers; and
(b)  to improve the nutrition/health standards of the rural families through improved
extension services to the rural women.
4.           Project components included: (1) regional agricultural extension  services;
(2) involvement of rural women in development; (3) regional veterinary services; (4) tree nursery
development; (5) provision of fertilizers and agro-chemicals; (6) support to CACB; (7) irrigation
development; and (8) establishment of regional O&M services and technical assistance and training.
(b)       Evaluation of objectives:
(1)  Regional Agricultural Extension Service. The main objectives were achieved
satisfactorily through T&V method and this achievement can be summnarized
as follows:



- 44 -
(a)  In addition to eight block centers and seventy-one extension centers
constructed during the previous phases of this project, six block centers
and seven extension centers were constructed during this phase of the
project. The block and extension centers were supported by SMS in
different subjects and extension agents.
(b)   Extension services were done by forming farmer groups and passing the
extension recommendations to other farmers through these groups and
by conducting evening meetings with the farmers at fortnight interval in
which farmers' doubts were clarified by the SMS.
(c)  In addition to the general increase in the average yields of crop, the
farmers in the project area were introduced to agricultural irnplements
and mechanization benefits. This was a major achievement leading to
socio-economic improvement in the following aspects:
-   Reduction in cost of cultivation;
-   Carrying out cultural practices at the appropriate time which
ensured insect and disease-free crops.
-   Increases in milk and meat production which in turn improved
nutrition and standard of living of the rural families;
-   Green fodder was introduced successfully through this project for
improving health and productivity of farm animals;
-   Farmers were encouraged and guided through extension services to
avail loan facilities from financial institutions to enable them to
adopt improved agricultural practices. The number of such loans
availed by farmers for agricultural operations under short-and
medium-categories has been increasing year-by-year.
(2)  Rural Women Development. The project paid more attention to the Rural
Women in Development Unit. Against nine envisaged at appraisal, 19 woman
centers have been constructed out of which three centers were donated by the
local people. These centers are assisted by women extension agents and
supervisors in agricultural and home economics activities. Two associate
experts at the Headquarters are coordinating the home economics activities and
the other supervising animal health activities. The rural women development
work was highly successful.
(3)  Regional Veterinary  Services. Though the project envisaged only to
strengthen the existing veterinary services by providing vehicles, equipment
and appointment of veterinarian expert, the project extended its objectives to
the following activities also during implementation:
(a)   Construction of veterinary clinic in Ibb;
(b)   Procurement of veterinary drugs; and
(c)   External training of veterinary staff.



- 45 -
(4)  Tree Nursery Development. As per the project appraisal, one new nursery
had to be established in Yarim besides strengthening the Warazan nursery in
Taiz. Due to difficulty in getting land and the proximity of Yarim to Damar
area nursery, the proposal for a new nursery at Yarim was not implemented.
(5)  Supply of fertilizers and agro-chemicals. Fertilizers to supply 1,900 tonnes
of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium were supplied through IDA and
2,486.48 tonnes were supplied to the project area from MAWR under
emergency project. The extension staff succeeded in convincing the farmers
to use phosphatic and potassic fertilizers to increase the yields and improve the
quality of the produces. Thirty-five tonnes of agro-chemicals were supplied to
protect the crops from insect pests and diseases. In fact, creation of awareness
among the farmers on the benefits or using fertilizers and agro-chemicals was
one of the major achievements of the project.
(6)  Support to CACB. The project supported the CACB by increasing the area
of their activity by constructing two sub-branch offices. The activities of the
CACB were explained in regional agricultural extension services.
(7)  Irrigation Development. The project has established 12 sprinkler and drip
irrigation demonstration farms each of two ha. Farmers were trained to adopt
modern irrigation techniques.
5.           Rehabilitation of existing dykes had been studied in the first stage by the consultants
for the six schemes. The structures had been designed based on hydrology. The project modified
the terms of reference and as per mission's advice commenced stage II studies for new schemiies
instead of rehabilitating existing schemes. Two schemes, namely, Al-Amirah and Ban Al Sud are
the rehabilitation schemes under construction. Construction of one new scheme (Damum) is already
in progress and another new scheme (Al Khalfah) is expected to be completed during the extended
period of SDC grant component up to December 1996.
6.           The project objective of irrigation development has been expanded to cover new
potential areas besides rehabilitating existing dykes as there are many areas suitable for new small
irrigation schemes. Due to some delays in implementation of irrigation schemes, some of the
allocated funds were diverted for operation and maintenance of water supply schemes. So, the six
schemes could not be implemented as originally envisaged.
B. Establishment of Regional O&M Services
7.           The project aimed the following objectives under regional O&M services:
(a)  Maintenance of building and equipment including those provided under SU RDP
I and II projects;
(b)  Technical assistance to the LCOD in the O&M of irrigation and water supply
schemes; and
(c)  Technical assistance to the extension services on design and implementation of
on-farm irrigation works.



- 46 -
8.            The investment cost provided in the project estimate included only buildings,
equipment, vehicles and technical assistance. During implementation, it was found that many wells
implemented under SURDUP I and II had dried up due to insufficient recharge of aquifer, and
pumps had gone out of order. They could not be repaired by the poor people. So, there was a
necessity to reallocate the SDC grant transferring some of the funds from other components, such
as irrigation, buildings, vehicles, equipment and machineries. This diversion, requested by the SDC
due to their priority to the rural water supply schemes, did not affect much the irrigation schemes
due to availability of funds from the appreciation of the Swiss Franc during the project period.
Summary of Achievements
-          Package of cultivation practices and technologies were transferred to the farmers
effectively through the extension staff;
-          Seedlings of high-yielding fruit crops were supplied to the poor farmers at very low
prices;
-          Fertilizers were supplied at rates lower than market prices;
-          Modern scientific techniques in farming were introduced;
-          Loan facilities with low rate of interest and easy recovery installments were arranged
to the rural poor;
-          Job opportunities to educated people were created;
-          Modern irrigation techniques were introduced by establishing irrigation demonstration
farms;
-          Social conditions of rural women folks were improved through RWID sections
activities;
-          Evening meetings were conducted with the farmers;
-          On-job training was given to the local staff and project beneficiaries with the help of
expatriate experts;
-          New dyke sites were studied to improve the irrigation facilities;
-          The first national election held in April, 1993 caused serious disruption in the project
work through interrupted local payments and diversion of project staff for election
duties;
-          The regional problems faced by the country due to Gulf war;
-          Unstable market prices due to inflation;
-          Resettlement and employment opportunities needed for Yemeni workers, who
returned from neighboring Gulf countries due to Gulf war;



- 47 -
Delay in procurement due to over-cautious practice of passing through several stages
of clearances followed up to mid-1995; and
National disturbances in the middle of 1994.
D. Project Sustainability
9.           As the SDC grant has been extended up to December 1996, the present project staff
will continue and follow up the project activities. However, for long-term sustainability of this
project it is preferable to attach similar future projects also with this, as this project is capable of
implementing development works more quickly and economically.
E. IDA Performance
10.          The performance of the IDA management and cofinanciers IFAD and SDC are highly
appreciable as they realized the necessity for extending the project several times in order to achieve
the project implementation target objectives. It is also worth mentioning the exemplary performance
of the supervision missions in diagnosing the problems and needs of the borrower/proper planning
and implementation of the objectives. IDA performance was highly successful because of the close
working relationship with the Government, the project and cofinanciers.
11.          IDA supervision team maintained close contact from the headquarters on a weekly
basis through phone/fax with the project authorities and leader of the advisory group, thus
maintaining a close coordination to overcome obstacles to the project implementation in addition to
the normal supervision mission visits - on an average twice a year.
F. Borrower Performance
12.          Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR) of the ROY Government
extended full cooperation for the implementation of the project successfully. The management skill
and staff competence strengthened by the staff training given by the expatriate staff played a vital
role for the successful implementation of the project.  The project management had a good
relationship with the other institutions and local administrations.  The close contact of the
management with the MAWR and the MPD cleared many obstacles and paved the way for smooth
functioning of the project.
13.          With regard to the technical assistance, SRADP recruited expatriate experts and
foreign consultants in various disciplines whose support was quite effective and instrumental in
improving the performance of the project and in providing on-job-training to their national
counterparts.
14.          SRADP complied with most of the major loan agreement covenants. The project has
achieved a high rate of success by implementing the project economically in spite of so many
constraints.
G. Assessment of Outcome
15.          The project has satisfactorily achieved its major objectives. However, the rate of
procurement of fertilizers was low due to the delay in procurement and partial cancellation of credit.
IFAD-financed component of RWID has achieved more than the targets set for it in the Appraisal
report. However, to utilize the balance loan and AGFUND grant for the benefit of the rural



- 48 -
population, further extension has been granted to December 31, 1996. The progress of the SDC
grant component has been improving steadily and the granting of extension to December 31, 1996,
will ensure that the surplus amounts resulting from the appreciation of the Swiss currency will be
utilized to further support development of the project area.
16.          The high rate of physical implementation with comparatively low expenditure
percentage reveals the efficiency of the project administration in implementing procurement actions.
H. Future Operation
17.          For long term sustainability, the establishment of a Regional Development Authority
(RDA) is an essential requirement. Hence, establishment of RDA is in review with the Government.
I. Key Lessons Learned
18.          The recommendations of the IDA's Sector Portfolio Project Review (SPPR) and the
following country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR - April - May 1995) have been accepted by
the Government which will enable projects to overcome bottlenecks in project implementation.
Unfortunately, these recommendations were accepted by MAWR only six months before closing of
IDA credit. Although this project has been one of the most severely affected by the previous
bottlenecks, it is hoped that future projects will enjoy the benefits of the new decree of the
Government which is based on recommendations of CPPR.



- 49 -
25.4.96
TO      :Mr. Salalb D)arghouth
Div6idon C'lief
Natural Rcesources   Vanter ansd F.nvironmneilt Ollvisio,i
World Batk
W asliiugtonl D.C.
U.S.A.
F'ron: Ilamnotui Mohamed AI-Rtaibaidi, 1l'roiect Nianger
Southei-ni RegionaI A%grRtuniurl I)itvulujjnmersH1roject
'Ialz,  Republic f,r Y*men
Sbll.  Soutlhern Regi-i'al Agricatalfirl Developmnit P'rojlevct (C 'V 1772 V I'N'11
Implernlelt;atlpim  (oml>letlio iei ort (I('K)
Denr NI r. Duargh1outh ,
UlUrcrarene your letter oI Apr-il 16, 1996 , reque%thig oum cipstl5Iluati  s ti) tb;-
IC14 delivered  1b  Task Mnnagci  Mr. AI-Sadihi .   Allet reviewing ihi r(. K ve
woulk  like to  Inforim   ou that (Ise report  reprc;eLi;ltive aim aiccuriute sn<t f;dr
nsl%esguesit or- thle Iilipill.ei.etatl<on. vtge or tole pr4ject Ami,d we have 1i rmflgIti
uomnmeints to it%, Content.L
We  would  howeveri lilec to) poit,t out tiat ttie report dI4)L'. p)reeSlEit a Ct inst raltivv
vLiiIu&a;.n---%&nd  aIftwex tnot ta2 p  inu1s. axtOWult tile CollsidIelable tmnuccciutlueted1 t o1'
po)-ltIve   v'iaLl adti eivir-o...kienitUl heliefltso  which allre  it`il!cu4L to quantit.y . l
p;.t Licular benefnts r-romii ruiral water Supply and  ruirnit wnotiem   develu.pimuesit its
additi;oll  to  Supporrt to agrictUltit-c gceerally over- the hist eight years . I p'l  psujeti
hlaln SIN, conitributedI in  is large xenCe tn tihe institlUt;inal dievelopmnent i1i 9H.A1L)
and traliming of It! ShalT thU% IaiakIig it an  activC imnprlementaiona aRgenly In tIe Tait.
anid lbb CGoverikorates .



- 50 -
We wotiltd like to extend otir thankm to you and appreciation to IIA anid the .SaiT
of  NIN2NV for all the close cooperation and a.mslMtmlce given tn SR.IADV in
achieving its role of serving the rural and agricultural conununities in Taiz and Ibb
Governorates.
Iest Regards,,
Hxaino   M u,d0 ub;idi
CC.  Minstrv of Agric.
CC .: MsInWlry or Planning Si& Developmient
CC.  Wor'ld Banik Reosldcnt Misaon



- 51 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1772-YAR)
Notes on Financial and Economic Analysis
APPENDIX C



- 52 -
APPENDIX C
NOTES ON FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. CROP BUDGETS AND FARM MODELS
Introduction
1.           Both the Preparation Mission and the SAR estimated that the SRADP would reach
approximately 26,000 new farmers on 50,000 ha and 40,000 additional farmers on 70,000 ha, who
had already benefitted from the first two phases. The breakdown of these beneficiaries in the two
Governorates was estimated as follows:
Farming System                     Status      No. of Beneficiaries
Rainfed farms receiving extension only             new                18,400
existing            30,200
Irrigated farms receiving extension only           new                10,000
existing             6,700
Irrigation rehabilitation & extension              new                   350
On-farm irrigation improvement                     new                   550
TOTAL                                                    66,000
2.           The tree crop program was expected to give an incremental planting of 375 ha of
citrus and 100 ha of coffee.
3.           Benefits were assumed to come from a combination of improved cultural practices,
clean seed, new varieties and increased use of inputs (fertilizer and crop chemicals). These benefits
were quantified in a number of farm models covering rainfed and irrigated cropping in the
governorates of Ibb and Taiz. These models assumed a level of input use in the without-project case
based on the experience of the first two projects and the with-project model assumed an increase due
to importation of fertilizer and crop chemicals through the project as well as some additional
Government purchases. Since these benefits were not quantified as part of the monitoring and
evaluation exercise during project implementation, the ICR mission had to estimate the project
benefits. Based on intensive interviews by the mission with farmers and extension staff in selected
project areas, the following are the assumptions and approach used.



- 53 -
Cropping Pattern and Yield
4.            The rainfed cropping pattern for both Taiz and Ibb and yields in the with and without
project situation have been estimated as follows:
Area             Without Project       |        With Project
Crop            %                ................... Yield ton/ha.
Sorghum             60              1.0           (3.0) a/         1.2           (3.6)
Wheat                15             1.2           (2.0)            1.4           (2.3)
Maize                15             1.2           (2.4)            1.5           (3.0)
Legumes              6             0.8             -               1.0
Potatoes             4             8.0             -              10.0
4' Figure in brackets is fodder amount.
The combined rainfed and irrigated cropping pattern and yield estimates are set out below:
Season          Area       Without Project  I   With Project
Crop                              %          ............ Yields ton/ha.
Sorghum               S-RF              35           1.0      (3.0)      1.2       (3.6)
Wheat                 S-RF             25            1.2      (2.0)      1.4       (2.3)
"1                  W-IRR              25            1.3      (3.0)      1.6       (3.4)
Maize                 S-RF              15           1.2      (2.4       1.5       (3.0)
"1                   W-RF              20            1.5      (2.5)     2.0        (3.0)
Legumes              S-IRR               7.5        0.8        -         1.0        -
".                  W-IRR               7.5          1.0       -         1.2        -
Vegetables            S-RF               5          10.0       -        13.0
"1                  W-IRR               10          10.0       -       13.0         -
Potatoes              S-RF              10           8.0       -       10.0
W-IRR              25          10.0        -       13.0        -
a' Figure in brackets is fodder amount.



- 54 -
Input Use
5.            The SAR assumed that, as a result of project activities, the use by farmers of
chemical fertilizers and crop chemicals would increase. These incremental requirements were funded
by the project for two years after which it was assumed that local currency would be available for
conversion to foreign exchange to purchase further requirements. The existing, without-project
levels of use were assumed to be due to activities carried out in the first two phases of the project.
These without-project levels ranged from a low of 25 kg/ha of urea for rainfed sorghum to 100 kg/ha
of urea on rainfed potatoes. For irrigated crops, estimates ranged from a low of 75 kg/ha for
irrigated wheat and maize to 150 kg/ha for potatoes and vegetables. With project, these application
rates were assumed to double or even triple and to include potash and phosphatic fertilizers.
6.            Actual levels of fertilizers and crop chemical use both without and with project have
been difficult to estimate. The purchase of fertilizer through SRADP was subject to delay and
regular field monitoring of farmer use was not carried out by the M&E Department. However, it
is the opinion of the ICR mission that fertilizer use was lower than predicted in the SAR due to a
combination of scarcity and lack of conviction of farmers particularly for rainfed crop application.
Levels of use in the ICR crop budgets are, therefore, set at a lower level than those assumed in the
SAR.
Crop Budgets
7.            Crop budgets for sorghum (rainfed), and wheat, maize, potatoes, legumes, vegetables
(rainfed and irrigated); and citrus and coffee (irrigated) are given in Tables la-le.
Farm Models
8.            Based on the crop budgets and estimated cropping patterns with and without the
project, two one-hectare farm models have been developed, one for rainfed conditions and the other
for an irrigated farm. These models are presented in Tables 2 and 3. In addition, one hectare
models for farmers planting either citrus or coffee are presented in Tables 4 and 5. All farm models
assume that in the without project situation the farm family provide 70% of labor requirements and
that hired labor is employed only during peak requirements. In the with project situation the amount
of family labor is assumed to remain constant and any additional labor is hired at market rates.
B. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
9.            As shown in Tables 2 and 3, both the rainfed and irrigated one hectare models show
a satisfactory increase in net returns with project. For the rainfed models net return increases from
around YR 37,000 (US$312) without the project to around YR 48,000 (US$400) with the project,
an increase of about 28% Return for family labor day also increases from about YR 1,275 without
project to about YR 1,630 with the project. In the case of the irrigated model the net return
increases from about YR 182,000 (US$1,510) without project to about YR 250,000 (US$2,100) with
the project. Return per family labor day increases from about YR 2,630 to about YR 3,640. The
high net returns of the irrigated model reflect the much higher intensity of the cropping pattern (1.85
compared to 1.0 for the rainfed model), the high value crops typically grown, and the small cost of
irrigation due to low diesel price of YR 3 per litre (2.5 US cents).
10.          The two one-hectare models for citrus and coffee planting (Tables 4 and 5) also show
very attractive returns with financial rates of return on investment of around 50%. This very good
result is largely due to the high farm-gate prices for citrus and coffee. Current selling price for



- 55 -
citrus is around YR 40,000 (US$333) per ton, while coffee is extremely high at YR 300,000
(US$2,500) per ton or around seven times 1995 world market prices.
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
11.            The ICR prepared by SRADP estimated that some 118,000 ha and 107,300 farmers
were covered by the project of which approximately 36,000 ha represented new farmers and the
remainder were farmers already reached by the first two phases. Actual benefits attributed to project
activities were not calculated. Citrus planting increased by about 600 ha and new coffee plantings
were estimated to be approximately 360 ha. Based on the number of seedlings produced at the two
nurseries supported by the project and assuming a 75% survival rate in the field, farmers received
sufficient citrus seedlings to plant approximately 520 ha and sufficient coffee seedlings to plant
100 ha. Forestry and other seedlings amounted to a further 215 ha. Additional material would be
available from private nurseries.
12.            Based on the above data combined with field observations and detailed discussions
with SRADP project staff, the ICR mission has estimated the following benefits:
-     Rainfed agriculture, represented by Model 1, covering 75%  of 118,000 ha, or
90,000 ha.
-     Irrigated or partially irrigated agriculture, represented by Model 2, covering
25% of 118,000 ha, or 30,000 ha.
-     Citrus planting, represented by Model 3, covering 500 ha; and
-     Coffee, represented by Model 4, covering 100 ha.
13.            Since the development of irrigation infrastructure anticipated at appraisal has not
occurred5 , the main benefits are, therefore, those resulting from the uptake of improved practices
as a result of the improvement in agricultural support services financed by the project. As in the
SAR, benefits as a result of increased fodder availability and hence increased annual production,
particularly milk, as well as benefits from the provision of good drinking water supplies to
communities, have not been quantified. Adjustments made for the economic analysis, assuming a
30-year project life (the same as was assumed in the SAR) are as described below.
14.            Project Costs. Records of project investment and recurrent costs maintained by the
project are available both in YR and in US$ terms converted at the market rate. The latter series
have been used for the analysis and brought to constant 1995 US$ values by applying an inflator
derived from the MUV index (Table 6). Project costs total US$21.7 million or about US$7 million
less than expected at appraisal.  In constant 1995 US$ terms total project cost is estimated at
US$24.12 million, including expenditure of US$4.46 million or about 18% of the total in the year
ending December 1995, which was mainly for equipment, vehicles, machinery and civil works.
Annual replacement of vehicles and equipment from 1996 onwards has been assumed to be 20% of
the total project investment in these items.
5/  The ten demonstrations farms of localized irrigation (2 ha each) have been completed and a further ten portable sprinkler
irrigation demonstration units have been procured for arable crops and for supplementary irrigation of rainfed crops.
Studies of ten small irrigation schemes have also been completed, of which four include detailed engineering. There are
currently four such schemes under construction, financed from the SDC grant, and due to be completed during 1996.



- 56 -
15.          Maintenance of civil works has been estimated at 2% annually of the construction
costs. Salaries and other operating costs from 1996 onwards have been estimated as the average of
the last four years expenditure by the project for these purposes, amounting to YR 10.2 million
(US$85,000) annually.
16.          Output and Input Prices. Prices used for valuing production and cost of inputs in
both the financial and economic analyses in constant 1995 values are summarized in Table 7.
Financial prices of sorghum, wheat and pulses are significantly higher than their economic values,
which reflects the strong preference of Yemeni consumers for locally grown commodities. Prices
used for the economic analysis of traded commodities produced and imported agricultural input items
have been derived from IDA price forecasts, as presented in Table 8 and uses an effective exchange
rate of YR 120 per US$1. The world market coffee price has been adjusted by a conversion factor
of 1.4 to allow for the 40% premium paid for Yemeni coffee (as was also assumed in the SAR).
Prices of non-traded agricultural commodities produced have been adjusted by a Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.85. Labor costs have been valued at market rates, since it is assumed that 70%
of the labor requirements in the without project situation are provided by the farm family and the
30% of hired labor is only employed during peaks of labor shortage when the opportunity cost of
labor equates to the market wage. Incremental labor in the with project situation has also been
costed at market rates. Since fuel costs are heavily subsidized, with diesel selling at only YR 3 per
litre (2.5 US cents), or less than a third of the world price, tractor costs have been increased by a
conversion factor of 1.5 and irrigation by a conversion factor of 3.0.
17.          Without Project Situation and Phasing of Project Benefits. A most irnportant
factor of the analysis is what assumption can reasonably be made regarding the without project
situation. Following on two previous IDA-financed projects for agricultural development, it does not
appear realistic to assume a static without project situation. It has, therefore, been assumed that from
the 1988 project commencement the net agricultural benefit in the without project situation increases
at a rate of 2% annually, similar to overall growth in agricultural productivity in the recent past.
In the with project situation the benefits from the rainfed and irrigated area are assumed to start five
years after project commencement and to develop over a 10-year period to reach full development
in 2001, the fifteenth year of the project. From 2001 onwards, until the end of the project life,
assumed to be in 2017, both the without and with project net value of production are assumed to
remain constant. The relatively small areas of citrus and coffee are assumed to be planted up over
five-year period 91-95.
18.          Economic Rate of Return. Based on these estimates and assumptions, the economic
rate of return of the project is calculated at about 14% (Table 9). A further analysis showed that the
project investment and operating cost including all replacement, maintenance, salaries and other
recurrent expenditures over a 30-year project life would be fully recouped, assuming a twelve percent
discount rate, by an annual agricultural net benefit equivalent to about 5.5% of the total agricultural
net benefit in the without project situation in the year of project commencement. Both of the
analyses, therefore, indicate that even on the basis of the most conservative estimates, increases in
agricultural production as a result of the project, can be expected to be sufficient to result in an
adequate rate of return on the project's investment and recurrent cost expenditures.



- 57 -
19.              Sensitivity Analysis. The sensitivity analysis is given in Table 1 I and the following
is a summary of main findings:
Item                                                ERR %
Base case                                                                           13.8
Benefits down 20%                                                                   10.8
Costs up 20%                                                                        11.3
Benefits down 20%  and costs up 20%                                                 8.3
Benefits lagged against costs by two years                                          11.0
Benefits lagged against costs by two years and costs                                9.0
increase by 20%
Table l(a) - Crop Budgets (ha): Input
Requirements and Yield for Sorghum and Wheat
Unit          Sorghum                  Wheat                  Wheat
(RF)                   (RF)                   (irrig.)
Without |  With        Without |  With         Without |  With
Seed                          kg         35          35          130         130        130         130
Fertilizer
N                          kg         15          25          30          45         40          60
P                          kg          -           -          -           15          -          25
K                          kg                -          -                 -           -           -
Chemical                  1/kg        0.5         1.0         -          1.0         1.0         2.0
Cultivatioii
Tractors                  hour         7          7           7           7           7          7
Animal                    day         10          10          10          10         10          10
Labor
Hired                     day         14          15          9           9           iI         11
Family                    day         32          34          20         20          24          26
Water                    '000 m3       -          -           -           -          6.0         5.0
Yield
Grain                     ton         1.0         1.2        1.2         1.4         1.3         1.6
Fodder                     ton        3.0        3.6         2.0         2.3         3.0         3.4



- 58 -
Table 1(b) - Crop Budgets (ha): Input Requirements and Yield
for Maize and Potatoes
Unit         Maize                 Maize               Potatoes         Potatoes (Irrig.)
l                       ~~~      ~     ~     ~~~(RF)  (Irr .)      (RF)
Without   With       Without  | With       Without    With    Without   With
Seed           kg        50         50         40        40        2, 000     2,000     2,000    2,000
Fertilizer
N              kg         15        25         30        45         60         75        75        90
P              kg         -         -          -          15         -         25         -        30
K              kg         -         -          -          -          -          15        -        15
Chemical      l/kg       0.5       1.0        1.0        2.0        1.5        2.5       2.0       3.0
Cultivation
Tractor       hour        7         7          7          7          9          9         9         9
Animal        day        10        10         10         10         14         14       14        14
Labor
Hired          day        8         11        11         13         26         27        28        30
Family         day       20        24         24         29         59         63        64        70
Water        '000 m3      -         -         6.0        5.0         -          -        6.5      5.0
Yield
Grain         ton        1.2       1.5        1.5        2.0        8.0       10.0      10.0      13.0
Fodder         ton       2.4       3.0        2.5        3.0         -          -         -        -



- 59 -
Table 1(c) . Crop Budgets (ha): Input Requirements and Yield
for Legumes and Vegetables
Unit         Legumes              Legumes             Vegetables       Vegetables (Irrig.)
(RF)                 (Irr.)               (RF)
Without | With    Without | With    Without | With    Without I With
Seed                kg         60         60        60         60        0.5        0.5        0.5       0.5
Fertilizer
N                   kg          -          -         -          -         60        75         75        100
P                   kg                                                     -         25         -        40
K                   kg          -          -         -          -          -         15         -         15
Chemical            l/kg        -          -         -          -         1.5       2.5        2.0       3.0
Cultivation
Tractor            holur        7         7          7          7         9          9         10         10
Animilal            day        10         10(        10         10        15         15        20        20
Labor
Hired               day        12         13         14        14         30        38         38        45
Family              day        28         29        31         34         70        87         87        105
Water             000 mi        -          -        5.0        3.5        -          -         7.5       5.0
Yield
Grain               toi        0.8        1.0       1.0        1.2        10         13        10        13
Fodder              ton         -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -



- 60 -
Table 1(d) . Crop Budgets (ha): Input Requirements and Yield
for Citrus
Unit                                      Year
I   1 2  1                  3  1          4            10-20
Seed                        kg          440             44            22             -              -
Fertilizer
N                           kg           75             50            50            50              60
P                           kg            50            25            25            25             25
K                           kg            25            15            15            15              15
Chemical                   1/kg          1.0            1.5          2.0            2.0            3.0
Cultivation
Tractor                    hour           7              -             -             -              -
Animal                      day           10            10            7              5              5
Labor
Hired                       day          45             27            21            27             35
Family                      day         105            63             49            63             80
Water                    '000 m3         2.0           2.2           2.5            3.0            3.5
Yield
Grain                      ton            -             -              -             1             13
Fodder                     ton                                                       -



- 61 -
Table 1(e)  Crop Budgets (ha): Input Requirements and Yield for Coffee
Unit                            Year                          .
1         2          3          7    I   10-20
Seedlings            kg       1,650       165        80          -          -
Fertilizer
N                    kg        75         50         50         50          50
p                    kg        50         25         25         25          25
K                    kg        25         15         15         15          15
Chemical            1/kg       1.0        1.5        1.5        2.0        3.0
Cultivation
Tractor              hour       7          -          -          -          -
Animal               day       10         10          7          5          5
Labor
Hired                day        45        24         15         27          35
Family               day       105        56         35         63          80
Water              '000 m3     1.0        1.2        1.5        2.0        2.4
Yield                ton        -          -         0.1        0.5        0.8
Table 2. Per Hectare Budget for Rainfed Farm Model
WITHOUT PROJECT          WITH PROJECT
Unt.    Unk Price.  Quantly.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.
(YR)                   OYR)                    CYR)
A. Value of Produ ction
YiDid                      ton               -               42650.00            -   520,'7.50
By-product                 ton               -               18990.00            -   227h2.50
Gross return                                                 61640.00                748%0.00
B. Cost of Farm hiputs.
Seed                       kg                -     131.60    7163.75       131.60    71(3.75
F&rtilisers
Urea                      kg           35.00       18.15      635.25       2&50       9'7.50
DAP                       kg           48.00            -          -        3.25      1%6.00
Muriate of potash         kg           30.00            -          -        0.60        18.00
Agrochernicals           lite/kg       1200.00        0.44     522.00         1.00    120.00
Hired labour              days         400.00        12.59    5034.00        15.76    63C2.00
Land preparaUon         . Tlhour       500.00         7.08    3540.00        7.08    3540.00
A/day        500.00       10.16    5080.00        10.16    5080.00
lrrigation               000m3           1000            -          -            -
TlaI(inc. 1 06 other costs)                                  24172.50                26902.98
C. Net Return (A)- (13)                                      37467.5D                47927.03
Tctal labour days         days                       41.95                   45.12
Fanily Labour             days                      29.37                   29.37
Rdurnto Family Labour YR/day                      1275.92                 1632-.11



- 62 -
Table 3.  PER HECTARE BUDGET IRRIGATED FARM MODEL.
WITHOUT PROJECT    WITH PROJECT
Unit.   UnA Price. Quantity.   Value.   Quantity.   Value.
(YR)               (YR)                (YR)
A Value of ProducUon
Yield                ton                        268337.50        - 343725.00
By-product           ton                         13665.00        -  16312.50
Gross return                                    28200250            360037.50
B. Cost ci Farm Inputs.
Seed                  kg            -    801.83  52111.25    801.83  52111.25
Fertlisers
1.Wea                kg         3&O0     66.25   2318.75     91.50   3202.50
DAP                  kg         48.00     0.00        -      28.25   1356.00
Murate of potash     kg         30.00     0.00        -       8.75    262.50
Agrocherrlcals      litre/kg   1200.00     1.63   1950.00      3.08   3690.00
Hired labcur         days       400.00    29.60  11841.00     40.23  16091.00
Land preparation   . T/hour     500.00    14.05   7025.00     14.05   7025.00
Aiday      500.00    21.15  10575.00     21.15  10575.00
Irrigation          000m3        1000      5.45   5450.00      4.26   4232.50
Total(nc. ID% other costs)                      1003981D            108433.33
C. Net Retjrn (A)-(B)                           181604.40          251604.18
Total labour days    days                 98.68              109.3
Family Labour        days                 69.07               69.07
Return to Family Labour YR/day          2629.19             3642.61



Table 4.  PER HECTARE CROP BUDGEr FOR CITRUS.
EAR1 YEAR2                            YEAR3               YEAR 4            YEAR 10-20
UniL   Unnt Price, Quantity.   Value.   QuLntiy.   Vale.   Quantity.    alue.   Quartty.   Value.   Quanhty.   Value.
(YR)               (YR)                (YP                IYR)                 (YR)                (YR)
A. Vakhe of Prodjclion
Yield                 ton        40000         -                                                           I    40000         13   5200)00
By-rxoduct            ton
Gross return                                                                 -                                  40000              520000
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Seedins             number         110       440    48400         44      4840        22      2420        -         -         -         -   (
Fertilisa
Urea                  kg        36.00        75      2625        sO      1750        s0      1750        50      1750       50       1750
DAP                   kg        48.00        50      2400        25      1200        25      1200       25       120D       25       1230
MurLht ofpotash       kg        30.00        25      750         15       460        15       460       15       450        15       450
AgrochemiaLs         Wielkg     1200.00       1       1200         2      1800         2      2400        2      2400         3      3600
hiredlabotr          days       400.00        45    1ia00         Z7     10800        21     8400        27    10800         35     13P00
Land prparation      T/hotu    s5o.00          7      3600         -         -         -        -         -         -         -
A/day      500.00       10      SOOO        10      soo0         7      35Do         5      2500         5      2500
krrigaicDn           00Om3        1000         2      2000         2      2200         3      2500        3      3000         4      3500
Total costs                                         83875               28040               2262D               22100               26800
C Net Raetrn (A)-(B)                               -83875              -28040              -22620                17900             493200



Tab L   PER HECrAI CROP BUDGEr FOR COFFEE.
'EM  I             'EAR 2             YEAR 3             YE7             VWEAR 10-20
UnL   Unk PrL  QCUry.   Value.   Oty.  Valw.   QuarZy.  Value   Ouw3y    Vau    Oa*y.   Vakus
(YBF              (YBO               (YR)               (YF                                    (YBR)
A. Velus el Prohdlon
Yiwd                  laoo0                  -         -        -         _       0.1   90000        05    1500I 0      0.8   240o0o
By-ro"               ton
Gross muIn                                             _                                 30000             Ism500             240000
B. Cog of FomlnpuiL
Se.dig               umdur         12     1650    1W00        165      160         80       0a        -         -                  -
Furtibw
Ursa                 kg         W00       75      2          s0      1750        50     1750        S)     1750       50      1750
DAP                  kg        41.00       50      2400       25      1200        25     1200       2;      12Dt       25      1200
Mutd* epotuh         kg        30D00       26       750       15       450        15      450        1:5     450        15      450
Agrochuitas         fbls      120D0Oo     .  1      12D0        2      1800         2     lo0          2     2400        3      3500
Hiad  wo             day.      400.0        45    1U000        24      9600        15     B000       2t    10800         35    13100
Lard pvepNMku       TAMn       500.00        7      800              -              -        -        -         -        -         -
Ajdq      600.00       10      5000        10     5000         7     3500        5      2500         5     2500
bplan               000KS        1000        1      1000         1     1200         2     1500        2      2100         2     2100
TOWa  ol                                          54275               mso                17160             21100               25700
C. Not PASn (A)-(B)                               -54276             -228l               12840             128900             214300



- 65 -
Table 6. Exchange Rates, MUV Index and Derived Inflator
Year                  Exchange Rate               MUtV b' Index             Derived Inflator
YR per US$
1988                          11.00                      95.327                      1.208
1981                          13.00                      95.018                      1.212
1990                          16.18                     100.000                      1.151
1991                          25.98                     102.230                       1.126
1992                          38.05                     106.640                      1.080
1993                          53.79                     106.330                      1.083
1994                         101.68                     110.210                       1.045
1995                         129.73                     115.130                      1.000
M' Market exchange rates.
b' IDA Commodity Price Forecasts, November 1995.



- 66 -
Table 7. Financial and Economic Prices
Financial                               Economic
Output Prices
-------------------  ----- YR/ton-------------------------------------
Sorghum                                                30000                                     17900
Wheat                                                  25000                                     19900
Maize                                                  17500                                     20200
Sorghum straw                                          10000                                     8500
Wheat straw                                            1500                                      1300
Maize straw                                             1500                                     1300
Pulses                                                 87500                                     40400
Potatoes                                               40000                                     34000
Vegetables                                             60000                                     51000
Citrus                                                 40000                                     34000
Coffee                                                300000                                     30900
Input Prices
----------------------------YR/kg------------------------------------
Sorghum  seed                                           30                                       18
Wheat seed                                              25                                      20
Maize seed                                              17.5                                    20
Pulses seed                                            87.5                                      40
Potato seed                                             70                                      70
Vegetable seed                                          800                                     800
Urea                                                    35                                      27
TSP                                                     48                                      25
Muriate of Potash                                       30                                      22
Crop chemicals                                         1200                                      1200
----------------------------YR/seedling---------------------------
Citrus seedling                                         110                                      110
Coffee seedling                                          12                                      12
----------------------------YR/day ----------------------------------
Labor                                                   400                 400
----------------------------YR/hour---------------------------------
Tractor hour                                            500                 750
----------------------------YR/day ----------------------------------
Animal draught per day                                  500                 500
----------------------------YR/'OOOm3-----------------------------
Irrigation water                                       1000                 3000



- 67 -
Table 8. Derivation of Economic Prices of Internationally Traded Commodities
Sorghum        Wheat         Maize        Puises          TSP                        U rea
A. AT IMPORT PARITY                                             I             I            I             I                          l
...................................... U .. . ... .... S$   oer    ton  ......... ...................................................................
World price forecast 1/                                    96            116          98            285            124         106            147
Quality adjustment factor                                 0.9            0.9         0.9            0.9              1           1              1
Adjusted fob value                                       86.4          104.4        88.2          256.5            124         106           147
Freight and insurance                                      50             50          50             50            50           50            50
cif value at port of enry                                136.4         154.4       138.2          306.5            174         156            197
....................................   YR per ton.
cif value at port of entry                              16368          18528       16584          36780         20880        18720         23640
Porndues and handling                                    1104           1104        1104           1104           1104        1104          1104
Handling/transport/storage                               3000           3000        3000           3000          3000         3000          3000
Value ex-store/rnarket                                  20472          22632       20688          40884         24984       22824          27744
Processing cost                                             0              0           0              0              0           0
Processing ratio                                          0.9            0.9           1              1              1           1              1
Transport/handling                                        480            480         480            480            480         480           480
Farmgate price                                        17944.8        19888.8       20208          40404         24504       22344          27264
Coffee
B. AT EXPORT PARITY
...............  SS per ton.
Value fob exit port 2/                                  295.4
...............   YR per ton.
Value fob exit port                                     35448
Port dues and handling                                   1104
Handling/transport/storage                               3000
Value ex-store/market                                   31344
Processing cost                                             0
Processing raio                                              I
Transportihandling                                        480
Farmgate price                                          30864
1/  IDA Commodity Price Projections, November 1995. Projections for 2005 in constant 1995 terms.
2/  Assuming a premium over world market prices of 40%, as in the SAR



Table 9 (a). Economic Analysis: Streams of Bentilts, Costs and Net Benefits
(US$ '000)
1        2          3         4         5         6         '7        a         9        1 0       11        12        13        14        15
Benefits
Field crops W'out project  48436.0  49404. 0  50392.0  51400.0  52426.0  53477.0  54546.0  55637.0  56750.0  57805.0  59043.0  60224.0  61428.0  62657.0  62657.0
Field crops With project   48436.0  49404.0  50392.0  51400.0  53194.0  54988.0  56782.0  58575.0  60369.0  62163.0  63957.0  65751.0  67544.0  69338.0  69338.0
Perennials With project              -         -         -    -89.0   -132.0   -149.0   -148.0    -92.0    110.0    312.0    565.0    845.0   1125.0   1349.0   1511. 0
Total Incr. Benef-its                -         -         -    -89.0    644.0   1362.0   2088.0   3846.0   3729.0   4590.0   5479.0   6372.0   7241.0   8030.0   8195.0
Coats
Capital costa                  4685.0   2561.0   2351.0   3724.0   2645.0   2153.0   1547.0   4459.0   1705.0   1705.0   1705.0   1705.0   1105.0   1705.0   1705.0
Operating Costs-                               -         - -       -         -          -                   -    230.0    230.0    230.0    230.0    230.0    230.0    330.0
Total Cost.                    4685.0   2561.0   2351.0   3724.0   2545.0   2153.0   1547.0   4459.0   1935.0   1935.0   1935.0   1935.0   1935.0   1935.0   1935.0
Net Benefits
Net Incremental Benefits   -4685.0  -2561.0  -2351.0  -3813.0  -2001.0   -791.0    541.0  -1513.0   1794.0   2655.0   3544.0   4437.0   5306.0   6095.0   6263.0
32/2/1996  14:59                                                                                                                                                                            W0
IRR  =13.8X
Table 9 (b). Economic Analysis: Streams of Benefits, Costs and Net Benefits
(US$ '000)
16    17-30
Benefits
Field crop. tlout project  42657.0  62657.0
Field crops With project   69338.0  69338.0
Pereonnials With project       1629.0   1685.0
Total Incr. Benefits           8310.0   6366C0
coats                                         .
Capital Costs                  1705.0   1705.0
Operating Coats                 230.0    230.0
Total Coats                    1935.0   1935.0
mat Deef its
met inare.bental Denefits    6376.0   6431.0



- 69 -
Table 10. Present Values of Net Streams at a Discount Rate of 12.0%
(US$ '000)
.. .. .... ........ ........... .,, .......... ,,,,, ,......
BTaT    UP 10%    UP 20%    UP 50%  DOWN 10I  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
C?OT    299S5.7    5428.5    7861.2   151s9.3        563.0   -1869.7   -9167.5
UP 10%      862.6    3295.3    5728.0   13026.2   -1570.1   -4002.8  -11301.0
UP 20%   -1270.5    1162.2    3594.9   10893.0   -3703.3   -6136.0  -13434.1
UP 50%   -7670.0   -5237.3   -2804.5    4493.6  -10102.7  -12535.4  -19833.6
DONN 10%    5128.9    7561.6    9994.3   17292.5    2696.2          263.4   -7034.7
DOWN 20%    7262.0    9694.7   12127.5   19425.6    4829.3    2396.6   -4901.6
DOWN 50%   13661.5   16094.2   18526.9   25825.0   11228.7    8796.0    1497.9
B70T     LAhJ       LAO 2      LAG 3
CTOT    2995.7      389.3   -1938.0   -4015.8
UP 10%      662.6   -1743.9   -4071.1   -6149.0
UP 20%   -1270.5   -3877.0   -6204.2   -8282.1
UP 50%   -7670.0  -10276.5  -12603.7  -14681.5
DOWN 10%    5128.9    i522.4       195.2   -1882.7
DOWN 20t    7262.0    4655.5    2328.3        250.5
DOWN 50%   13661.5   11055.0    8727.8    6649.9
LAG 1          -    2674.8      347.5   -1730.3
TAo 2          -          -   2388.2       310.3
LMA 3          -          -          -    2132.3
Table 11. Internal Rates of Returns of Net Streams
BTOT    UP 10%    UP 20%    UP 50%  DOWN 10%  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
CTOT    13.781    15.088    16.297    19.482    12.352    10.766           4.322
UP lot    12.487    13.781    14.974    18.105    11.068          9.486      2.917
UP 20%    11.315    12.599    13.781    16.870         9.899      8.313      1.568
UP 50a      0.313     9.597    10.766    13.781        6.880      5.243    -2.415
DOWN 10%    15.227    16.554    17.784    21.037    13.781    12.184           5.815
DOWN 20%    16.870    18.224    19.482    22.819    15.399    13.781           7.437
DOWN SO%    23.817    25.320    26.124    30.476    22.196    20.430    13.781
rTo?     LAo 1      LAO 2      LAG 3
CTOT    13.781    12.218    10.969        9.943
UP lOt    12.487    11.073       9.938      9.007
UP 20%    11.315    10.030       8.999      8.152
UP 50%      8.313     7.350      6.571      5.943
DOWN 10%    15.227    13.492    12.110    10.980
DOWN 20%    16.a70    14.932    13.396    12.144
DO" 50    23.817    20.922    18.685    16.894
LAG I          -    13.781    12.218    10.968
LAG 2          -          -    13.781    12.218
LAG 3          -          -         -    13.781
Table 12. Switching Values at 12.0%
...........................
Appraisal      Switching      Percentage
Stream              Value          Value          Change
9T7?               24327.2        21331.4           -12.3%
CTOT               21331.4        24327.2           14.0%
Net Present Value at OCC   12.0% - 2995.7
Internal Rate of Return - 13.8%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return - 13.9%






IBRD 27977
44Y                                                             46
Y E M E N
Dhohc                  SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAUDI ARABIA   7                                 Nor                     PROJECT AREA
.  PROJECT AREA
-    MAIN ROADS
(   lS  A  A    D  A    H                     SECONDARY ROADS
Jlzan Ct\              <              \ Soodoh                     /                    WADtS
\     NATIONAL CAPITALS
\   -   \   /     Be,at r0   CITIES, TOWNS AND VILLAGES
\ J 5 _ J 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN PORTS
Horod                l                                            INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
M   A  R  I B    -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Abs                                                                               MILES
o        20        40        60
o    20   40    60   8io   100
KILOMETERS
L.ho,yo       Azzohroh          0
S lil f                  Al Molhjoil     SANA A     0  Ao..   _}       
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.
A Srdudk2         \    Sh|
Al Kolh.b tw    J    SooI,hooAl        /    A         A,
Hodelth t .         k    Q A DDobobo
ERITREA     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ho. 
*.J\~ ~~~~~~ 0/I                                                                                  Thel bawdar.s Hoyors J  m\omDnomoon
ATat ohooi mo  do n i    o                                                                                    r
/                                                                                                  Th World Lank Joroup an 8udgmnD_
Alo-u KoRndaries.
44o                                                            460
T.ho.  b,A 1
Sooo J.11                                                                                                  14
ERITREA                              
y   \  /                                                                     n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Te boutndaries, colors, denominations
ETHIOPIA                                                                                                         a    nei any other information shown on
/                                          'J U- 0 i ' _ .  ' ! ! i           is m~~~~~~~~~~~~~heWord onk Cwip, any iv4ment
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R eJBUIoyndorsement or occoptonscof
j                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~suchl bound.ri s
;                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44'                                              46






S A N AA 
rn~~  ~~           /o                                                                          BB\rm
\~~~~~~~~                                           H A MD" R      . .S'A * t* eAg                                                         (1
V ,'   / r  -   *  U         \ @                            ^ E RADA F                t            \~~~~~~~~~~~B        D  
SANAA    .--/                                                                                                            D
7~~~~~~~~
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l                                                                       A T
X g1/ ,Yu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~flo,p -g>>'oh~.o  \ oloo1 oo'o
YEMEN                                                                               SAI AdAT AAR
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICUL~~~~~~~-TURAL (                                             - 
i     .             t -PROJECT FEATURES
\~                  ~~~~~~~ F (TI NA ON CENTE_S
fiVINJ   ,Y    S  I  MIS          A   I  AIRh  SlI    BRAPCIE              -    MAI  ROAD                      erllor nv.ARImAl
Al    3112Sf PA  SIAATESli
PREST A                                                                                     '' Z10.
P OEMl RUI I01l1IR5                           IPSItz 0Fl]T                             UROBAlSN ARA.TOWNElS                 EIT
AL -1 I ~     ~        .-  OEROAF  ONDRE
^   W(3^tlN l)lsrlOEMlrQl (INIIRS   *   I (llMlSOFQ~~~~ CFIP        NERNVARIONL BOUNDAERIS                 -A /                                                ORI.
Ad D.OC1 t I14T1 rs     OC 5 CllE RS   |        GREA[ER HAN I JDII- O/
A   (AfP ;  Bart i                       Ai RAJf11R                                tS IANwso -A
*  NURCERL ClTFS       i   hsIJR {R) IIFS                      _   SFC~~TU OA DR   OD                                r    A^
A   JMF][lk;ip                     '@ [ IR ISAIN                          zz     RA   PA  ON    
ffi                                                                         _   _ GVERNOAIE OONDAIFS                    PITPE-Alr
_ ~    ~       ~       SUHR                     REIO A          -AGRICULTURALDRlS                                                 DEBTOP









IMAGING
Report No:       15561
Type: ICR



