Do_ument Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4482-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 9.8 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTRERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 10, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = Yemeni Rial (YRl)
Calendar Year 1986                February 1987
$ I = YRIs 7.25               $1 = YRls 9.00
YR1  1 = $0.14                YRl 1 = $0.11
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres
' ha                   =  10,000 square meters
ABBREVIATIONS
ARA            Agricultural Research Authority
CACB           Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CLCCD          Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative
Development
CPO            Central Planning Organization
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP         Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
FAQ/IC         Food and Agriculture Organization/Investment
Center
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCCD           Local Councils for Cooperative Development
MAF            Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
OLM            Operation and Maintenance
PDRY           People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SDC            Swiss Development Cooperation
SMS            Subject Matter Specialist
SRADP          Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
SURDE          Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU          Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TFYP           Third Five-Year Plan
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
YAR            Yemen Arab Republic



FOR OFFICILL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:        Special Drawing Rights 9.8 million (about US$12.3 million
equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:   The project objectives are to increase agricultural
productivity and incomes of farmers of the Southern Region by
providing improved agricultural services including operation
and maintenance of agriculture infrastructure, improved
utilization of land and water resources, special assistance to
women farmers; and improved services for rural women to raise
the health/nutrition standards of the rural families. The
project would consist of construction of facilities, and the
provision of vehicles and equipment, to establish and
strengthen regional support services in agricultural extension,
rural development for women, veterinary services and operation
and maintenance; development of a tree nursery; provision of
fertilizer; construction of subbranches for the Cooperative and
Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB); establishment of demonstration
farms to train farmers in irrigation and agricultural
practices; rehabilitation of irrigation schemes (350 ha);
provision for a water resources study on the Wadi Bana area;
and technical assistance and training.
Benefits and
Risks:         The project would benefit about 120,000 farm units, or about
670,000 people in the Southern region through the development
of agriculture and improvement in their standard of living
through better health and nutrition practices. In addition,
the construction of irrigation schemes would increase water
availability and efficiency of water use, and thus the area
under irrigation. The main risks include inadequate local
funding; and delays in appointment of national and expatriate
staff. The Government has undertaken to take appropriate
actions to overcome these problems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Prolect Costs: LL
Local         Foreign         Total
($ million)
Regional Services
-Extension                              3.18            5.68          8.86
-Rural Development for Women            1.17            1.66          2.83
-Veterinary                             0.35            0.30          0.65
-Operation and Maintenance              2.33            2.95          5.28
Sub-Total                       7.03           10.59         17.62
Nursery Development                        0.22           0.50          0.72
Fertilizer                                0.07            1.48          1.55
CACB                                      0.15            0.18          0.33
Irrigation Development                    1.01            2.07          3.08
BASE COST                               8.48           14 RZ         23.30
Contingencies
Physical                                0.58            1.10          1.68
Price                                   2.18            1.35          3.53
TOTAL PROJECT COST             11.24           17.27         28.51
Tentative Financing Plan:
IDA                                     2.6             9.7          12.3
SDC                                     1.5             4.3           5.8
IFAD                                    0.5             2.0           2.5
Government                              6.6             1.3           7.9
TOTAL                                  11.2            17.3          28.5
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDAIFY:              1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
- ($ Million)
Annual                       0.2   0.5   1.4   3.7   3.6   1.9   0.8    0.2
Cumulative                   0.2   0.7   2.1   5.8   9.4  11.3  12.1   12.3
Estimated Completion Date:  December 31, 1993
Rate of Return: 16 percent
Appraisal Report: Number 6407-YAR, dated March 4, 1987
/1 Exclusive of taxeb and duties from which the project is exempt.
Differences due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
To TEE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 9.8 million (approximately US$12.3 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a Southern Regional Agricultural
Development Project. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) and the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) have agreed in principle
to participate in the project's financing in the amounts of about $2.5
million and $5.8 million equivalent respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Country Economic Memorandum (No. 5621-YAR) dated March 17, 1986
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country economic data are
attached in Annex I. Data on social indicators bave been distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
Introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and material welfare of its citizens. The republican
government which came to power following the 1962 revolution succeeded in
establishing the foundations of a modern state within a surprisingly short
period of time. Political integration and the build-up of public
institutions have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and
private sectors, while maintaining a liberal market orientation. Under the
Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) and the First Five-Year Plan
(1976177-80181), the foundations of the country's physical and social
infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small scale.
Agriculture accounts for much of the country's labor force and 30 percent of
GDP and is constrained by erratic and generally low rainfall and scarcity of
cultivable land. The manufacturing sector, which accounts for 8 percent of
GDP, consists mainly of food processing, building materials and metalwork
industries and relies heavily on imported capital and intermediate goods.
Another 8 percent of GDP is accounted for by utilities and construction
leaving over 50 percent in services.
4.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances by Yemeni migrants, particularly in Saudi
Arabia, and grants from the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.1 billion per year between 1977 and 1985. Largely as a result of
these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly



-2-
over the last ten years, reaching an estimated $520 in 1985 (World Bank Atlas
methodology). Although there are no reliable data on income distribution,
there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth have been
widely distributed.
Recent Developments
5.       In the late 70s, a noticeable deceleration in economic growth set in
mainly because of the leveling off in the inflow of workers' remittances.
The early 80s witnessed a marked deterioration in the macrofinancial
situation, as public investment and associated recurrent expenditures
exceeded the Government's limited resources, and growing imports resulted in
a widening balance of payments deficit. This deterioration was aggravated by
the large reduction in official assistance from neighboring oil exporting
countries, caused by the decline in oil prices and the war in the Gulf. Yet,
inflation continued to be low in 1982 and 1983, mainly because imports were
cheapened by the appreciation of the Yemeni rial again3t most currencies
(except the US dollar to which it is pegged). But low inflation was obtained
at the cost of a sharp reduction in foreign reserves.
6.       In 1983-86, the YAR economy slowed down considerably.  This resulted
from both the Government's efforts to control expenditures and adverse
exogenous factors, namely, the decline in external resources, the severe
earthquake that hit the Dhamar area in December 1982 and the drought that
prevailed over most of the country in 1983 and in 1984. However, increased
grain imports kept food availability at a normal level.
7,.      In view of the shortage of investible resources, in 1983 the
Government started to scale down its investment targets by tightening
investment priorities, with assistance from IDA.  This effort was
complemented by an endeavor to restrain recurrent expenditure growth and to
increase tax revenue.  These measures resulted in a significant reduction in
the budget deficit in 1983, 1984 and in 1986.  On the external front, imports
were restricted and, since 1983, the currency has been devalued several times
(by 50 percent in total), which resulted in a large decline in imports and a
marked improvement in the balance of payments which showed a small surplus in
1986, following large deficits in the previous years. But despite the
improvement in the fiscal and external positions and the slowdown in the
money supply's growth, considerable inflationary pressures remain in the
economy, as in 1986 the budget deficit still represented about 12 percent of
GDP and inflation accelerated to more than 30 percent per annum.
8.       Oil and gas were discovered in 1984 in the eastern part of the
country, and exports of crude oil are planned to start in 1988. The impact
of the oil discovery on the country's resource availabilities is likely to be
limited because the increase in oil revenues to the government will be offset
by the decline in workers' remittances and in grants. In the meanwhile, the
YAR Government will have to continue to constrain expenditures while
providing for downstream investments to utilize the oil and gas resources.
At the request of the Government, IDA sent a mission in March 1986 to study
the impact of oil and gas discoveries on the YAR economy, and of the
investment options in the sector. The Report was discuased with the
Government in October 1986 and will be distributed to the Executive Directors
shortly.



-3-
Major Lonz-Term Issues
9.       Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. Health indlcators depict serious
problem. and adult literacy and school enrollment rates are still low; the
shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
development and limits the capacity of the public administration to manage
and implement a growing and increasingly complex development program. The
Government is continuing to allocate a large share of the budget to health
and education, but in order to accelerate the expansion of these services,
further resources, e.g. from users' charges, are needed.
10.      Increasing scarcity of water has emerged as a serious issue in YAR,
as a result of the rapid increase in household water consumption and the
development of irrigated agriculture. Recently, the drought has worsened the
situation through drastically lower recharges. The problem is particularly
serious around Sanaa where uncontrolled extraction of groundwater by farmers
has caused a large decline in the water table. A number of initiatives are
needed to address these problem: (i) establishing a comprehensive water
resources data base; (ii) improving coordination among the various agencies
operating in the water sector; (iii) introducing legislation to manage water
use; and (iv) strengthening cost recovery policies.
11.      YAR's population growth rate is very high, about 3 percent per
annum, which affects growth of per capita income and productivity. Also,
rapid population growth reduces agricultural land per capita to levels
characteristic of overpopulated countries, as agricultural development is
severely constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and water.
Furthermore, rapid population growth combined with an improvement in the low
coverage of YAR's population by key social services implies a heavy burden on
the already stretched Government budget. These adverse consequences of rapid
population growth require that the Government develop an appropriate policy
as soon as possible. Such policy should promote the benefits of spacing
children. provide information about family planning methods and
contraceptives.
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.      YAR has received large amounts of foreign assistance.  Since the
country's per capita income is low and it is designated as a "least-developed
country" by the UN, most of the aid has been provided in the form of grants
and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements, including grants,
came to around $4 billion by the end of 1985.  The principal donors have been
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, the USSR, the U.S., the
Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab
development funds.
13.      About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for budget support, primarily from Saudi Aravia, and for food
aid and technical assistance. Food aid has been provided through the World
Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of
official grants has been made available in the form of technical assistance.
Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has
high priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come.



- 4-
14.      Besides these grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official
lbuns, chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis
on toads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding
at end of 19B5 was estimated at $2,559 million, of which $1,868 million
(about 50 percent of GNP) was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $229
million or about 12 percent of the total disbursed and outstanding debt
reported. The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable, as
Western European countries have generally charged between 3/4 percent and
2-1/2 percent , while USSR and Arab countries and funds have charged 2 to 5
percent and 0 to 4 percent respectively. Loan maturities range from 3 to 50
years, with an average of 20 years.
15.      External aid commitments decreased sharply in recent years:  they
fell by 66 percent in 1983, increased by 44 percent in 1984 and fell again by
60 percent in 1985 to less than 20 percent of their 1982 level. Debt service
which remained stable at about $55 million per year in 1983-84 (about 5
percent of exports) following rescheduling of USSR debt, increased sharply to
$126 million in 1985 (about 11 percent of exports). The debt service is
projected to increase substantially over 1986-90 (to more than $230 million
per year), and the budgetary burden could become more difficult to bear, if
oil production and export revenues increase slowly. Thus, the Government
should sustain its stabilization program and its efforts to increase domestic
resource mobilization, refrain from borrowing on non-concessional terms,
ensure adequate levels and structure of interest rates and maintain the
flexible exchange rate policy adopted recently. This should help to improve
the external finances and restore the competitiveness of local production,
mainly in agriculture.
PART II - WORLD BAK OPERATIONS  '
16.      IDA has financed forty-six credits to YAR for a total of about
$440.0 million net of cancelLations. This credit would be the forty-eighth
to YAR, bringing total IDA commitments to about $452.3 million A. The
main goals of IDA's assistance in YAR have been threefold: (a) to develop
the basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are
prerequisites for development; (b) to develop production and income,
especially in the dominant productive sector, agriculture; and (c) to support
the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in rural and urban areas.
To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended fourteen credits ($147.9
million) for agriculture, fisheries and rural development; seventeen credits
($180.3 million) for infrastructure; seven credits ($73.7 million) for
education and training; three credits for industry ($22.0 million); two
t' Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
(P-4348-YAR), dated June 5, 1986, for the M-rib-Safir Road Project
approved by the Executive Directors on July 8, 1986.
z' Not including the proposed forty-seventh credit for SDR 8.2 million
($10.4 million) for the Teacher Training Project which is also scheduled
to be distributed to the Executive Directors on March 12, 1987.



- 5 -
credits for the petroleum sector ($14 million); a $10.5 million credit to
strengthen and expand the capabliity of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff
and manage the country's health care system and a $4.7 million credit to
provide technical assistance to strengthen the Central Planning
Organization. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made five
investments in YAR: Mi) $2.4 willion in FY78 to help finance a dairy and
juice project; (ii) $3.9 million in FY84, plus an additional equity
contribution of $0.4 million in FY85, for a dry cell battery project; (iii)
$3.9 million in FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee project; (iv)
$9 million in FY86 to support the construction of an oil refinery in Marib;
and (v) $2.4 million in FY86 to help finance a citrus orchard project.
Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1986. The attached map (number IBRD 19127R) indicates the
location of the IDA-financed projects in YAR.
17.      While IDA has been assisting the YAR Government in its efforts to
overcome the serious short-term budgetary and macrofinancial problems
(para. 7), the thrust of the IDA assistance strategy has remained focused on
long-term development and fundamental structural, institutional and policy
issues. These include agricultural productivity; manpower development and
institutional support; exploration for energy sources; identification of
viable industrial opportunities; and maintaining, upgrading and expanding the
physical infrastructure within the constraint of available resources. Sector
work complements both the economic work and lending operations and serves to
bridge the recommended short- and long-tern measures. IDA has recently
started discussing with the Government a possible change in its lending
strategy to emphasize, over the next few years, assistance to the Government
in its efforts to overcome short-term problems and prepare for a sustainable
growth path in the future. Discussions are also underway between the
Government, IMF and IDA on the possibility of a Structural Adjustment
Facility loan from the IMF to assist the Government in its short- to
medium-term adjustment efforts.
18.    After a considerable improvement in FY85, YAR's disbursement
performance deteriorated somewhat in FY86, reflecting a number of recurring
implementation problems and also the current economic and financial problems
which are causing delays in the provision of counterpart funds. So far,
disbursement performance in FY87 does not show a marked improvement over
FY86. Among the recurring problems, which are common to most countries at
YAR's stage of development, are: delays in the recruitment of consultants,
in the evaluation and award of contracts and in the resolution of contractual
issues with contractors, and in finalizing cofinancing arrangements. The
Governmnt and IDA are holding periodic country implementation reviews to
monitor the recurrent implementation problems more closely and to address
them promptly. Furthermore, the Goverament has recently introduced a number
of economic measures, of a temporary nature, designed to improve the
country's tight foreign exchange and budgetary situation and to redirect
foreign currency through the commercial banking system.
19.      Future World Bank operations, depending on the outcome of the
ongoing discussions with the YAR Government, are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of



agricultural services to new outlying areas, accelerate assistance to the
Government in the field of energy, and continue to meet the large
requirements of education and training. Particular attention will continue
to be given to YAR's ability to implement projects by ensuring the
availability of key staff and technical asoistance needs. A transportation
project has been appraised and projects in the energy, urban and health
sectors are under preparation. Future operations are expected in the areas
of agriculture, energy (particularly gas development) and education. A
change in strategy, however, would possibly shift IDA's focus from such a
broad-based approach to one more concentrated on the highest priority
sectors, such as energy and agriculture.
20.      YAR contr'buted an increasing portion of local currency financing
to IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be qubstantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize its catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to well over $400 million equivalent
of cofinancing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
ARriculture in the Economy
*21.     With about 7.4 million (80 percent) of YAR's resident population
living in rural areas, agriculture remains the most important sector of the
economy, employing about 70 percent of the resident labor force and
accounting for about 25 percent of GDP, excluding the cultivation of qat (a
mild stimulant plant). The largely subsistence-oriented agricultural
production varies considerably from year to year mainly because of
fluctuations in rainfall. Over the last decade, agricultural growth has
averaged only 1 percent, considerably less than the estimated population
growth of over 3 percent. Exacerbated by three consecutive years of drought
(1981-83), agricultural production remains low because of inadequate
infrastructure, insufficient support services. an overvalued exchange rate
until recently, and high labor costs.
22.      In recent years, there has been a change in the pattern of
agricultural production: a decline in the production of traditional crops
(sorghum, millet, cotton and coffee) caused largely in response to market
forces; and an increase in the production of high-value crops (fruits,
legumes, vegetables and qat) and chickens, due to a ban on imports. Although
yields for all crops have increased over the last 10-15 years, domestic
cereal production is unable to meet the growing demand, leading to a steep
increase in food and live animal imports. In 1983, these represented about
17 percent of the value of total merchandise imports. Agricultural exports
resain insignificant.



-7-
Institutional Arrangements
23.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) is responsible for
the overall agricultural development in the country. In the project area it
functions mainly tbrough its directorate offices established in the Taiz and
Ibb Governorates. In addition, several semi-autonomous organizations, such
as the national Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) and the Cooperative and
Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) and the Southern Uplands Rural Development
Unit (SURDU), whose tasks are mainly to provide agricultural support services
and to carry out irrigation projects, also come under the jurisdiction of
MAF. ARA, headquartered in Taiz, was established in 1983 to conduct research
and coordinate applied research activities being undertaken under individual
projects in different parts of the country. CACB is the primary source of
agricultural credit and operates in the project area through its branch and
subbranch offices.
24.      SURDU, headquartered in the city of Taiz and covering the Taiz and
Ibb Governorates, was established in 1976 aa a semi-autonomous unit, directly
responsible to the Minister for the implementation of the IDA-assisted
Southern Uplands Rural Development Projects (SURDP) I and II. It has
financial and operational independence for all project-related matters and is
assisted by a coordinating coimittee, chaired by the Minister, for liaison
with other ministries and/or agencies. It suffers, however, from a shortage
of suitably qualified local staff and a lack of sufficient local funds for
operation and maintenance (O&M) requirements. Although still heavily
dependent on expatriates for managerial and technical matters, SURDU has
developed into one of the better organized and more effective institutions in
the country and has made notable progress in the establishment of extension
services in the region.
25.      The Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative Development
(CLCCD-previously known as the Confederation of Yemeni Development
Associations, CYDA) was established in 1973 to provide technical assistance
to village-level Local Councils for Cooperative Development
(LCCDs-previously known as Local Development Associations, LDAs), which, in
turn, provide rural services to their communities, including the construction
and maintenance of rural roads, water supply schemes, masques and schools.
The CLCCD, headed by a Secretary General who has the rank of minister, is
adequately staffed with administrative and technical personnel and receives
its budget from government allocations, mainly from the agricultural
production taxes. The CLCCD is active in the project area and will be
responsible for the O&M of the project-financed rehabilitated irrigation
schemes (para. 43).
Growth Potential and Major Constraints
26.      Although constrained by limited endowment in water resources, YAR
has significant potential for agricultural development which may be realized
by improving technology in rainfed areas (which account for over 80 percent
of cultivable land) and through improvements in irrigated areas (accounting
for the remaining 20 percent). The main constraints to the achievement of
this potential include: a shortage of public funds and skilled manpower,
until recently an overvalued currency, institutional weaknesses including



- 8 -
weak agricultural support and credit services, lack of O&M services, and poor
water resources management. An additional constraint has been the rise in
labor costs caused by the emigration of rural workers and rapid growth of
remittances relative to the low levels of agricultural productivity,
particularly at times of peak demand for increased output. However, the
economic slowdown in the oil-exporting countries, along with the start of the
oil era in YAR, is causing the return of some Yemeni workers, a development
which is leading to a decline in real wages in YAR. The overvalued currency
has encouraged imports of cereals and flour at low local prices, thereby
depressing prices of domestically produced grains, and has been instrumental
in increasing foreign exchange shortages which in turn have led to restricted
imports of agricultural inputs. However, the recent sharp depreciation of
the Yemeni ral and the substantial reduction in real wages are considerably
improving the competitiveness of domestic production vis-&--vis imports, and
hence improving the outlook for agriculture. This improvement has been
supported by government measures such as the imposition of bans on the import
of several agricultural products, such as fruits and poultry; import
licensing; and subsidies on water, fertilizer and nursery stock. The
continuation of these measures could lead to distortions in resource
allocation and is not justified given the persistent budget deficit and the
fact thrt agriculture enjoys a high level of natural protection (due to the
strong consumer preference for domestic ptoduction and the perishability and
bulkiness of competing imports). The severity of this deficit argues against
public sector involvement in direct production (para. 27) and in favor of
limiting government involvement to the provision of support services (such as
extension and research). The Government also has an important role to play
in irrigation which, however, should be limited during the coming three years
to: (a) the proper maintenance of existing waterworks; (b) the control of
excessive ground water extraction; and (c) the improvement of irrigation
efficiency. To assess available potential, several in-depth studies of water
resources in various regions of YAR are being undertaken (for example, under
Tihama IV - Credit 978-YAR; Central Highlands - Credit 1453-YAR; and Wadi
Al-Jawf - Credit 1584-YAR). The Government is also considering the
preparation of a national water master plan. Furthermore, the Government
looks to external financial aAd technical assistance, particularly to IDA, to
address the problem of institutional development.
Government Obiectives and Development StrateRy
27.      The Government's development strategy for the sector is under review
in the Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP) (1987-91), which is currently being
prepared with assistance from IDA under an IDA-executed UNDP-financed
project. The Government's strategy in the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) was
to achieve a reasonable level of self-sufficiency in food production through
emphasis on: (a) the development of agricultural services; (b) the
mobilization of potential water resources and increasing water use
efficiency; (c) multi-component rural development; (d) the establishment of
strategic buffer stocks of staple crops; (e) completion of basic
infrastructure; (f) the adoption of a price policy supporting domestic
production and rationalizing consumption; and (g) the establishment of
cooperatives. While some of these objectives, such as the development of
support services and increased efficiency of water use, will remain relevant
under the TFYP, large-scale multi-component rural development projects, which



-9-
characterized Government involvement in agriculture in the early seventies,
need to be reconsidered because they would be expensive in terms of recurrent
costs. Moreover, it is expected that the measures recently introduced are
transitory and do not represent a permanent departure from the Government's
policy of reliance on the private sector and of an open economy (para. 26).
28.      IDA's Agricultural Strategy Paper (teport No. 5574, May 1, 1986)
recommended a strategy whereby the Government's policy on investment in the
agricultural sector would focus on creating an adequate supportive framework
for private sector activities. The Paper also recom ended: (a) establishing
relatively less expensive regional extension services; (b) developing low
cost, self-financing irrigation improvement projects; and (c) improving the
agricultural marketing infrastructure to reflect the rapid changes in
consumption patterns. A national water master plan; the building up of
necessary reserve stocks by the Government through imports; and the
establishment of an O&M service of completed irrigation projects are also
emphasized. The Government has indicated that it will reflect these
recommendations to the extent possible in its TFYP.
IDA's Strategy and Operations in the Agriculture Sector
29.      IDA's strategy in the agricultural sector has aimed at assisting the
country in attaining its development objectives of raising agricultural
productivity in areas of known potential, increasing farmers' incomes and
thereby improving the standard of living of the rural population. To this
end, IDA ha. yiarticipated in development projects mainly emphasizing the
establishment and strengthening of institutional capabilities in research,
credit, extension and irrigation impiovement. Although the broad objectives
of the above strategy remain valid, IDA's policy has shifted more recently,
frou assisting the Government in the implementation of area-specific rural
development projects, to the provision of support services and the creation
of an appropriate environment, on a regional basis, so that the private
sector can operate efficiently in production and marketing. IDA's strategy
has been further refined to assist Government's efforts in promoting the
production (by the private sector) of fruits, vegetables and cereals and to
further assist in strengthening MAP with a view to developing agricultural
support services at the national level. The Government attaches considerable
importance to IDA's assistance and the proposed project, in line with IDA's
strategy of supporting government development objectives, is designed with
due consideration for resource constraints.
Experience with Past Lending
30.      IDA has assisted in financing 14 agricultural projects in YAR, of
which 6, totalling $56.9 million in IDA credits, have been completed,
including one (First Southern Uplands Rural Development Project, SURDP I-
Credit 545-YAR) which was the first integrated rural development project in
YAR.  in general, these have beeu successful in achieving their main
objectives, including the establishment and strengthening of institutions in
credit, extension and research, and they have 4ttracted a number of
cofinancing agencies, mobilizing about $114 million in additional resources.
In addition to its lending operations, IDA also provided assistance to
strengthen MAF through the UNDP-financed project for institutional support to
MAP, for which IDA was the executing agency. Thue Project Performance and



- 10 -
Audit Reports for Tihama I and SURDP I, and the draft completion reports on
Tihama II and IV are generally positive about their achievements,
particularly the implementation of physical infrastructure and the
establishment of extension services. However, yield increases have so far
been limited, because of the long-term nature of this impact. The above
reports, as well as the reports on tbe Grain Storage and Processing and the
Livestock Development Projects, which encountered significant problems,
highlighted, in particular, the following difficulties encountered in project
implementation: Ca) slow mobilization of the agencies being newly
established; (b) shortage of technical and administrative staff; (c)
escalation in project costs due to delayed execution; (d) ineffectiveness of
monitoring and evaluation programs; (c) weak coordination between research
and extension; and (f) absence of O&M services.
31.      Ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural projects include SURDP II and
Tibama Development III, Agricultural Research and Development, Agricultural
Credit, and Central Highlands Agricultural Development. These projects,
which are at varying stages of implementation, are making satisfactory
progress, generally after experiencing start-up difficulties, particularly
due to financing, managerial and staffing problems of varying degrees of
severity. The Fisheries Development project has, however, had implementation
difficulties in regard to support for artisanal fisheries, despite
satisfactory operation of the infrastructural components. The Wadi Al Jawf
Agricultural Development project is in the start-up stage. A credit for
Tihama V Agricultural Regional Development Project (Cr. 1667-YAR) was signed
in May 1986.
32.      Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects have been taken
into account in designing subsequent projects. The proposed project is
modelled on the experience of earlier successful projects, in that it would
cater to the proven needs for strengthening institutions and providing
agricultural support services and irrigation development in the Southern
Region. However, in line with IDA's recently established strategy, and the
recently approved Tihama V Regional Agricultural Development Project (Credit
1667-YAR), its focus moves away from area specific development to regional
development and would provide the basis for establishing national
institutions for support services.
Proiect Justification and Rationale for IDA Involvement
33.      The proposed project, consistent with the recommendations of the
Agricultural Strategy Paper (para. 28). will build on, and carry forward, the
government policy of improving and disseminating agricultural technologies,
strengthening agricultural support institutions (particularly MAF),
rationally exploiting the country's limited water resources, and providing
special assistance to rural women. IDA's involvement in this project has
also been instrumental in mobilizing the support of other cofinanciers. The
proposed project is designed to encourage private sector involvement and
emphasizes the full exploitation of the production potential of the southern
region of the country. This would be the third IDA-assisted project in this
region, which represents the major part of the country's potential for
rainfed agricultural development. The project will improve and expand on the
earlier SURDP I and [I and provide coverage to parts of the region which have
not yet benefitted from these services.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.      Preparation of the proposed project was completed in February/March
1986, by the Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP)
in cooperation with the Government. The component for rural development for
women was prepared by the FAO/Investment Center in November/December 1985. A
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance in the amount of $400,000
equivalent has been approved to finance the preparation of detailed
engineering designs for the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated (para. 42)
and to finance key agricultural and engineering consultants (para. 46). The
project was appraised by IDA in April/May 1986. Negotiations were held in
Washington from February 1.7 to 20, 1987, with a delegation headed by the
Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, and which included other
representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), the
Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the YAR Embassy in Washington.
Representatives of IFAD and SDC also participated. A staff appraisal report
entitled "Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project" (No. 6407-YAR),
dated March 4, 1987, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the credit and the project are presented in
the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area
is attached (Map IBRD 19801).
Project Objectives and Components
35.      The main objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to increase
agricultural productivity, thus contributing to efficient import substitution
and improving the standard of living of the rural population, through: (i)
improved agricultural services and related services (credit); (ii) improved
utilization of land and water resources; and (iii) special assistance to
women farmers; and (b) to improve the health/nutrition standards of the rural
families through improved extension services to the rural women. To achieve
these objectives, the proposed project includes the following components: (a)
regional agricultural extension service, including rural development for
women; (b) regional veterinary service; (c) tree nursery development; (d)
provision of fertilizer; (e) support to CACB; (f) irrigation development; (g)
establishment of a regional O&M service; and (h) technical assistance and
training. It is designed to strengthen the institutional capacity of MAF
(particularly in regard to extension activities), and to keep the level of
recurrent expenditures to a minimum.
36.      Regional Agricultural Extension Service.  The proposed project would
establish a more effective regional extension service by strengthening the
institutions and expanding existing services to cover all areas of the
Southern Region with high agricultural potential. During the project
implementation period, the SURDU, through its existing Extension Division,
would be responsible for the overall extension program in the region. It
would also develop agricultural extension subsections in each of the Taiz and
Ibb Governorates to take over all agricultural extension responsibilities
after project completion. About 140 extension agents, supervisors and
subject matter specialists (SMSs) (an increase of 34 extensionists over
present levels) would be required at a ratio of I to about 800-900 farm
units. Each agent, operating from the extension center, would be assigned
responsibility for providing assistance in all aspects of the farming system



- 12 -
to resident far families in a specific territory through regular farm vi.sits
to contact farmers. These visits would be supplemented by field
demonstrations to discuss improved technology, with the participation of
farmers, the research organization, CACB and private traders, and information
transfer through mass commumication and audiovisual aids. The agents would
be regularly supervised by extension supervisors and would receive technical
support and in-service training from the SMSs, who would operate from the
block centers. To ensure a strong interrelationship of the extension service
with research, SURDU and ARA would reinforce the existing linkage program and
joint research and extension groups. The project would provide for the
construction of extension buildings, including a training and information
center, the rehabilitation of 27 extension centers built under the SURDP I,
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and training.
37.      Rural Development for Women.  The proposed project would assist in
further developing ongoing activities in rural development for women in the
Southern Region by focusing on both agricultural and non-agricultural
aspects. In response to the increasing role of women in agriculture and,
given the cultural traditions which restrain male extension agents from
contacting women farmers, female extension agents would be employed and
trained to transfer agricultural information to women. This would be done on
a pilot basis appropriate to the availability and acceptability of female
extensionists to undertake such work. The women's extension service would be
organized as an independent entity, largely with separate facilities, under
the overall responsibility of the manager of the rural development for women
program at the extension service at SURDU. It would have a structure similar
to that of the male extension service with subsections at the governorate
level and would use the same extension approach (para. 36). It would consist
of 27 female extension agents, extension supervisors (in the ratio of about 1
to 9) and SMSs in home economics/nutrition matters. Subject matter support
in agriculture would be drawn directly from the male extension service. The
agriculture agents would be responsible for providing assistance in various
aspects of farming (about 1 agent to 500-600 rural women); the home economics
agents would provide assistance in aspects related to health, nutrition and
child care (including child spacing), and the use of "appropriate
technology," which would improve the living and working conditions of the
rural women. The target population would include agricultural women with
smallholdings, agricultural women with livestock, and landless women. The
agents would receive regular technical support and in-service training from
SMSs. The agricultural aspects of the male and female extension services
would be fully coordinated to ensure consistency of the improved technical
packages disseminated by them. In addition, in the first year of project
implementation, the existing women's program of SURDU, assisted by a
consultant, would carry out a detailed baseline survey to provide basic
information for better planning of the program and to serve as a yardstick to
measure progress. The survey, with assistance from village leaders, would
also help in selecting the specific location of the nine extension centers to
be constructed under the project. As a pilot scheme, the impact of the
service, as well as the effectiveness of its operation as an independent
entity, would be closely monitored and evaluated during project
implementation. The project also provides for the purchase of vehicles and
equipment.



- 13 -
38.      Regional Veterinary Service.  The veterinary services currently
carried out by SURDU would be strengthened by supplementing the existing
service with two veterinarians and nine veterinary assistants and expanded to
cover the whole Southern Region. The existing animal production staff, whose
activities are extension by nature, would be transferred from SURDU's
veterinary service to the extension service by December 31, 1987.
Vaccination would continue to be carried out as part of a preventive program
free of cost to livestock owners. However, the costs of other treatments
would be recovered from livestock owners. The organization of the service
would be similar to that of extension, with headquarters at SURDU and
sub-sectious at the governorate level. This component would iaclude the
provision of vehicles and equipment.
39.      Tree Nursery Development.  In order to satisfy the increasing
domestic demand for fruit and coffee seedlings, which are sold to farmers at
cost, nursery capacity under the project would be expanded. A new nursery
specializing in deciduous plant production would be established at Yarim (Ibb
Governorate); production at the existing Ibb nursery would be rearranged to
specialize mainly in citrus production and the existing nursery at Warazan
(Taiz Governorate) would be expanded to provide additional capacity for
coffee and tropical fruits.  This component would include construction works
and the purchase of equipment and vehicles.
40.      Provision of Fertilizer.  At present, availability of fertilizer in
the project area is inadequate. Urea obtained by the Government, mainly
through foreign grants, and is sold to local traders at prevailing market
prices. However, the supply does not fully satisfy demand and is not
provided on a timely basis.. So far, the demand for phosphate and potash has
been small, despite the benefits of their application, and so traders, who
are less familiar with their use than that of urea, have been reluctant to
import these bulky commodities. As a result of project extension activities,
the use of fertilizer will be more vigorously and effectively demonstrated to
farmers, as well as to traders, to familiarize them with the potential
benefits, and the annual unmet estimated demand is expected to increase
considerably. To ensure timely availability of phosphate and potash in the
project area, particularly at the critical promotional stage, SURDU would
import directly the fertilizer provided under the project and sell it to
traders, at cif prices plus a small handling charge, for resale to farmers.
SURDU would forward the proceeds it receives from the sale of fertilizer to
the Ministry of Finance. The project would finance, for four years of the
project beginning in 1988, the purchase of 7,000 and 1,400 tons of phosphate
and potash, respectively. This financing would cover a declining proportion
of the total annual project requirements. It is expected that the traders
would meet the additional demand for urea, and to ensure its timely
availability, the Government will provide advance information to the private
sector on the timing and quantities of fertilizer available under foreign
grants and simplify the procedures for granting import licenses for
fertilizer.
41.      Support to CACB.  It is estimated that 60 percent of the farmers
expected to adopt the recommended improved agricultural and irrigation
practices (including home-economics related "appropriate technology") would
require additional medium-term credit for on-farm investments (including



- 14 -
irrigation, machinery and tree crop development) and short-term credit for
inputs (fertilizer, seeds, pesticides, etc.). CACB (para. 23) has undertaken
to meet the incremental credit needs of the project. In order to serve new
areas that would result from expansion of project activities where CACB is
not currently present (the extreme western and the eastern parts of the
project area), the proposed project would provide financing for the
establishment of two subbranches, and for the purchase of six additional
vehicles.
42.      Irrigation Development.  This component would aim at increasing
irrigation efficiency by reducing water losses in the main canal and
clistribution system through the installation of buried PVC pipes, the
construction of permanent control structures and the introduction of land
smoothing and levelling, and by rehabilitating, on a pilot basis, about six
existing irrigation schemes including some small dams, to serve a net area of
about 350 ha. Further increases in irrigation efficiency would be sought
through the use of sprinkler and drip irrigation. To achieve this, the
project would establish 11 pump-irrigated and 11 sprinkler and drip-irrigated
demonstration farms, for which the farmers would provide the land and the
wells. In addition, the project provides for a study, to be carried out in
two stages, to assess the potential for the construction of an irrigation dam
on Wadi Bana, which has its catchment area in YAR and is a major source of
surface water flow in the project area. The first stage would involve site.
identification, and the second a complete feasibility study. Since Wadi Bana
ftlows out of YAR and discharges into the Gulf of Aden through PDRY where its
waters are also used for irrigation, the terms of reference for both stages
of study include the full investigation of any potential riparian issue
(para. 56).
43.      Regional Operation and Maintenance (05M) Service.  An O&M service
would be established for the Southern Region to maintain buildings and
equipment, including those provided under SURDP I and II projects, to provide
technical assistance to the CLCCD in the maintenance of irrigation and water
supply schemes (para. 47) and to assist the extension service in the design
and implementation of on-fanm irrigation works. The service would be
structured on lines similar to other support services under the project.
During the project implementation period, the overall responsibility for the
service would be entrusted to the O&M Division of SURDU's Engineering
Department. Subsequently, and as their capabilities are developed, this
responsibility would be transferred to the O0M sections at the Ibb and Taiz
Governorate levels. This service would be properly linked with MAF
headquarters as a step towards the establishment of a national organization
for O&M. The project provides for the construction of buildings and purchase
of equipment and vehicles.
44.      Technical Assistance.  About 58 staff-years of technical assistance
would be provided in the fields of agricultural extension, rural development
for women, veterinary, irrigation improvement and operation and maintenance
services. This is designed so that the expatriate experts would gradually be
phased out over 4-5 years and, thereafter, services would be provided solely
by the national staff. The agricultural experts would assist SURDU at the
headquarters level in the overall planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the agriculture extension activities, including rural



- 15 -
development for women. They would also provide technical support and
training to extension staff at the governorate level. The engineering
experts and consultants would assist SURDU in the design and construction
supervision of the irrigation infrastructure work, the establishment of an
D&M service and the Wadi Bana Dam study.  The terms of reference of the
experts and consultants would emphasize training of Yemeni staff to pave the
way for a smooth and effective takeover by the Yemenis of the major tasks of
the project. The Go&ernment will appoint qualified and experienced experts
in accordance with the appointment schedule agreed with IDA.
45.      Training.  In addition to the on-the-job, project-related training
provided by the appointed experts, the project would provide for higher level
foreign training in agriculture and engineering and study tours to countries
where successful extension and O&M program are under implementation. The
Training Unit of the SURDU's Extension Division would be responsible for the
overall planning, preparation of curricula and implementation of the local
training program and would provide training to local staff in the fields of
project-related technology, project orientation and extension methodology.
This detailed training program, including the curricula, would be submitted
to IDA by April 1, 1988, and would also provide refresher courses to the
SKSs. The selection of pesticides in extension packages, the inherent
dangers and the optimum use of farm chemicals (para. 55) would be important
elements of training given to extension staff. In addition, the training of
the female agents of the rural development for women program would include an
introduction to agriculture and to home economics/nutrition/health (including
child care and child spacing).
Project Implementation
46.      Project preparation is at an advanced stage.  Engineering designs
for building construction scheduled to begin during the first two years of
project implementation are completed and those for the rehabilitation of the
irrigation schemes will be finalized by consultants with financing from an
IDA PPF advance (para. 34). Benefitting from its experience under SURDP I
and II, where similar buildings were constructed, SURDU's engineering unit
would prepare tender documents and the final construction drawings. It would
also design and supervise the construction of demonstration farms and assist
in their operation. Several key staff are already in place and contracts of
five key experts in agriculture and engineering originally employed under
SUEDP II have been extended, beginning January 1, 1987 to bridge the gap
between completion of SURDP II and start-up of the proposed project.
47.      The project would be implemented over a six-year period.
Responsibility for implementation, including the establishment of regional
support services, would rest with the SURDU, which would carry out the
regional activities through its agricultural and engineering departments and
would establish agricultural support sub-sections at the Taiz and Ibb
Governorates in the Agricultural Directorates of the MAF. The 08& of the
rehabilitated irrigation schemes and of water supply schemes would be the
responsibility of the CLCCD, with technical assistance from SURDU. SURDU
would hand over to the CLCCD the completed rehabilitated schemes. MAF has
entered into an agreement with CLCCD, detailing the responsibilities of SURDU
and CLCCD in this regard. Monitoring and Evaluation (ME) of the physical



- 16 -
and financial aspects of project inputs, the impact of the extension service,
including the rural development for women component, and the status of
surface and groundwater resources would be performed by SURDU's M&E Unit
under the direct control of SURDU's manager, assisted by an M&E officer at
each of the two Governorates. An M&E system would be established by April 1,
1988 to measure progress made towards achieving specific objectives.
48.      The CACB would be the principal agency to provide credit to
beneficiaries of the region (paia. 41). In evaluating loan applications,
particularly those that involve major on-farm investments, CACB would
coordinate its credit policies and operations with the technical advice
provided by SURDU. To ensure this, CACB and SURDU have entered into an
agreement establishing the operational procedures for coordination.
Proiect Cost and Financing
49.      The cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
allowances for expected price increases, is estimated at $28.5 million, with
a foreign exchange component of $17.3 million or 61 percent of total cost.
The base cost is calculated using unit costs of May 1986 adjusted to the end
of January 1987. The costs of vehicles and machinery include the necessary
provision for spare parts. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 15
percent on construction costs and 10 percent on equipmeut. Annual allowances
for expected price increases on the foreign exchange component were
calculated at 3.0 percent in 1987, 1.0 percent in 1988-1990 and 3.5 percent
in 1991-1993; and on the local component at 35 percent in 1987-1988, 30
percent in 1989-1990, 20 percent in 1991 and 15 percent in 1992-1993. The
project will be exempt from local duties and taxes. The annual incremental
recurrent cost of regional services, including the OEM cost of the irrigation
schemes, from the sixth year project implementation is estimated in 1986
prices at $1.9 million equivalent. Assurances were obtained from the
Government during negotiations that such funds would be made available in the
necessary amount and in time.
50.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 9.8 million (US$12.3 million
equivalent) would finance 71 percent of the foreign exchange component or
about 43 percent of the total project cost. The balance of the project cost
(US$16.2 million) would be financed by other cofinanciers and the YAR
Government. IFAD has agreed, in principle, to finance the rural development
for women component (about $2.5 million), and SDC has agreed, in principle,
to finance the irrigation and OUM components (about $5.8 million
equivalent). Negotiations for the IFAD loan and the SDC grant have been
completed. All financing will be on a parallel basis except for the
construction of the training and information center, to be used by the
extension service including the rural development for women program, which
will be financed jointly by IFAD and IDA. IDA has agreed to administer the
IFAD and SDC contributions and the signing of agreements between the
Government and the cofinanciers. and the satisfaction of conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of those agreements would be special conditions of
effectiveness for the IDA credit.



- 17 -
Procurement
51.      A procurement plan for items eligible for financing from the
proposed project is presented in the table below. Procurement of all project
items would be carried out by SURDU. The procurement for construction works
of major buildings for the extension service, the rural development for women
services and for the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, as well as
procurement of vehicles, equipment and machinery, would be by international
Procurement Procedure 11,/2
ICB         LCB      Shopping    N.A/3       Total
(US$ million)
Civil Works              4.5 (1.6)   5.4(3.7)  -  -          -  -       9.9 (5.3)
Vehicles, Equipment,
Machinery & Furniture   3.0 (1.7)   1.2(0.6)  0.3(0.3)    -  -         4.5 (2.6)
Fertilizer                                      1.7(l.6)    -  -        1.7 (1.6)
Consultants and Experts  -  -         -   -     -  -         4.1(2.1)   4.1 (2.1)
Foreign Training         -  -         -   -     -  -         0.9(0.7)   0.9 (0.7)
Recurrent Costs          -  -         -   -     -  -         7.4( - )   7.4 ( - )
TOTAL               7.5(3.3)    6.6(4.3)  2.0(1.9)   12.4(2.8)  28.5 (12.3)
jl   Figures present in parentheses are the respective amounts 'inanced by IDA
credit. Costs include contingencies.
(2   Procurement of items financed by SDC and IFAD would be carried out in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
13  Not applicable.
competitive bidding (ICE). Construction of small and scattered buildings
(mainly extension, CACE and nursery facilities), and the rehabilitation of old
extension centers, which cannot be grouped and which would each cost less than
$200,000 would be procured by local competitive bidding (LCD) procedures up to
an aggregate of $5.4 million over the entire project implementction period.
Miscellaneous goods, which cannot be grouped and which would cost less than
$50,000 each could also be procured by LCB procedures up to an aggregate cost
of $1.2 million over the same period. YAR's LCB procedures are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project but to make them fully consistent with IDA's procurement guidelines,
agreement was obtained from the Government at negotiations on the minor
improvements to be made. In addition, to expedite project mobilization,
vehicles, and equipment costing about $300,000 are being procured through
shopping procedures, of which about $80,000 would be financed under the IDA PPF
advance (para. 34). Fertilizer would also be procured following shopping
procedures. Standard IDA guidelines would be followed for the recruitment of
consultants to be financed under the project. For civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, eaa for goods estimated to cost
$100,000 or more, IDA would review and apprcve tender documents and contracts
before they are issued/awarded.



- 18 -
Disbursements
52.      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over seven years as
follows: 100 percent of total expenditures for construction and rehabilitation
works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for fertilizer, technical assistance
and training; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles, equipment and machinery financed by the IDA credit.
This schedule is generally consistent with the country profile, with
disbursements beginning under the PPF advance prior to credit effectiveness.
For all contracts under $50,000 equivalent in both foreign and local currency,
withdrawals Erom the credit account will be carried out on the basis of
statements of expenditure. In order to expedite disbursements, two Special
Accounts (revolving funds) would be established: the IDA Special Account for
$800,000, and the SDC Special Account in US dollars equivalent to SwF 700,000.
53.      Proiect Auditing and Reporting.  SURDU would maintain separate records
and accounts of project expenditures. Project accounts, including those for
the Special Account and the statements of expenditure, would be audited
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited statements of these
accounts would be sumitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. SURDU would also prepare comprehensive quarterly progress reports on all
components of the project and submit them to IDA within two months following
the report period. The Government would prepare a Project Completion Report.
Cost Recovery
54.      The six irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated under the project are
small, covering in all, an area of only about 350 ha, and scattered throughout
the project area of about 200,000 ha. The cast recovery arrangements agreed
upon for the large, new irrigation investments financed by IDA under the Tibama
projects provided for an additional surcharge to be levied on the
beneficiaries.  However, such procedure would be costly and administratively
difficult to apply for these operations which are in the nature of
rehabilitation rather than new investments. However, costs would be recovered
through the existing agricultural production taxes (zasat --' and the
cooperation tax).  These taxes are based on the beneficiaries' gross value of
production and hence expected to increase in amount, following the
rehabilitation of the schemes and the resulting incremental output.  It is
estimated that annual incremental taxes generated by 1997, i.e., at full
development. would be sufficient to recover the annual O&M cost and the full
capital cost, without interest, in 17 years, even if only 60 percent of the
amount due from the beneficiaries is collected.
Environmental Impact
55.      The project is not expected to generate any environmental hazards,
although the use of fertilizer and pesticides is expected to increase. The
selection and handling of pesticides in extension packages would be made in
accordanee with IDA guidelines. This selection, the inherent dangers and the
care required in their use would be an important part of the training of
extession staff and advice to farmers. Because of their important role in
educating the farmers, dealers/agents would be advised of the requirements for
proper storage of chemicals and disposal of chemical containers. Their use



- 19 -
would be closely monitored by the extension service in coordination with ARA.
Moreover, the use of agricultural chemicals would be complemented by the use of
disease-resistant crop varieties and improved cultural practices which would in
many cases reduce disease incidence.
Riparian Issues
56.      There are no international water rights issues related to the
development work under the project except for a possible riparian issue that
might arise from the Wadi Bana Dam study (para. 42). The effect of the
proposed dam on the current use of Wadi Bana waters in PDRY would therefore be
fully examined in both stages of the study. Agreement was obtained from the
Government at negotiations that, folloving the identification stage, it would
provide IDA with the findings of the first stage of the study and that IDAs
agreement would be sought before proceeding with the feasibility study under
the project to ensure that any possible riparian issues would be considered in
accordance with standard IDA policy.
Project Benefits
57.      The project is expected to benefit approximately 120,000 farm families
or about 670,000 people. These include an estimated 3,225 farm families who
would benefit from the additional water available for irrigation resulting from
the irrigation infrastructure works and on-farm investments improving
irrigation efficiency. The development activities for women are expected to
benefit about 10,000 households representing about 8 percent of the farm
population. The project would also provide temporary employment of landless
people as, in some cases, the seasonal peak labor demand will exceed the
available family labor, and would benefit sharecroppers engaged in farming on
the larger irrigated farms. Furthermore, the rural development for women
program would result in improvements in health, nutrition standards and
reductions in infant and child mortality. Improved agricultural practices
would result in increased yields and more efficient use of land and water
resources.
Economic Rate of Return
58.      The economic rate of return (ERR) based on the directly productive
components associated with investments in irrigation infrastructure and the
incremental agricultural production is estimated at 16 percent. Analysis
results show that the viability of the project is relatively insensitive to
moderate changes in costs and benefits. With a 20 percent increase in costs or
decrease in benefits, the ERR would be 14 percent and 13 percent respectively,
and 13 percent with a 2 year lag in implementation. The ERR would remain above
12 percent despite a 37 percent increase in costs or a 27 percent decrease in
benefits. The ERR of the irrigation schemes has also been calculated
separately and is estimated to be about 17 percent. This would drop to 12
percent with a 20 percent increase in costs or 2 year delay in implementation,
and 11 percent with a 20 percent decrease in benefits.
-' Religious tithe.



- 20 -
Risks
59.      There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  The risk
faced by other IDA-assisted projects in YAK in recent years of inadequate
local budgetary support resulting in delays in construction and staffing
schedules is a real one in the present economic climate of the country, and
is likely to continue until the impact of the oil discovery is felt. The
project has been designed to keep the level of recurrent expenditures, and
tbus the burden on the Government's budget, to a minimum. To further
minimize this risk, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the budget
required to cover the government portion of project expenditures would be
provided on time, and that agricultural credit would be provided in
sufficient amounts to eligible project area farmers to ensure their adoption
of the improved practices.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the preposed Credit.
B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington DC
March 10, 1987



- 21 -
Page 1 of 2
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH It)
1331                    (Constant Price)
($m - Current Prices)         FYfl77-Z4       123
GNP at Market Prices                3.718W/                   S              3W/
GOP at Market Prices                3.279W/                   6              3W)
Imports of GNFS                     1,518                     3            -5
Exports of GNFS                        220                   13             -7
Consumption                          N.A.                     3            N.A.
ot which:  Goverruent             1.122/                  16           -11W/
Investment                           N.A.                     6             N.A.
Gross National Savings               N.A.                   -10              N.A.
A/: estimate
OUTPUT- LADoR FORCE ANO PRODUCTIVITY fgl81I
Value Added    Rugidet Labor Farce         V.A. Per Worker
S  ln            ThhusnwId       I           
Agriculture             820       33         830        69          9a8       47
Industry                206        a          54         4        3 815     182
Services              1A492       52         .11        2        4fil       .23
TOTAL/AVERAGE   2L5lt        mm        1L202      Ji0       2LQ4        in0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls tini
% of GNP
19721/79 12 ]Z23    nil     tW      13 1931 t153                   S
Current Receipts               2.161   2.755    3.329   3,692   4.401   4,646         5.366       22.2
Current Expenditures           1.847   2,531    3.325   5,286   6,201   5,957         6,064       25.1
Current ODflcit(-)/Surplus(+)  314        224         4  -1,594  -1,800  -1.307        -698       -2.9
Capital Expenditures           2.618   2.492    3.683   4.017   2.944   3,100         2.848       T1.8
Extrabudgetary Expenditures        -      523      792   1,764       922     967      2.140        8.9
Overall Deficit                  848   2,333    2.949   5,262   4,807   4.609         5.01S       20.8
External Assistance. Net       1.904      976    2.436   2.956   1.752   1.563        1.414        5.9
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDrT AND PRICES
-----RIs Nilli1n Outstanding End Period----
I=n   n9M   In   nI   am   Ia
Money Supply                      9.180      9.90S    12.S19   15.967  20.364   24.430
Domestic Credit                   4.956      7.273    11.834   15.981  20.928   25.991
Of which:
Claims on Government           (2.017)   (4.039)   (8.454) (12361)(16.168) (20.430)
Claim an Private Sector        (2.939)   (3.234)   (3.380)  (3.620) (4.760)  (5.561)
Net Foreign Assets                6.263      4.768     3.176    2.237   2.15B    1.461
Other                            -2.039    -2.136    -2.491   -2.251  -2,722   -3.022
----- ---  - ErCeatasm- ---- ----  ---
1fln/sD    7sa     I=8       I=8      i98      I8
Money Supply as  percent of GNP       63        64       69       83       100       101
Annual Increase (percent) in:
Hney Supply                       16         8      26        28        28        20
Consuer Price Index               11         5       3         5        13        27



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ($ Min)
1978/79   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Exports of Goods, fob                3      13     10       5     10      9      9
Imports of Goods, cif          -1,250  -1,915 -1,748 -1,952 -1,765 -1,403 -1,227
Trade Balance                   -1,247  -1.902 -1,738 -1.947 -12755 -1.394 -1.218
Non Factor Services, net           -36     -21    -51    -37    -51    -45    -80
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                     833    1084    788    924   1085    986    857
Official Grants                    312     148    337    468    186    142    102
Balance on Current Account        -138    -691   -664   -592   -535   -311   -339
M & LT Capital, net a/             104     452    205    188    197    150    116
Disbursue nts oan loans       (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (220)  (213)  (163)
Repayments of loans           (-LO)   (-15)  (-57)  (-44)  (-23)  (-63)  (-47)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net       204     200    198     93    125      65     46
overall Balance (- - deficit)      170     -39   -261   -311   -213    -96   -177
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                         DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1985) b/
($ million)                1985                           .1
Total Outstanding          2,559                              11
of which disbursed        (1,868)
a/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information compiled on
a loan-by-loan basis.
b/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
ENWA
Novetber 1986
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -:



- 21 -
Page 2 of 2
BALANCE OF PAYI4NTS IS "in'
Exports of Coods. fob                 3       13      la      5      IC      9       9
Irports of Goods. c1t            -12_SO  -191S -1,745 -1.952 -1.765 -1.403 -1,227
Trade Balance                    d.247  .1S02  1Z7S  -jW  -_1W  d1J394 -1.216
Mon Factor services, net            -36      -21    -51    -37    -51    -45    -a0
Transfers and Faetor
tnc.  net                         833    1004    788    924   lO8S    9S6    857
Official Grants                     312      14    337    46S    I6       142    102
Balance on Current Account         -1Il      SR1    6 fi4   i52   a-i      2U    :1
i & LT Capital. net I/        II             452      =       MU    .z33   IS      116
Disbursusents on loans         (114)   (4657   (262)  (2323  (220)  (213)  (1533
Rep)emnts of loans             (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-443  (-23)  (-63)  Idfl.
Other Capital (including
errors and alluSions). net        us       2n                    .21 6 5  5
Overall Balance (- - deficit)       170      -39   -261   -311   -213    -96   -177
QrTRIAL BUSLIC DE6T                            sEBT SEtrVICE RATIO r1oss bh
(5 million)                   1                                 %
Total Outstanding            2.CC9                                11
of whicti disbursed         (1,865)
A/ Based on figures published in the Central BaSnk's financial statistical
bulletins. These rigures differ slightly from debt information cempiled on
a loan-by-loan basis.
D/ Workers remittances and transfers Included In denonstator.
EMIDA
November 1986



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1986)
(Amount in $ millions)
Year         Obligor               Tne of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Products       3.15       -       3.15
rndustries Co. Ltd.
1983/   Yemen Dry Batteries        Dry Cell Batteries  3.25      0.91      4.16
1955
1984    National Company for       Vegetable Oil        4.58       -       4.58
Vegetable Oil and Ghee
Indus:tries
1985    Yemen Hunt Oil Company    Oil Refinery          9.00       -       9.00
1986    Karib Agriculture Company Citrus Fruit          2.40     0.46      2.86
Total Gross Commitments                       22.38      1.37     23.75
less cancellations, terminations,            2.70     0.36       3.06
repayments, sales
Total commitments now held by IFC             19.68      1.01     20.69
Total Disbursed                               19.23      0.58     19.81
Total Undisbursed                              2.40      0.46      2.86
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of n
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SOUTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare        3 years
the project:
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:       FAOICP, FAO/IC and HUF
(c)  First presentation to IDA:                 June 1, 1984
Cd) Departure of appraisal mission:             April 16, 1986
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                February 20, 1987
(2) Planned date of effectiveness:              October 30, 1987
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA:
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a) Condition of Effectiveness:
Fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
cofinanciers' loan agreements (para. 50).
(b) Other Conditions:
(i)    Five Animal Production staff to be transferred from SURDU's
Veterinary Service to its Extension Service by December 31, 1987
(para. 38);
(ii)    Government to: (a) provide timely advance information to the private
sector on the timing and quantities of fertilizer available under
foreign grants; and (b) simplify the procedures for granting import
licenses for fertilizer (para. 40);



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii)    Government to appoint qualified and experienced experts in
accordance with the appointment schedule agreed with IDA (para. 44);
(iv)    Government to submit a detailed training program to IDA by April 1,
1988 (para. 45);
(v)    SURDU to establish a monitoring and evaluation system by April 1,
1988 (para. 47);
(vi)    Government to seek IDA's agreement, following identification stage
of Wadi Bana study, before proceeding with feasibility study to
ensure consideration of any riparian issues (para. 56).



YE MEN  ARAB REP U B LI C
IDA - ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
SAUDI ARABIA
PROJECTS:
=w^t$ . =Agricultural
MID   Cooperative and Agriculturol Credit
Bank.CACB
U    Agricultural Research Centers
>  -   -:     X                            -       9 8   : ; t - >                                             *    Demonstration Farms
-    Grain Storage
\.~~~~ *                                  --                                                   e*   Fisherbes
FID   fish Markets
Industrial
ffl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~444.K.g                                                                 A Education
~~j~~4~~::;V               - ~~Highway
Highway Maintenance
ii ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Power Distribution Areas
T                                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~5~-~    Power Stations
----Transmissioi' Lines
Port Development
Urban Development
EXISTING  FEATURES:16
f                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary Roads
41  ~ ~ ~ i~~4j~~~~~ps   *. ~~Secondary Roads
AirPorts
Ports
-  4r           .                      ~~~~~~~~Wadis
lhowba ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~               6 ~~~~~~~~Govemnorote Capitols
/1?                             ,~~~~~~~~~7 r<>~~~~~~~~  r ~~~~~                        Monb ~~~~~~~National Capitals
Vi  Ii  ~ ~ ~ ~   *Ht~~~~.*,j\           !~~~~<   ~     ~        ~~   *~~.Qfl~~~~~V                     -  -   ~~Province Boundaries
a~~~~~a  \  I                                                                           - . -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
Elevation in meters:
--0



0                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FISCAL YEAR
oh                 PROJEC                                 ~~~~~~~~~~APPROVED
1  mighw" 1                                  1972
* Tih'mao Agricultura     O                  1973
* Education I                                 197?4
I .aybaii 0 .   i   ;  j* Soncia Wafer Supply I1                                                 1974
* Sall Ind ustry Deveiopment                  1974
*Southern Uplands Rural Development I       11975
*Hdeida Wafer Supply A Sewerage               1975
* Educotion 11                                1976
*Grain Storage & Pracessiing                1976
*Livestocli Credit & Processing             1977
*Sonia Water Supply EN    & Sewerage          1977
* Part Devselopment I                         1977
Highways III                   ~~~~1978
Tihormo Agriculture    D       m           1978
A  ' /  /   kr  * Power Distribution                   1979
Tihamno Agriculture III                    1979
Education III                              1979
PEOPLE'S   DEM. REP. OF   YEMEN                                                              lbb A Dhomor Water Supply A Sewerage   1980
PEOPLE'S   DEM.  REP..OF  YEMEN                                                              Tihomo Agriculture   IV                    1980
Aulisonal Fisheries I                      I1t2
ADEN                      Southern Uplands Rural Development   cn  1981
+Power II Regional Elserification          19111
ETHIOPIA  90    o'b                                                                                            industrial Development                      1981
C a        Mand                                                                                                 Education IV                               19S2
Urban I                                     1912
Agricultural Research A Development        1982
High,vays IV                               1982
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             ~         ~~~~~~~~~~Petraolumn a Qotlsermol  1982
Health                                     1983
Agricultural Credit                        1983
Pduower    V1983
Gulf  of  Aden                                                              Powedurto II                               11913
a,           ~~~~~DJBOUTI                                                                                                                                       Censrol Highlands Agricultural Development 119114
Urban Development It                       3984
Highways V                                 1984
FduCetian VI                               1914
Wadi.AI.iawi Agricultural Development      1933
r   s...,w,: f                                                                                                                                                   Second Industrial Development               3915
nern  w/wsflshI.~ab4v          J           .-- ..'                                                                                                                     Technical Assistance to Central
rdh -j .If                          .                                                                                                                        Planning Organization ICPO)               1985T
f      lw d                                                                            O A                40       60                                                  TWchnled Trtring                           1986
-" oo , w             -                                                                   KILOMETERS                                                                ra   V Rsgnd Dt 1-86
10
a'    *S, -                                                                                                                                                                         P ,OPEE
PEa w,b  ,. a'-
o /_ 4,4@ ----                -                                                                                                                                                                                               M



