Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1772 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 17, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1772 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1987, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; 
(B)
in order to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower intends 
to obtain from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan in an 
amount equivalent to
SDR 2,000,000 (the IFAD Loan) and a grant from the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) 
of the Swiss Government in the amount of 10,000,000 Swiss Francs (the Swiss Grant), 
under agreements (the Co-financing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and IFAD and the Borrower and SDC; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Area" means the two Governorates of Taiz and Ibb of the 
Borrower;
(b)
"Ministry" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries of the 
Borrower;
(c)
"SURDU" means the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit, established 
under Ministerial Decree No. 26 of 1975, of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture, to 
assume the responsibility for the implementation of agricultural and rural development 
projects in the Project area;
(d)
"CACB" means the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank of the 
Borrower;
(e)
"Credit Special Account" and "Grant Special Account" mean the accounts 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Confederation" means the Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative 
Development. established and operating under the Borrower's Law Number 12 of 1985; and
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
July 17, 1986 and August 13, 1986 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nine million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 9,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special accounts in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. One of such accounts shall be for the Credit (the Credit Special 
Account) and the other shall he for the Swiss Grant (the Grant Special Account). 
Deposits into, and payments out of the special accounts shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Page  3
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be  withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 
1, 1997, and ending March 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on March 1, 2007 shall he one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through
SURDU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, agricultural and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 o this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  4
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Credit and Grant Special Accounts, 
for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  And that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure the allocation of amounts sufficient 
to meet the full operation and maintenance costs of all facilities and services to be 
established under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Ministry and the Confederation to conclude 
arrangements whereby the Confederation shall be required to undertake the operation 
and maintenance of the irrigation works under Part G (2) of the Project and the water 
supply schemes in the Project area, with the assistance of SURDU and pursuant to its 
technical guidelines.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of 
this Section:
(i)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Swiss 
Grant or the 
IFAD Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(ii)
such Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
 
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
Page  5
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Co-Financing Agreements providing the 
Borrower, for purposes of the Project, with the Amount referred to in Recital B of the 
Preamble to this Agreement have been concluded between the borrower and the IFAD and 
the Borrower and SDC and that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of such 
Co-financing Agreements, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date 120 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of the Central Planning 
Organization of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
CENPLAN
2266 CENPLAN YE
SANA'A
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
249423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives. have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ M. A. Alaini
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. P. Thalwitz
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit and of the Swiss Grant to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
                       Amount          Amount
                       of the       of the Swiss
                       Credit           Grant           % of
                      Allocated       Allocated       Expendi-
                     (Expressed     (Expressed in      tures
                       in SDR      Swiss Francs)       to be
     Category        Equivalent)     Equivalent       Financed
(1)  Works:
     (a) under      3,380,000                         100%
         Parts A,
         D and F of
         the Project
     (b) Training      270,000                        60%
         and Inform-
         ation Center
         under Part B
         of the
         Project
     (c) under Parts                    5,900,000     100%
         G (1) and
         (2) and H of
         the Project
(2)  Goods:
     (a) under       1,830,000                        100% of
         Parts A, C,                                  foreign
         D, F and G                                   expenditures
         of the                                       and 80% of
         Project                                      local
                                                      expenditures
     (b) under                          2,300,000     100% of
         Part H                                       foreign
Page  7
         of the                                       expenditures
         Project                                      and 80% of
                                                      local expen-
                                                      ditures
     (c) under       1,110,000                        100% of
         Part E                                       foreign
         of the                                       expenditures
         Project
(3)  Consultants'
     services:
     (a) under       1,430,000                        100% of
         Parts A,                                     foreign
         C and G                                      expenditures
         of the
         Project
     (b) under                          1,500,000     100% of
         Part H                                       foreign
         of the                                       expenditures
         Project
(4)  Training:
     (a) under         480,000                        100% of
         Part A                                       foreign
         of the                                       expenditures
         Project
     (b) under                            300,000     100% of
         Part H                                       foreign
         of the                                       expenditures
         Project
(5)  Refunding of      330,000
     Project Prepa-
     ration Advance
(6)  Unallocated       970,000
       TOTAL         9,800,000         10,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
When the Association shall have approved an application by the Borrower for 
withdrawal, the Association shall:
(i)
pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled to withdraw 
from the 
Credit Account to or on the order of the Borrower in 
accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(ii)
promptly notify SDC that it has received such application for 
withdrawal from 
the Swiss Grant in the amount specified in such 
notice, that it has approved 
the payment of the portion to be 
Page  8
withdrawn from the Credit Account in the 
amount set forth in 
such notice, and that the portion to be withdrawn from the 
Swiss Grant 
in the amount set forth in such notice is eligible for payment by 
SDC.
 
5.
Any special commitment in respect to the Swiss Grant shall, once it has been 
notified to SDC, constitute an obligation on the part of SDC to pay, notwithstanding 
any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Swiss Grant, the amount to be 
disbursed out of the Swiss Grant in fulfillment of such special commitment.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase agricultural productivity and farm 
income and to improve the health and nutrition standards in the Project area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Extension Services
 
The establishment of a system for agricultural extension services in each of the 
Governorates of Taiz and Ibb, including:
(1)
the construction of buildings for extension services and the rehabilitation of 
existing field extension centers;
(2)
the provision of vehicles and equipment;
 
(3)
the formulation and the carrying out of extension pro- grams, and the assignment 
of the required number of extension staff;
(4)
the formulation and adoption, by SURDU and the Agricultural Research Authority 
of the Borrower, of operational procedures to ensure stronger linkage between research 
and extension services; and
(5)
the carrying out of a training program for extension staff.
 
Part B:
Rural Development for Women
 
The carrying out of a rural development program for women in the Project area, 
including:
(1)
The construction of extension and Training centers, and the establishment in the 
training center to be constructed in Taiz of a rural information unit.
(2)
The formulation of programs for providing women in the Project area with 
agricultural extension services and with advice in home economics, including the 
recruitment of female extension
agents.
(3)
The provision of tools for on-farm demonstration, vehicles and office furniture 
for the training centers, small equipment and materials for home economics 
demonstration purposes and for the rural information unit.
(4)
Strengthening of monitoring and evaluation through a baseline study of 
socioeconomic conditions of rural women with a vie-d to formulating measures to 
improve the planning of rural
development programs for women.
(5)
Training of extension agents.
 
Part C:
Veterinary Services
 
The strengthening and expansion of veterinary services in the Project area 
through: (a) the provision of necessary materials, equipment and vehicles; and (b) the 
Page  9
recruitment of additional staff and the training of staff.
Part D:
Nursery Development
 
Expansion of tree nursery capacity in the Project area through: (a) rearranging 
the existing Ibb nursery to specialize mainly in citrus production; (b) expanding 
production at the Warazan nursery in Taiz with additional capacity for coffee, bananas 
and other tropical fruits; (c) establishing a new nursery at Yarim in the Ibb 
Governorate to specialize in the production of deciduous plants; and (d) the provision 
of necessary farm equipment and staff.
Part E:
Fertilizer
 
Provision of about 7000 tons of phosphate and about 1400 tons of potash for use 
in the Project area during the period of Project implementation.
Part F:
Support to CACB
 
Establishment of a sub-branch for CACB in the western part and another 
sub-branch in the eastern part of the Project area, and the provision of vehicles for 
the operation of CACB in the Project area.
Part G:
Irrigation
 
1.
Improving irrigation efficiency, in pump-irrigated areas through the carrying 
out of on-farm works (installation of pump units, sprinklers, buried PVC pipes and 
fittings, and land levelling) on 11 pump-irrigated and 11 sprinkler-and drip-irrigated 
farms to be established for demonstration purposes.
2.
Rehabilitation/construction of about 6 small irrigation schemes in the Project 
area.
3.
A study to determine: (a) possible alternative sites for the construction of an 
irrigation dam in Wadi Bana; and (b) the feasibility of constructing such a dam.
Part H:
Operation and Maintenance
 
Establishment of an operation and maintenance service for buildings, equipment 
and irrigation and water supply schemes in the Project area. This includes: (a) the 
construction of buildings; (b) the provision of equipment, vehicles and machinery; (c) 
the training of staff. including the staff of the confederation concerned with the 
operation and maintenance of the irrigation and water supply schemes; and (d) 
assistance to the extension service in the implementation of on-farm irrigation works.
Part I:
Agricultural Credit
 
Provision of short and medium-term agricultural credit through CACB to enable 
farmers in the Project area to acquire farm inputs, agricultural equipment and 
livestock and to finance necessary on-farm irrigation work and tree-crop development.
Part J:
Technical Assistance
 
Provision of technical assistance for purposes of Project implementation.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
Page  10
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of not less than $200,000 and $50,000, 
respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A I hereof, goods manufactured in Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $200,000 
per contract and $3,900,000 in the aggregate, or for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of not more than $50,000 per contract and $800,000 in the aggregate, may be 
awarded on the basis of the Borrower's procedures for competitive bidding.
2.
In following the bidding procedures described in paragraph (1) of this Part, the 
Borrower shall ensure (a) that all bidders shall be treated equally in terms of the 
requirement of furnishing bid or performance security; and (b) that bids arriving 
after the stipulated deadline for the submission of bids shall not be considered.
3.
Vehicles and equipment, estimated in the aggregate to cost the equivalent of not 
more than $300,000 and fertilizer under Part E of the Project, may be procured on the 
basis of price quotations obtained from not less than three qualified suppliers.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of more than $200,000, or for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Credit or Grant Special Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Credit or Grant Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Credit or Grant 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract together with the other information required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix I 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
Page  11
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
Implementation Arrangements
 
1.
The borrower shall assign to SURDU the general responsibility for the 
implementation of the Project and shall enable it to recruit in a timely manner, as 
shown in the Annex to this Schedule, the local additional staff and consultants 
required for such implementation.
2.
The evidence, required under Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, regarding 
the availability of land and rights in respect of land for purposes of the Project, 
shall be provided by the Borrower to the Association as part of the documents for any 
construction works under the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) cause CACB and SURDU to coordinate, under appropriate 
operational procedures, the provision of credit facilities in the Project area; and 
(b) ensure the availability to CACS of funds adequate to cover the credit needs in the 
Project area.
4.
(a)
Fertilizer to be financed under Part E of the Project shall be procured 
by SURDU and shall be sold by it to traders in the Project area. The proceeds of such 
sale shall be promptly
transferred by SURDU to the borrower's Ministry of Finance.
(b)
In order to ensure timely utilization of other foreign exchange made 
available by the Borrower for the import of fertilizer for use in the Project area, 
the Borrower shall: (i) make
arrangements for providing private importers with timely notice of the foreign 
exchange so made available and of the types and quantities of fertilizer to be 
imported; and (ii) simplify the procedures for granting licenses for the import of 
such fertilizer.
5.
The Borrower shall cause SURDU:
 
(a)
by December 31, 1987 to transfer the responsibility for animal 
production, together with the staff assigned thereto, from its veterinary service to 
its extension service;
(b)
to ensure through staff training and other appropriate procedures, the 
safe transport, storage, handling and application of fertilizer and pesticides; and
(c)
to prepare and to provide to the Association, for its review and 
comments, by April 1, 1988, a program for the carrying out of the training activities 
included in the Project, and
thereafter to carry out such program in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory 
to the Borrower and the Association.
6.
Upon the completion of the first part of the study referred to in Part G (3) of 
the Project, relating to the identification of sites for the construction of an 
irrigation dam in Wadi Bana, the
Borrower shall: (a) provide to the Association the findings of such part of the study 
which shall indicate, in particular, any possible impact for the construction of such 
dam, on any of the identified sites, on existing riparian rights for a State other 
than the Borrower; and (b) determine, on the basis of such findings, in agreement with 
the Association, whether to proceed with the implementation of the second part of such 
study, relating to the detailed feasibility of constructing such a dam.
Page  12
B.
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
The Borrower shall cause SURDU: (a) to prepare quarterly reports on the progress 
in Project implementation and to furnish each such report to the Association within 
two months from the end
of the period covered by it; (b) by April 1, 1988, to establish, under procedures 
satisfactory to the Association, with the assistance of an expert to be employed by 
December 1, 1987, a monitoring and evaluation system; and (c) to annually evaluate the 
effectiveness of the operation of the agricultural extension service under Part B of 
the Project.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
(1)
Staffing Needs for SURDU
 
The following table indicates the total additional numbers of staff required for 
SURDU, and the timetable for their assignment:
                        Additional Requirements/Expected Year of Appointment
Position                Total 19871 1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  19932
Monitoring and            2     -     2     -     -     -     -     -
  Evaluation Officers
Director Agricultural     1     -     1     -     -     -     -     -
  Department, SURDU
Extension Service
  Management and          7     -     3     4     -     -     -     -
    Senior SMSs
  Supervisors and        12     -     3     3     3     2     1     -
    Block Centers SMSs3
  Extension Agents       20     -     4     4     4     4     4     -
  Clerks and Drivers     10     -     3     5     2     -     -     -
Rural Development for
  Women Program Manage-
  ment and SMS            3     -     1     2     -     -     -     -
Supervisors               2     -     1     1     -     -     -     -
  Agriculture Agents     13     -     -     3     3     5     2     -
  Home Economics
   Agents                 5     -     -     2     2     1     -     -
  Clerks and Drivers     16     -     4     1     4     3     4     -
Veterinary Service
  Veterinarians           2     -     1     1     -     -     -     -
  Veterinary Assis-
      tants               9     -     3     2     4     -     -     -
Nursery Development
  Head (Yarim)            1     -     1     -     -     -     -     -
  Technicians             8     -     2     4     2     -     -     -
  Skilled Workers
      & Guards            8     -     2     4     2     -     -     -
Operation and
  Maintenance
Engineering staff         2     -     2     -     -     -     -     -
  Civil Engineer          1     -     1     -     -     -     -     -
  Mechanical Engineer     1     -     1     -     -     -     -     -
  Hydrologist             1     -     1     -     -     -     -     -
  Mechanics               4     1     1     2     -     -     -     -
  Technicians             2     -     2     -     -     -     -     -
  Draftsman               1     1     -     -     -     -     -     -
  Foreman                 2     1     1     -     -     -     -     -
  Drivers/Machine
      Operator           12     2     2     2     2     4     -     -
Page  13
_______________________
1     Begins July 1
2     Ends June 30
3     Five of eight supervisors (Block Centers heads) are from existing
      personnel.
(2)
Consultants
 
The following table indicates the specialties and numbers of consultants to be 
employed under the Project and the approximate duration and dates of commencement of 
their employment:
Expertise               Number      Staff-Years       Date of Employment
Agriculture-Senior        1           3-1/2           January 1, 19871
      Advisor
Extension Service
      Extension Plan-     1           3-1/2           January 1, 19871
        ning
      Plant Protec-       1           3-1/2           January 1, 19871
        tion
      Irrigation          1           2               July 1, 1988
        Agronomy
      Extension           1           3               December 1, 1987
        Training
      Communication       1           2               July 1, 1989
      Monitoring and      1           3               December 1, 1987
        Evaluation
      Horticulture        1           3               July 1, 1988
        (Associate
         Expert)
      Short-term          -           1-1/2           December 1, 1987
        Consultants
            Sub-total                                                   25
Rural Development for Women
      Women Development   1           3               December 1, 1987
        Expert
      Home Economics      1           3               March 1, 1988
        (Associate
         Expert)
      Women Development   1           3               March 1, 1988
        (Associate
         Expert)
      Short-term          -           2               December 1, 1987
        Consultants
        (Communication
         and Base Line
         Survey)
            Sub-total                11
Veterinary Services
      Veterinarian        1           2-1/2           January 1, 1988
            Sub-total                 2-1/2
1     Financed under the Project Preparation Advance.
Engineering
Page  14
  Senior Advisor          1           3-1/2           January 1, 19871
  Civil Engineer          1           3               January 1, 1988
  Associate Civil         1           3               January 1, 1988
      Engineer
  Office Engineer         1           4-1/2           January 1, 19871
  Associate Mechanical    1           1               July 1, 1988
      Engineer
      Sub-total                      15
Consultants Phase II          Staff-Months
Dam Engineer/Team Leader  1           9               June 1, 1987
Irrigation Engineer       1           4               June 1, 1987
Hydrologist               1           2               June 1, 1987
Geologist/Geotech         1           3               June 1, 1987
      Engineer
Structural Designer       1           3               June 1, 1987
Economist                 1           1               June 1, 1987
Surveyor                  1           3               June 1, 1987
      Sub-total                      25 (2-1/2 Years)
Consultants Phase II
Dam Engineer Team Leader  1           9               January 1, 1990
Irrigation Engineer       1           6               January 1, 1990
Hydrologist               1           3               January 1, 1990
Geologist/Geotech         1           4               January 1, 1990
      Engineer
Structural Design         1           4               January 1, 1990
      Engineer
Economist                 1           1               January 1, 1990
Surveyor                  1           3               January 1, 1990
      Sub-total                      30 (2-1/2 Years)
                  TOTAL              58 Years
1     Financed from the Project Preparation Advance.
2     Including operational and maintenance service.
SCHEDULE 5
Credit and Grant Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
630,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Credit Special 
Account and an amount of 700,000 Swiss France to be withdrawn from the Swiss Grant and 
deposited into the Grant Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Credit and 
Grant Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  15
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Credit 
and Grant Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Credit and Grant Special 
Accounts may be made as follows:
(a)
on the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall (i) on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Credit Special 
Account, and (ii) request SDC to deposit into the Grant Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Credit and Grant Special Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. On the basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Credit Special Account and request SDC to deposit into 
the Grant Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Credit 
and Grant Special Accounts with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out 
of them for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall he withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account or by SDC from the Swiss Grant account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Credit and the Grant Special 
Accounts for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of 
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time 
of such request, such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably 
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Credit or the Grant Special Account shall be made by the 
Association or SDC when either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement or 
from the Swiss Grant account; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Swiss Grant 
allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall he equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or from the Swiss Grant of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Swiss Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Credit or the Grant Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Credit or the Grant Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the Credit or 
the Grant Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association or to SDC) for crediting to the Credit Account or the Swiss Grant account, 
as the case may be, an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into the 
Credit Special Account or by SDC into the Grant Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
Page  16
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Credit or the Grant Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to 
the Association or to SDC such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account 
or the Swiss Grant account, as the case may be.
