Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18&3a-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON
A THIRD AND FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
June 23, 1978
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                 Din 18.20
Din 1.00       =        US$0.055
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
IBT  -  Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP  -  Kosovska Banka Pristina
PBS  -  Privredna Banka Sarajevo
SBS  -  Stopanska Banka Skopje
BOAL - Basic Organization of Associated Labor
DFC  -  Development Finance Company
ERR  -  Economic Rate of Return
FRR  -  Financial Rate of Return
GMP  -  Gross Material Product
ICB  -  International Competitive Bidding
LDRs - Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
MDRs - More Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
SDK  -  Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or
Social Accounting Service
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON
A THIRD AND FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE  ................................................                        1
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ..................................                         1
A.    Institutional Framework  .....          ..............                     1
B.    Structure of Industry  .....          ...............                     3
C.    Past Performance  ..................................                      5
D.    The Role of Industry  .....         ...............                        6
E.    Development Issues  ......         ...............                         7
F.    Prospects:   The 1976-80 Plan ......................                     10
II.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ...................................                        14
A.    Financial Institutions  ............................                     14
B.    The New Banking Law  ...............................                     15
C.    Interest Rates  ....................................                     16
D.    The Role of the Borrowing Banks  ...................                     17
III.   THE BORROWING BANKS  ....................................                        18
A.   The Banks' Structure  ..............................                      18
B.    Policies and Procedures  ...........................                     20
C.    The Banks' Operations  .............................                     21
D.    The Banks' Financial Situation  ....................                     22
E.    Performance Under the Previous Industrial
Credit Projects  ................................                    26
F.    Forecast of the Banks' Operations and Financial
Performance  ....................................                    27
IV.    THE PROJECTS  .........................................                         28
A.    Objectives  ......................................                       28
B.    Use of the Proceeds of the Proposed Loans                 .......        29
C.    Economic Justification  ..........................                       31
D.    Main Features of the Loans  ......................                       32
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                 ...........        35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. H.B. Thomas, J.M.R. Feige, M. Takahashi, S.Z. Husain and C. Chittle
(Consultant), which visited Yugoslavia in October 1977.
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Statements of Income and Expenses:
1975-June 30, 1977 .......................................   36
Annex 2   Balance Sheets:
1975-June 30, 1977 .......................................   37
Annex 3   Projected Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds:
1978-82 ..................................................    38
Annex 4   Projected Statements of Income and Expenses:
1978-82 ..................................................    39
Annex 5   Projected Balance Sheets:
1978-82 ..................................................   40
Annex 6   Projected Schedule of Disbursements  ........................   41
Annex 7   Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .............................................   42



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON
A THIRD AND FOURTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
PREFACE
This report appraises a proposed third and fourth industrial credit
project in Yugoslavia. The projects are similar in many respects to the first
and second industrial credit projects approved in 1974 and 1976. Under the
proposal $100 million equivalent would be lent to the four major multi-purpose
banks in the less developed regions (LDRs) of Yugoslavia for on-lending to
industrial projects, including labor intensive projects. The four banks and
the LDRs in which they are located are the Kosovska Banka Pristina in Kosovo
(KBP), Investiciona Banka Titograd in Montenegro (IBT), Privredna Banka
Sarajevo in Bosnia-Herzegovina (PBS) and Stopanska Banka Skopje in Macedonia
(SBS). The third project comprises a loan to KBP of $40 million equivalent
and incorporates two features which are designed to meet the special needs of
Kosovo. The fourth project comprises three loans of $20 million equivalent
each to IBT, PBS and SBS. The general terms and conditions of the proposed
loans would be those normal for DFC loans.
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Institutional Framework
1.01      A comprehensive review and analysis of the past performance, prob-
lems and prospects of the Yugoslav economy is contained in the IBRD report
"Yugoslavia - Self Management Socialism and the Challenges of Development"
(No. 1615a-YU, dated March 21, 1978), distributed to the Board in April 1978.
Yugoslavia's economic system is characterized by social ownership and con-
trol of the means of production, decentralization of political and economic
decision-making and the principle of workers' self-management. Since 1946
Yugoslavia has passed through three constitutions which reflect an essentially
evolutionary process in reconciling the aim of increased workers' autonomy
with the need to evolve adequate policy instruments for economic management.
In 1950 workers' self-management was initiated. However, macro-economic
management remained with the State through the use of such conventional
instruments as planning, prices and incomes policy, fiscal and monetary
policy. The 1965 reforms reduced the role of the State organs. The central
allocation of investment funds was abandoned in favor of a self-managed
banking sector and a greatly increased role for the market was envisaged
through a realignment of prices, abolition of multiple exchange rates and
a general liberalization of foreign trade. However, the system as applied
weakened macro-economic management and resulted in or exacerbated some
economic problems particularly relating to inflation, balance of payments and
resource allocation.



1.02      The disenchantment with the market system and the indicative plan-
ning introduced by the 1965 reforms is reflected in the 1974 Constitution
which envisaged major revisions in the system of economic management. The
most important feature is the extension of the principle of workers' self-
management to macro-economic decision-making. The new planning mechanism
(self-management planning) will principally affect the allocation of resources.
In addition, contractual agreements (Social Compacts and Self-Management
Agreements) 1/ to deal with such diverse areas as prices, incomes and employ-
ment have also been introduced. The agreements are publicly negotiated and
legally binding for the signatories. The new system of planning includes
long-term, medium-term (5-year) and annual plans. All economic and socio-
political entities have an input in the planning process. Planning is char-
acterized as being simultaneous (i.e. involvement in planning takes place
concurrently at all levels from the Basic Organization of Associated Labor
(BOAL) 2/ at the "bottom" to socio-political communities at the "top" or
federal level) and continuous (i.e. assessment of Plans takes place periodic-
ally through annual evaluations and revisions). Intra- and inter-enterprise
planning is referred to as self-management planning; planning of socio-
political communities is termed social planning. The plans of all planning
agents are harmonized through an iterative process. Industry associations and
Economic Chambers facilitate this harmonization and coordination procedure.
For the priority sectors, complete harmonization must be achieved within a
fixed time period; in case of an impasse, the Government authorities can inter-
vene. The harmonized agreements are then codified in Social Compacts and
Self-Management Agreements which have the force of law. Although the system
is not as rigid for the non-priority sectors, harmonization is strongly
encouraged. Planning, e.g. short- and medium-term plans for enterprises, is,
however, compulsory for economic and socio-political entities.
1.03      The participation of individual BOALs in various aspects of planning,
including the source of investment funds, the ultimate disposition of retained
earnings, foreign exchange distribution, and integration in the production
process, is viewed as an important and positive feature of the new planning
mechanism. Enterprise integration is strongly encouraged. Thus, the various
BOALs and enterprises from the lowest to the highest degree of processing of a
product are encouraged to integrate through Self-Management Agreements.
Purchase, supply, and marketing relationships together with decisions on the
1/   Social Compacts regulate rights and obligations affecting broader
economic issues and policies and are concluded among socio-political
communities (Federal Government, Governments of Republics and Autono-
mous Provinces and Communes) and also among Economic Chambers, Trade
Unions and Associations of Enterprises. Self-Management Agreements
are more specific and regulate rights, obligations, etc. within and
between economic organizations like BOALS, enterprises and banks.
2/   Technically and organizationally, the smallest identifiable unit of
operation.



- 3 -
pooling of resources (primarily capital), income and foreign exchange sharing
are to be spelled out in these Self-Management Agreements. The emphasis on
inter-enterprise integration may increase resource mobility, both within
and between Republics and Provinces, and thus potentially have a positive
effect on the flow of capital and technology to the LDRs.
B. The Structure of Industry
Yugoslavia
1.04      Generally, Yugoslavia's industrial enterprises are large and those
with more than 1,000 workers account for more than 60% of industrial value
added. Small-scale industrial establishments (defined as those employing less
than 200 workers and having fixed assets of less than 30 million Dinars or
$1.7 million equivalent) constituted only 18% of total industrial establish-
ments and accounted for only 2.3% of total industrial fixed assets and 3.1%
of total industrial employment in 1974. The preponderance of large estab-
lishments is the result of the past industrialization policy and pattern of
industrial growth: the emphasis placed on growth of energy production, the
stress on exploitation of existing natural resources and the attempt to build
up new branches with material bases in the newly exploited natural resources.
In 1974 basic industries, namely energy (electricity, coal and petroleum),
ferrous and non-ferrous metals, chemicals and pulp and paper, accounted for
53% of industrial fixed assets but only 34% of industrial value added and 20%
of industrial employment (see Table 1). In contrast, other industries, namely
non-metallic minerals, metal products, shipbuilding, electrical products,
building materials, wood products, textiles, leather and footwear, rubber
products, food products, printing and publishing, tobacco products, etc.,
accounted for only 47% of industrial fixed assets but 66% of industrial value
added and 80% of industrial employment. This reveals not only the domination
of basic industries in the industrial structure of Yugoslavia but also their
relatively higher capital-output and capital-labor ratios. Industrial exports,
on the other hand, are quite diversified: metal and engineering products
account for about one-third of the total; non-ferrous metals, textiles,
leather, clothing and footwear contribute another one-third; forest products,
food products and chemicals account for the balance.



Table 1: STRUCTURE OF INDUSTRY, 1974
Share of Industry   Share of Industry   Share of Industrial
Value Added          Fixed Assets            Employment
Basic      Other    Basic        Other    Basic          Other
Indus-     Indus-   Indus-       Indus-   Indus-         Indus-
tries      tries    tries        tries    tries          tries
Bosnia-
Herzegovina          46          54        62          38        30            70
Montenegro            52          48        82          18        33            67
Macedonia             35          65        54          46        18            82
Kosovo                59          41        65          35        41            59
Less Developed
Regions              45          55        61          39        29            71
More Developed
Regions              28          72        52          48        17            83
Yugoslavia            34          66        53          47        20            80
Basic Industries:  Energy (electricity, coal and petroleum), ferrous metals,
non-ferrous metals, chemicals, paper.
Other Industries:  Non-metallic minerals, metal products, shipbuilding,
electrical products, building materials, wood products,
textiles, leather and footwear, rubber products, food
products, printing and publishing, tobacco products,
and other.
The Less Developed Regions
1.05      Over the past 20 years the share of industry in GMP in the LDRs
grew faster than in the other regions. Though the LDRs started with a con-
siderably lower share of industry in GMP 1/ after the Second World War, by
1975 the share was 37.3% in the LDRs compared to 36.8% in the MDRs. Bosnia-
Herzegovina had the highest share of the four regions with almost 40%, and
Montenegro the lowest with 31.2%. The LDRs, more than the rest of Yugoslavia,
have a considerable wealth of natural resources in mining and energy. Basic
industry (including mining) was, therefore, given top priority. This strategy
was aimed at providing power, minerals and raw materials for processing
industries in developed regions and for export. Moreover, compared with the
requirements of promoting light industries, basic industries economized on
scarce management, technical and marketing expertise. Mining and production
1/   Gross Material Product or Social Product excludes "nonproductive" (in
Yugoslav terminology) services such as education, health, administration,
defense and other public services. GDP has been approximately 14% higher
than GMP.



- 5 -
of basic metals now play an important role in the four LDRs. Approximately
half of Yugoslavia's total steel capacity is located in Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Montenegro and Macedonia. Considerable deposits of bauxite have enabled a
rapid expansion of the aluminum industry, centered in Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Montenegro, which produces aluminum for domestic use and significant quanti-
ties of alumina for export. Yugoslavia's main lead and zinc ore deposits
are mined and processed in Macedonia and Kosovo. In 1974, the share of basic
industries in total industrial fixed assets in the LDRs was 61%, in indus-
trial value added, 45%, and in industrial employment, 29%, compared to the
respective shares of 52%, 28% and 17% in the MDRs. Because of the dominance
of basic industries in the four LDRs, the industrial pattern in these regions
is more capital-intensive than in the MDRs. The share of processing or
fabricating industries like metal products and textiles, which are more
labor-intensive, is substantially below the Yugoslav average.
C. Past Performance
1.06      Over the postwar period as a whole, Yugoslavia has been remarkably
successful in achieving its objectives of rapid economic growth and trans-
formation of the economy from a preponderantly agrarian into a modern diver-
sified economy with a high degree of income equality and a growing integration
into the international division of labor. Between 1954-74 the growth in real
GMP averaged 7.2% p.a. (in 1972 prices) which, in conjunction with a low and
declining population growth rate averaging 1.1%, led to significant gains
in per capita income estimated at $1,680 in 1976. However, since the 1965
reforms there has been some tendency for the growth rate of output, employment,
personal incomes and commodity exports to decline.
1.07      Growth rates in the 1971-75 Plan period exceeded the planned rate
for some sectors and fell short for others. Although real GMP grew at an
impressive rate of 6.3% p.a., it still fell short of the 7.5% targeted rate,
having been adversely affected by the considerable slowdown in investment and
output in 1972 and 1973, as a result of the stabilization measures adopted and
the attempt of the Yugoslav authorities to impose financial discipline over
enterprises and socio-political units. World and domestic inflation, economic
recession in the West and the banning of beef imports by the EEC also affected
economic performance adversely. The inflation rate averaged 19% p.a. (measured
by the GMP deflator) during 1971-75 compared to 8.5% during 1965-70. Lower
exports due to the recession in Western Europe, increased imports as a result
of the rise in the oil bill and the resurgent domestic demand, and the unfavor-
able shift in the terms of trade resulted in a sharp reversal of the current
account from a surplus of US$0.5 billion equivalent in 1973 to a deficit of
US$1.1 billion equivalent in 1974. The balance of payments crisis and the
explosive rate of inflation experienced in 1974 (29% increase in industrial
producer price index) resulted in painful adjustment policies during 1975 and
1976 which had an adverse impact on economic growth. Although social sector
employment during 1971-75 grew at 4.3% p.a. (forecast rate 3%), registered



unemployment rose (in part due to the reflux of emigrant workers in 1974-75)
from 320,000 or 7.7% in 1970 to 540,000 or 10.2% of the labor force (excluding
self-employed and migrant workers) in 1975, particularly affecting the LDRs. 1/
1.08      The economic growth of the LDRs during 1971-75, with the exception
of Montenegro, was for the first time above the national average. The esti-
mated growth of GMP was 18% higher, of industrial production 10% higher, of
fixed investment 16% higher and of employment 32% higher than the national
average. This superior performance should not, however, conceal the fact
that plan implementation in the LDRs fell short of projected targets. There
was a shortfall in investment due to inadequate accumulation by enterprises
and banks and to high rates of inflation at home and abroad.  There was also
a shortfall in production, due to delays in construction and start-up of new
facilities stemming from cost overruns and shortage of funds, difficulties
in obtaining imported semi-finished products due to balance of payments dif-
ficulties, imbalanced internal capacities, weak foreign markets and lack of
technical and managerial staff.
1.09      The major objectives of economic policy in Yugoslavia during 1976
were further reductions in the balance of payments deficit and in the infla-
tionary pressures in the economy. Both objectives were met. A current account
surplus of US$150 million equivalent was registered in 1976. The rate of
inflation in terms of the GMP deflator declined to 13.7% in 1976 compared to
19% in 1975 and in terms of industrial producer prices declined even more
remarkably to 6% compared to 22% in 1975. However, these restrictive policies
halted economic growth during the first half of 1976. By the middle of the
year, industrial production started to expand again, mainly as a result of an
expansion of investment and exports. This upsurge contributed to a real
increase of GMP by about 3.9% for the year as a whole (compared to the planned
growth of 5.5%). The GMP of the LDRs grew at about the same rate while GMP
per capita in the LDRs failed to show any improvement and remained at about
60% of the national average.  Employment growth in Yugoslavia as a whole was
3.5% but unemployment reached 11.9%.
1.10      The growth momentum built up in the second half of 1976 continued
into 1977.  However, the more rapid economic growth (estimated at 7%) was
accompanied by a current account deficit estimated to be over US$1 billion
equivalent and by moderate inflation (13% in terms of retail price index),
necessitating more restrictive policies for 1978.
D. The Role of Industry
1.11      Industry has been the principal engine of Yugoslavia's impressive
economic growth since 1954; it has opened up the country to the world economy
1/   In Yugoslavia unemployment is measured in terms of registered job seekers
actually unemployed as well as those employed but seeking new jobs. Actual
unemployment is estimated to be about 60% of registered unemployment.



-  7 -
and provided employment to the growing labor force. The industrial value-
added growth rate of 9.4% p.a. during 1956-75 exceeded the GMP growth rate
of 7.2% p.a. (in 1972 prices), resulting in an increase in the share of
industry in GMP from 23% in 1955 to 37% in 1976. In the same period, indus-
trial investment grew at the rate of 7% p.a. in real terms, accounting for
about one-half of total social sector investment; industrial exports, which
grew at 10.3% p.a., accounted for about 90% of total commodity exports by
1975; industrial employment grew at the rate of 5% p.a. compared to the social
sector employment growth rate of 4% p.a. Industry now accounts for 39% of
total social sector employment. Gains in productivity were noteworthy during
the same time span, averaging 5% p.a. The performance of the industrial
sector in the 1971-75 Plan period was consistent with the past record: the
growth rate of industrial production of 8.1% p.a. equalled the Plan target.
E. Development Issues
1.12      The issues of unemployment and inter-regional disparities, which
are particularly relevant for the proposed project, are discussed below.
Unemployment
1.13      The progress in employment generation has been disappointing.  The
present dimensions of the unemployment problem are shown in Table 2. The
unemployment rate reached 17.6% in the LDRs compared to 9.6% in the MDRs and
11.9% in the country as a whole in 1976. The highest unemployment rate was
in Kosovo (25.4%), followed by Macedonia (22.7%). In addition, there is
considerable underemployment in the agricultural sector, particularly in
the LDRs. Several factors have contributed to the growth in unemployment.
The higher incomes in the social sector acted as a strong pull inducing a
rapid migration out of the traditional agricultural sector. External migra-
tion, which became an extremely important vent for surplus labor, absorbed
between 1969-73 over 500,000 workers, which was nearly twice the natural
increase in the labor force and almost equal to the increase in social sector
employment during the period. However, after 1973, the situation dramatically
reversed itself. The net reflux of workers between 1973-75 equalled the
natural increase in the labor force. The problem in the LDRs is accentuated
by the much faster natural increase in population and labor force (particularly
in Kosovo with a population growth of 2.6% p.a. compared to 0.6% in the MDRs
during 1961-71), limited inter-regional migration and capital-intensive indus-
trial structure (see para. 1.05).



-8-
Table 2: EMPLOYMENT SITUATION - 1976
Registered
Unemployment /2
Employment /1               (4)
(1)    (2)        (3)  (3) as % of
000     %         000    (1)+(3)
Bosnia-Herzegovina                        707    14         109       13.4
Montenegro                                105      2          19      15.3
Macedonia                                 351      7         103      22.7
Kosovo                                    144      3         49       25.4
Less Developed Regions                  1,307    26         280       17.6
More Developed Regions                  3,618    74         385        9.6
Yugoslavia                              4,925   100         665       11.9
/1   Paid Employment (excludes self-employed and migrant workers)
annual average.
/2   As of the end of the year.
Source: Statistical Yearbook Yugoslavia, 1977, pp. 388, 400.
Inter-regional Disparities
1.14      Progress toward reduction of inter-regional disparities of income
has been below expectations. The current situation as regards inter-regional
per capita income disparity is shown in Table 3. Whether measured in current
or constant prices, the relative per capita income position of the LDRs has
not improved since 1970, although the earlier declining trend has largely been
stopped. Per capita GNP in 1976 was only US$1,008 for the LDRs compared with
US$2,066 for the MDRs (the Yugoslav average was US$1,680). Furthermore, the
structural weaknesses of the economies of the LDRs persist: higher capital-
output ratio, lower employment per unit of capital (in Kosovo and Montenegro),
higher unit labor costs and lower accumulation rate (compared to those in the
MDRs). The disparities have remained not because of stagnation in the LDRs;
in fact, the rate of growth in the LDRs has been quite satisfactory. The GMP
growth of 6.7% p.a. of the LDRs during 1953-71 was only slightly less than
that of the MDRs (7.4%); during 1971-75 the growth of 7.1% p.a. of the LDRs
surpassed that of the MDRs (6.7%). This growth was achieved through high
rates of investment in the social sector (the investment rate in the LDRs was
42% of GMP in 1975 compared to 29% in the MDRs), supported by transfers of
resources through the Federal Budget and the "Federal Fund for the Accelerated
Development of the LDRs" (Federal Fund). The principal obstacle to bridging
the gap between the LDRs and the MDRs has been the high population growth rate
in the former (1.25% p.a. compared to 0.58% in the latter during 1970-75).
Thus, despite the high rate of total investment, the per capita investment in



- 9 -
the LDRs (with the exception of Montenegro) remained below the national
average (81% compared to 111% in the MDRs in 1975) and, as a result, it was
insufficient to close the gap. Further, there is higher incidence of intra-
regional disparities in the LDRs manifested in a large proportion of the
population dependent upon private agriculture, the average productivity and
personal incomes of which significantly lag behind that of the social sector.
Thus, the lower social sector employment/population ratio in the LDRs (16%
compared to 25% in the MDRs and about 22% in Yugoslavia as a whole in 1975) is
an important factor behind inter-regional disparity. The more disadvantageous
industrial structure in the LDRs characterized by higher concentration in
industrial branches with higher capital-output and capital-labor ratios and
lower profitability is another significant factor. The higher unemployment
rates in the LDRs (see Table 2 and para 1.13) are also important in this
context. Finally, the LDRs have certain institutional weaknesses--shortage of
managerial skills and technical know-how--and infrastructure deficiencies.
Table 3: REGIONAL DISPARITIES IN PER CAPITA INCOME AND OPERATIONAL FEATURES
GNP
GROSS MATERIAL PRODUCT-         (US$)
/1    /OC  3   /4    /5   /6
1954   1964   1970   1975   1976/  1976   OCR- PL- ULC- AR/
Bosnia-
Herzegovina      82      69     67      69     66  1,109    95   87   105   74
Montenegro        53      72     78      70     69  1,159    71   93    96  108
Macedonia         69      73     64      69     67  1,126    91   81   101   70
Kosovo            48      37     34      33     29    487    70   77   106   48
Less Devel-
oped Regions    71       65     61      62     60  1,008    87   85   105   74
More Devel-
oped Regions   110    118    121    121    123  2,066   104  105    96  111
Yugoslavia       100    100    100    100    100  1,680   100  100   100  100
/1   Provisional data.
/2   Calculated on the basis of current prices; Yugoslavia average = 100.
/3   Output/capital ratio (GMP/fixed assets), 1974.
/4   Productivity of labor (GMP per worker), 1974.
/5   Unit labor cost index (ratio of gross personal income per worker to GMP
per worker), 1974.
/6   Accumulation Rate [ratio of depreciation plus allocation to enterprise
funds (undistributed profits) to fixed assets], 1974.
Source: World Bank (Yugoslavia--Self Management Socialism and the Challenges
of Development); Statistical Year Book of Yugoslavia, 1977, pp. 375,
413; Statistical Year Book of Yugoslavia, 1976, p. 410.



- 10 -
F. Prospects: The 1976-80 Plan
Industrial Strategy, Objectives and Policy
1.15      The 1976-80 Plans of Yugoslavia and the four LDRs continue to empha-
size rapid industrialization as pivotal to achieving high rates of economic
growth and desired structural changes. While the GMP of Yugoslavia is pro-
jected to grow at 7% p.a. during 1976-80, industry is expected to grow at 8%
p.a. The share of industry in GMP is planned to increase from 40.4% in 1975
to 42.4% in 1980 and its share in social sector fixed investment from 51% in
1971-75 to 56% in 1976-80. The highlights of the plans of the four LDRs are
similar and are summarized in the following table:
Table 4:  INDUSTRIAL GROWTH TARGETS IN THE 1976-80 PLAN (IN %)
Growth rate p.a.             Share of Industry
(1976-80)                    In Social Sector
Industrial        In GMP  Fixed Investment
GMP   Production        (1980)      (1976-80)
Yugoslavia                       7.0       8.0            42.4          56.0
Bosnia-Herzegovina               8.0   9.0 to 9.5         42.7          63.9
Montenegro                       8.3      12.1            37.8          63.8
Macedonia                        8.0       9.0            39.0          58.0
Kosovo                           9.5      11.8            43.1          61.4
Source:  Social Plans of Yugoslavia and the Republics/Province for 1976-80.
1.16      Within industry, basic industries will continue to be the highest
priority sub-sectors. In Yugoslavia as a whole, the share of energy, basic
metallurgy and basic chemicals is expected to increase from 45.8% of total
industrial fixed investment during 1971-75 to 63.3% during 1976-80; the share
of energy and ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy is expected to be 56.5% in
Bosnia-Herzegovina and 77.6% in Montenegro and the share of electrical energy,
coal and non-ferrous metallurgy in Kosovo is expected to be 58% of industrial
fixed investment during 1976-80. For Macedonia, the investment figures are
not available but the share of basic industry in total industrial production
is expected to be 68.1% during 1976-80.
1.17      The choice of the priority sectors was dictated by the need to
remove "structural imbalances" in the Yugoslav economy. The dependence of
the economy on imports of raw materials and equipment was considered excessive
and certain domestic growth constraints, particularly in energy, agriculture
and transportation, considered serious. This consideration was based on the
experience with the balance of payments. The fourfold increase in the price
of oil in 1973/74 added nearly $600 million to the country's annual import
bill. More importantly, with the trend of external migration of Yugoslav
workers reversed, the prospects of growth of workers' remittances dwindled.



Thus, balance of payments became a potentially serious constraint on the
growth of the econormy. For the 1976-80 Plan, the Yugoslavs could have opted
for the strategy of either export promotion or import substitution, or both.
They opted primarily for import substitution since it offers a more certain
path to external balancing of the economy, at the same time reducing the
vulnerability of the economy to future externally induced oscillations.
Since 90% of Yugoslavia's imports consist of intermediate and capital goods,
the 1976-83 Plan strategy is aimed at achieving a significant import sub-
stitution in those very sectors and branches (mainly producing intermediate
goods) which have tended to lag behind since 1965.
1.18      Other industrial objectives of the 1976-80 Plan are the removal of
internal imbalances in industry, the better utilization of productive facili-
ties, modernization, promotion of exports through adoption of modern tech-
nology, attainment of international competitiveness and reduction of technical
and technological dependence on foreign partners. Among non-basic industries,
the Bosnia-Herzegovina Plan anticipates significant investment in manufacturing
industries especially in metal products, electrical appliances, chemical
products, food manufacturing, textiles, wood products and cellulose and paper.
In Montenegro, metal products and electrical machinery and appliances will be
allocated 11% of total industrial investment. The Macedonia Plan allocates
5% of Federal Fund resources to the development of small-scale industries
(defined in para 1.04) and labor-intensive activities to increase employment.
The Kosovo Plan recognizes unemployment as the most serious problem for the
future development of Kosovo and, therefore, gives emphasis to the growth of
those sectors and branches (such as construction, trade and arts and crafts
which have a low capital-output ratio) which can secure a faster rate of
growth of income and employment. The Kosovo Plan also emphasizes the diver-
sification of industrial structure which at present is dominated by capital-
intensive energy and non-ferrous metallurgy sectors. Nevertheless, the
dominant share of investment will be channelled to capital-intensive basic
industries.
1.19      While the choice of priority sectors is understandable, the impact
of this strategy on employment generation and reduction of regional dispari-
ties will be limited. Since the average capital-labor ratio in priority
sectors is more than twice as high as the industrial average, 1/ the Plan
resource allocation pattern implies a relatively high investment-per-job
created and, by implication, limited additional employment opportunities.
Moreover, to the extent that the priority sectors are concentrated in the
LDRs which are characterized by higher unemployment rates (compared to the
MDRs), the Plan industrial strategy is hardly conducive to reduction of
regional disparities either.
1/   Electric power, petroleum, ferrous metallurgy, non-ferrous metallurgy
and chemicals ranked in the top six in terms of the magnitude of the
total capital/labor ratio in 1972.



- 12 -
1.20      The problem of unemployment may worsen further if there is a down-
ward revision of Plan targets, which appears likely. The Yugoslav Plan is
based on an optimistic assumption about reduced import dependency. The import
elasticity of 0.64 implied by the Federal Plan is only about 60% of the actual
elasticity during 1971-75. Since the priority sectors are among the most
imported-input-intensive 1/, a net import substitution in these sectors will
require a substantial change in the past trend. Increasing import restrictions
could increase the difficulty in reaching the growth targets of the Plan (and
by implication the employment targets). Moreover, the dependence of the four
LDRs on foreign sources of financing for social sector fixed investment during
1976-80 ranges from 18% for Bosnia-Herzegovina to 42% for Montenegro (see
Table 5). Thus, the availability of foreign exchange will be a crucial
ingredient in the achievement of Plan targets. In case of a shortfall in
investible resources, the non-priority sectors are likely to bear the brunt
of adjustment.  These being the relatively labor-intensive sectors, the
implications for employment growth may be serious.
Table 5:  SOURCES OF FINANCING OF 1976-80 Plan (in %)
Federal Funds   Republic Resources   Foreign   Total
Bosnia-Herzegovina             11                  71              18        100
Macedonia                      25                  50              25        100
Montenegro                     28                  30              42        100
Kosovo                         45                  29              26        100
Source:   Five-Year Plan of the Republics/Province.
1.21      The priority sectors, in addition to being relatively capital-
intensive, also tend to be skilled labor-intensive. However, the LDRs would
be expected to have a comparative advantage in unskilled labor-intensive
products. Thus the priority sectors, into which industrial investment is
being concentrated, do not appear to follow closely the comparative advantage
of the LDRs. However, the argument cannot be carried further because raw
material endowments dominate capital and labor in the determination of com-
parative advantage in the case of the LDRs. Low interest rates (in absolute
terms as well as in relation to the MDRs as a result of Federal Fund credits)
provide an artificial incentive to the development of capital-intensive
industry. The tax system also has been biased toward capital-intensive
production. The decision-making process of the labor-managed enterprises may
also have a capital-intensive bias. 2/ Thus, in this setting it is important
to encourage the development of projects which have a low cost per job created
and which economize on the use of skilled labor to the extent possible.
1/   Shipbuilding, non-ferrous metals, petroleum and chemicals ranked 1,
3, 4 and 5 respectively out of twenty industrial branches in imported
input (direct plus indirect) requirements of production in 1972.
2/   Working against this bias is the political pressure on the enterprises
to employ a greater than optimum quantity of labor.



- 13 -
Employment Policy and Prospects
1.22      In view of the limited impact of the priority sectors on employment
generation, the need to increase employment opportunities is recognized in the
1976-80 Plan. The strategy adopted is to place greater emphasis on labor
intensive and small-scale industries. Social Compacts on small-scale indus-
tries, which specify promotional measures such as tax incentives and prefer-
ential credit facilities, have been adopted. Social Compacts on employment in
the social sector have also been concluded within and between the regions.
Communities of Interest for employment, consisting of representatives of
job-seekers and employers, have been created to coordinate inter- and intra-
republic employment policy. Policies to encourage private sector employment
include fiscal incentives and the creation of a new legal concept, the
Contractual Organization of Associated Labor, which can be private or mixed
private-social in terms of ownership and circumvents the five-employee limi-
tation that has applied to privately owned business. This form of enterprise
may facilitate absorption of returning migrants and the underemployed in the
agricultural sector. It may also act as a stimulus to the flow of migrant
workers' remittances into productive investment. The extent of effectiveness
of the new employment policies is, however, not yet clear.
1.23      Given its present dimensions and the development strategy of the
1976-80 Plan, the problem of unemployment, particularly in the LDRs, will per-
sist in the near future. Even if the target growth rates of social sector
employment in the LDRs during 1976-80 were realized (see Table 6), they would
be barely sufficient to absorb the natural increase in labor force and
returning migrants and to reduce registered unemployment by 25% in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro while in Kosovo it would be barely
sufficient to absorb the natural increase and returning migrants. The problem
of agricultural underemployment would remain untouched in both cases.
Table 6: REQUIRED AND TARGETED ANNUAL EMPLOYMENT GROWTH RATES (%)
1976-80 Target      Growth in Social Sector
Growth of          Employment Needed to
Social Sector       Absorb Natural Inc yase
Employment            in Labor Force -
Bosnia-Herzegovina                   4.0                      4.9
Montenegro                           3.8                      4.0
Macedonia                            4.5                      5.1
Kosovo                               7.5                      9.4
/1   Including returning migrants and a reduction of registered
unemployment of about one-quarter.
Source: Five-Year Plans and IBRD Estimates.



- 14 -
Regional Development Policy and Prospects
1.24      The 1976-80 Plan continues the past emphasis on reduction of inter-
regional disparities and projects the GMP growth rate in Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Montenegro and Macedonia to exceed the national growth rate by 20-25% and
that in Kosovo by 60%. To achieve this objective, the Federal Fund's re-
sources will be enlarged by increasing the share of social sector GMP paid
into the Fund by enterprises from 1.94 to 1.97%. In addition, budgetary
transfers have been increased from the equivalent of 0.83% of total GMP
during 1971-75 to 0.93% for 1976-80. An innovation in the 1976-80 Plan
concerning Federal Fund resources is that the entire 1.97% (or any part
thereof) obligation of the enterprises can be fulfilled by direct investment
in a LDR. In this way it is hoped to improve the transfer of technology,
skilled workers and managerial and marketing expertise to the LDRs. Such
investment is also encouraged by the policy of stimulating vertically linked
enterprises to pool their resources. The Plan also specifies that the major
share of IBRD loans will be channelled to the LDRs.
1.25      Despite the determined efforts of the country to reduce inter-
regional disparities, the issue will remain significant in the near future.
The higher rate of population growth in the LDRs would dilute the differential
growth impact and only a modest reduction of the inter-regional per capita in-
come disparity (from 69 to 71% of the national average for Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Montenegro and Macedonia combined and from 33 to 36% for Kosovo) would be
achieved.
Role of the Bank
1.26      The need to alleviate the problems of unemployment and inter-
regional disparities is thus serious enough to justify continued Bank
involvement in the process of economic growth of the LDRs. The essential
element of the Bank strategy in the industrial development of the LDRs, that
is, the attempt to diversify the industrial structure by encouraging invest-
ment in medium- and small-scale processing industries, retains its importance.
However, the second element of this strategy, that is, promotion of labor-
intensive projects, requires a much more vigorous emphasis than it has been
given in the past.
II.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Financial Institutions
2.01      Multi-purpose banks are the dominant form of financial intermediaries
in Yugoslavia, carrying out all commercial and investment banking functions for
all sectors of the economy. Each region of Yugoslavia has such a bank, though
these banks can also be active in other regions. The four proposed borrowers
are in this category and handle some 80% of investment and commercial banking



- 15 -
in their respective regions. In addition to these banks the financial sector
includes the National Banks, savings institutions, investment loan funds and
insurance institutions.
2.02      The National Banks essentially perform the role of central banks at
the Federal and regional levels; they do not lend directly to industrial or
other enterprises. The main institution devoted solely to attracting savings
is the Post Office Saving Bank. It accepts savings throughout the country,
depositing the funds with the banks according to agreements reached between
the Republics and Autonomous Provinces. The investment loan funds consist
primarily of the Federal Fund (see paras 1.19 and 1.24) and similar funds
within the regions. As these funds derive their resources from obligatory
loans levied on enterprise income and transfer these resources to the banks,
they are mainly a media for collecting and channeling resources rather than
decision-making bodies. Insurance institutions have a limited role in view of
the prevalence of comprehensive social insurance coverage. The vast majority
of their resources are deposited in the banks.
2.03      There are few financial instruments available to potential savers
other than short and medium term bonds issued to finance the Federal budget
deficit and, to a lesser extent, to finance major investments such as power
plants and highways. The returns on these bonds have been comparable to those
paid on bank deposits with similar terms, but they are almost always fully
subscribed to by the population as an expression of patriotic sentiment.
B. The New Banking Law
2.04      A new Federal Banking Law became effective on January 15, 1977.
The main emphasis is on integrating the banks more closely with the needs of
their founders (which are their depositors and borrowers). This Law estab-
lishes a three-tier banking structure consisting of internal banks, basic
banks and associated banks. While the organization and structure of the
four proposed borrowers is affected by the new Law, there is expected to be
little change in the manner and ability of the banks in carrying out the
proposed third and fourth industrial credit projects. The banks must conform
to the new Law within one year of its effectiveness.
2.05      An internal bank in essence is a centralized financial information
unit and internal payments clearing center in a large enterprise or kombinat.
It collects surplus capital of the organizations making up the kombinat (its
members) and channels these resources into projects forming the kombinat's
development plan. It can perform all banking transactions on account of its
members but cannot accept sight deposits.
2.06      Basic banks are the core of the banking system, performing all com-
mercial and investment banking functions on a local basis. Their founders or
members are organizations of associated labor, enterprises and other social



- 16 -
legal entities in the immediate area, including internal banks. Basic banks
typically are unit operations and are expected to be formed from the branches
of the existing banks.
2.07      Associated banks are formed by two or more basic banks in order to
concentrate resources for financing large investment projects. Associated
banks also carry out foreign business transactions on behalf of their member
basic banks, including IBRD projects. In practice, associated banks with
their basic bank members will replace the head offices and branches of existing
banks.
2.08      All three types of banks are required to prepare annual and five-
year plans which are consolidated with the plans of their members. Their
plans in turn are integrated into the overall planning framework described
in Chapter I.
C. Interest Rates
2.09      In conjunction with the second agricultural credit project, approved
by the Board on July 5, 1977, the Association of Yugoslav Banks has agreed to
do a study on the role of interest rates in Yugoslavia. The terms of reference
for the study will be sent to the Bank for review. This study will involve
several institutes and banks and is expected to be completed during the
commitment of the proposed loan. If properly conceived and carried out, this
study should throw more light on what effect interest rates have on resource
mobilization and allocation in Yugoslavia.
2.10      It would appear, though, that given the current planning mechanism
in Yugoslavia interest rates have a limited role in resource mobilization and
allocation. This reflects the Marxist theoretical premise that capital is not
a separate factor of production but "past labor", and that the workers should
have exclusive control over it. 1/ The need for financial intermediation is
accepted, however, along with interest rates.
2.11      Each bank's founders establish the bank's borrowing and lending rates
each year. As the banks are not profit-oriented but service-oriented, the
spread is kept as low as possible. The rates vary between the banks as well
as between types of deposits and loans.  Public time deposits earn between 7.5%
and 10% while deposits by enterprises earn half as much. Long-term loans made
from the banks' regular resources carry interest rates between 4% and 10%. In
recent years these rates have been negative as a result of the high inflation
1/   See Section B, "Market and Planning in the Yugoslav System", in Part II
of the report entitled "Yugoslavia - Self-Management Socialism and the
Challenges of Development" for a fuller treatment of this subject.



- 17 -
rates (20.1% in 1975). While efforts to contain inflation through stern sta-
bilization measures brought the rate down to 13.7% 1/ in 1976, it remains to
be seen whether this rate can be further improved upon in the future.
2.12      Long-term loans using IBRD resources are made at the rates agreed
upon in the Loan Agreement; for both the second industrial and second agri-
cultural credit projects the rate is 11%. The same rate will apply to the
proposed projects. Borrowers bear the foreign exchange risk on all funds
raised abroad.
D. The Role of the Borrowing Banks
Resource Allocation
2.13      Within the framework of the regional development plans and their
own plans the four proposed borrowing banks play a key role in allocating
funds to sound projects. Each bank is the major lender in its region, espe-
cially for industrial projects; about 80% of institutional industrial financ-
ing has been channeled through these banks in recent years. This share is
expected to be maintained in the future.
2.14      The demand on the banks for financing has consistently exceeded
the supply of resources available to the banks. This has allowed the banks
to be selective in choosing the projects they will support. They have the
authority, working in cooperation with the Economic Chambers, to approve,
modify or reject specific investment proposals, whether they are included
in the Plan or not. Between 10% and 30% of the projects brought to the banks
either undergo major modifications or are shelved indefinitely. The banks'
impact on project preparation, however, is even larger than this would sug-
gest as many projects, especially the larger ones, are brought to the banks'
attention at an early stage. If the proposal is unattractive it is dropped
at that point or is reformulated with the assistance of the banks' experi-
enced project appraisal staff into a viable project.
2.15      The banks are keenly aware of the unemployment situation and the
disparities between developed and underdeveloped communes in their regions.
They therefore give priority to labor intensive projects, not only to reduce
unemployment but also to provide job opportunities for emigrant workers
returning from Western Europe. They encourage new enterprises whenever pos-
sible to locate in the underdeveloped communes, and such communes are given
advice and assistance by the banks in formulating their own investment proj-
ects. The current Plan may, however, impede these efforts to some extent
as priority sectors are now specifically identified and have first call on
investment resources; these projects tend to be more capital intensive.
1/   This rate is based on the GMP deflator.  The increase in retail prices
has been reduced from 22% in 1975 to 9% in 1976, and in wholesale prices,
from 22% to 6%.



- 18 -
Resource Mobilization
2.16      Domestic resource mobilization efforts are limited to attracting
deposits from households, enterprises and other organizations. While the
four banks compete with each other and other banks in Yugoslavia, each is
dominant in its respective region. Total deposits have increased substan-
tially in the two and a half years up to the middle of 1977, ranging from
92% for SBS to 189% for IBT. To a large extent this reflects the recent
practice of depositing wages and salaries directly in the banks and a 1976
law requiring an annual revaluation of fixed assets by enterprises to in-
crease their savings rate.
2.17      The banks' efforts in mobilizing foreign resources are directed at
guaranteeing suppliers' credits, attracting deposits of Yugoslav workers
abroad and obtaining foreign loans. The most important of these activities
in terms of amounts involved is guarantees; at the end of 1976 outstanding
guarantees in foreign currency, including letters of credit, ranged from $103
million equivalent by KBP to $1,161 million equivalent by PBS. Foreign
exchange deposits (demand as well as savings and time) on the same date ranged
from $24 million equivalent with IBT to $391 million equivalent with PBS.
Outstanding foreign loan balances varied from $10 million equivalent at KBP
(including $9 million equivalent from IBRD) to $101 million equivalent at SBS
(including $29 million equivalent from IBRD).
2.18      It should be mentioned that foreign exchange borrowing by enter-
prises from abroad is generally subject to a 75% non-interest bearing dinar
deposit at the National Bank of Yugoslavia for the duration of the loan.
Exempt from this deposit requirement are loans from IBRD and IFC, and from
international (non-commercial) organizations in which Yugoslavia has deposits,
e.g. the IICY. Also exempt are borrowings related to projects receiving
finance from these institutions (up to the amount of those loans), priority
sector projects and enterprises which will export one-third of their produc-
tion when at full capacity.
III. THE BORROWING BANKS
A. The Banks' Structure
Legal Framework
3.01      The basic legal framework for the banks was provided by the Federal
Banking Law of 1971 until January 15, 1978, when the new Federal Banking Law
applied. As noted in the previous chapter, application of the new Law is
not expected to result in significant changes as far as these and the previous
industrial credit lines are concerned. Each bank has its own Self-Management
Agreement and Statutes. The banks' operations are regulated by the National
Bank and various Federal directives, and conformity with various laws and



- 19 -
regulations is ensured through supervision by the National Bank and the Social
Accounting Service (Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or SDK).
Ownership
3.02      Yugoslav enterprises in general are owned by "the society" and do
not have share capital or shareholders. Banks, however, have shareholders
(founders or members) and share capital (founders fund). Members include
organizations of associated labor from most of the enterprises in the region
served by the bank, including the largest. The number varies from about 400
for IBT up to over 1,200 for SBS.  Each member has an unlimited liability
for the obligations of his bank.
Assembly and Committees
3.03      The Assembly of a bank is its highest governing body in which each
member has one vote (regardless of the amount contributed to the founders
fund). The Assembly approves the bank's medium range plan, annual plan and
business policy (including interest rates) and elects from among its members
the Executive and Credit Committees. It also decides on the distribution of
the bank's income to employees (in aggregate) and members.
3.04      The Executive Committee is responsible for executing the plans and
policies approved by the Assembly and for approving lending and borrowing
operations. In each bank the Executive Committee has delegated authority to
the Credit Committee to approve smaller loans.
Management and Staff
3.05      The chief executive of each bank is its General Manager who is
appointed for a four-year term by the bank's Assembly 1/. Assistant General
Managers each supervise two or more department Directors. Senior management
of each bank is competent. Managers are typically university graduates
(mostly in economics) with many years experience, often in both banking and
industry. Changes of top managers are infrequent, and professional competence
is the main criterion for selection and appointment at all levels.
3.06      In mid-1977 the number of employees ranged from 585 in KBP to 4,270
in PBS. The rate of growth over the previous two years varied from 5% p.a.
for KBP to 21% p.a. for IBT. About one-quarter of the staff in each bank are
professional, defined as those with a minimum of two years college education.
Organization
3.07      All four banks have a similar organization.  Their head offices are
functionally organized with departments for such activities as resource plan-
ning, investment and administration. The investment activity is subdivided
1/   Except in the case of PBS, where a President, also appointed by the
Assembly, shares the responsibility with the General Manager.



- 20 -
into groups for industry, agriculture, etc., with a common engineering group.
Each bank has several branches, ranging from eight for IBT to 22 for SBS. As
noted earlier, these are each likely to become a basic bank with increased
autonomy, but will remain linked to the present head office which will become
an associated bank.
B. Policies and Procedures
Policies
3.08      The annual business policy of each bank, approved by the Assembly as
an integral part of the bank's annual plan, is prepared against the background
of the regional development plan, the bank's own medium range plan and the
plans of the bank's founders who are also its borrowers. The business policy
covers the mobilization and allocation of resources, the budget and the finan-
cial plan for the forthcoming year.
3.09      The banks do not have formal financial policies concerning their
operations such as exposure limits and maximum debt to equity ratio. Never-
theless, the banks generally follow prudent practices. The members of the
banks ensure a distribution of loans among themselves; any substantial allo-
cation of funds to a particular project or enterprise would have to be in
accordance with the plan. Debt to equity ratios are not very meaningful in
the Yugoslav context and in view of the large amount of Federal and Republic/
Provincial Funds available to the banks which, while treated as debt, have
more the character of managed funds.
Appraisal Procedures
3.10      The four banks use similar procedures for project appraisal.  Local
branches appraise those projects which they can finance from their own re-
sources, and call for Head Office assistance only when required. Projects
involving Federal or Republic/Provincial Funds, or foreign exchange, are
always handled by the Head Offices; these include all projects under the
IBRD lines of credit.
3.11      All banks have qualified project appraisal and supervision staff.
However, staff shortages exist. One problem is that highly qualified eco-
nomic and financial staff familiar with IBRD methods tend to leave the banks
to accept senior posts with enterprises; KBP lost four out of five such staff
members during a recent 18 month period. There is also a shortage of engi-
neers, particularly serious in KBP which has only one civil engineer on its
staff and thus relies completely on outside consultants for a technical judge-
ment on industrial projects. As a temporary measure, SBS and PBS are "lending"
some of their own project appraisal staff to KBP for short periods of time.
All banks are actively trying to recruit additional experienced staff.
In addition, a seminar on appraisal methods was held in February 1978 and
additional ones are contemplated.



- 21 -
3.12      The quality of appraisal reports received from the banks, while
generally acceptable in the past, has continued to improve. However, a fur-
ther upgrading is desirable, particularly regarding marketing aspects and
translation of technical terms into English. The financial rate of return
(FRR) and the economic rate of return (ERR) is calculated for all "A" type
sub-projects, whether submitted to the Bank or not, and for some of the
smaller projects. For internal use all banks employ a standard Yugoslav
methodology for these calculations, which is similar to, but not identical
with, the method advocated by the Bank; a revision of the Yugoslav method, to
be published in 1978, is expected to minimize the differences between the two
procedures.
Supervision, Procurement and Disbursement
3.13      Supervision work in general is satisfactory, with the sites of
major projects being visited by technical and financial staff at least every
three months, and by some banks more frequently. Financial supervision relies
on monthly reports and quarterly financial statements. Staff shortages some-
times interfere with regular supervision schedules.
3.14      Procurement procedures followed by the banks are uniform and gener-
ally acceptable. The borrower must obtain at least three bids for all equip-
ment and services. Exceptions to this requirement are allowed in special
circumstances, for example for Yugoslav contractors for specialized instal-
lation work when there are less than three firms capable of doing the work.
Large projects require international tendering. Equipment similar to that
manufactured in Yugoslavia can only be imported with special permission of the
Federal Chamber of Economy. In considering the most appropriate procurement
procedure for any sub-project the borrowing banks should include international
competitive bidding as one possibility. Under the proposed projects they will
have to justify to the Bank the use of any other procurement method for large
contracts (see para 4.22).
3.15      Disbursements are made on the basis of invoices from suppliers and
contractors or similar evidence of deliveries, or on the execution of contracts.
The disbursement procedures are in line with and up to the standards of other
DFCs financed by the Bank.
C. The Banks' Operations
3.16      The main areas of operation of the banks are loans and guarantees;
equity investments are negligible. Each bank manages large amounts of funds
on behalf of local government and other socio-political organizations at no
risk to itself.
3.17      Short-Term Loans.  Short-term commitments during 1976 ranged from
Din. 0.9 billion ($49.5 million equivalent) (IBT) to Din. 42.8 billion ($2,351.6
million equivalent) (PBS), accounting for 31% (IBT) to 76% (PBS) of their total
loan commitments in 1976. The majority of these short-term loans are three-
month revolving credits to provide working capital to enterprises.



- 22 -
3.18      Long-Term Loans.  Long-term loan commitments of the four banks to
all sectors amounted to Din. 56.1 billion ($3,084.3 million equivalent) during
1975 and 1976. This was double the amount of commitments made during 1973 and
1974. In 1976, commitments by three banks (excluding SBS) were about a third
greater than in 1975, mainly due to commitments for a few large projects.
SBS's commitments in 1976 dropped to about half of the level attained in 1975.
Industrial loans accounted for between 49% (SBS) and 81% (PBS) of the total
long-term loan commitments made in 1976. The average foreign exchange portion
of these loans is small, being at most 20% of the total loan amount, with the
remaining foreign exchange requirements covered by suppliers' credits and the
enterprises' own foreign resources. None of the four banks takes security
for their long-term loans except for housing loans to individuals. However,
the banks take promissory notes along with loan agreements which can be used
as more efficient instruments for collection in case of defaults.
3.19      Guarantees.  The total amount of guarantees given by the four banks
in favor of enterprises during 1975 and 1976 amounted to Dinar 53.6 billion
($2,945.1 million) compared with Dinar 27.6 billion ($1,516.5 million) given
during the previous two years. Guarantees in local currency include those
given to SDK in favor of enterprises to assure that the portion of the enter-
prises' own funds need for a project is available. Guarantees in foreign
exchange deal mostly with letters of credit and suppliers' credits.
D. The Bank's Financial Situation
Resource Position
3.20      A summary of the long-term resource position as of June 30, 1977,
is given below:
Table 7: LONG-TERM RESOURCE POSITION AS OF JUNE 30, 1977
(in Millions of Dinars)
PBS        SES       IBT       KBP
Equity                                       2,052      2,839       674    1,141
Federal and regional Funds                  14,520     12,294    5,072   14,705
Long-term domestic borrowings                6,819      7,992    2,843    1,055
Long-term foreign borrowings                 2,724      2,785    2,620    1,676
Long-term deposits                           7,098      4,472    2,275        843
Total resources available             33,214      30,382   13,484   19,420
Long-term loan portfolio as per
balance sheet                         36,572      28,501   11,124   17,252
Undisbursed resources                 (3,358)/1   1,881    2,360    2,169
Undisbursed long-term commitments           12,924     15,985    4,122    2,776
Uncommitted resources (over-
commitments)                      (16,282)    (14,104)  (1,762)    (607)
/1   Covered with short-term funds.



- 23 -
Federal and Republic/Provincial Funds are the largest source for any of the
four banks accounting for between 40% (IBT) and 75% (KBP) of their total
long-term resources. Prudent usage of short-term funds for long-term loans
is allowed under Yugoslav law. In PBS's case, about 10% of long-term loans
outstanding as of June 30, 1977, were financed by short-term resources. Each
bank had substantially overcommitted itself as of June 30, 1977. This re-
flects the fact that the four banks plan their operations on a disbursement
basis rather than a commitment basis. A substantial part of the overcommit-
ment will be covered by Federal Fund resources, which the banks will receive
in accordance with the Plan.
Financial Performance
3.21      The income statements of the four banks are given in Annex 1.  The
financial performance of the banks has to be viewed in the Yugoslav context.
Banks are not considered to be profit generators; they are expected to earn
only enough to cover their expenses and make prescribed allocations to
reserves. During the past two years, the administrative expenses of the
four banks as a percentage of average total loans outstanding ranged from
0.5% (SBS, KBP) to 1.5% (PBS), and the total amount allocated to reserves as
a percentage of average loans outstanding was about 1%. Therefore, it would
have been sufficient if each bank had earned a spread of 1.5-2.5% on their
loans. However, the actual margin during the past two years was somewhat
higher, with PBS reaching a spread of 2.9% in 1976. This reflects the diffi-
culty the banks have in finding their break-even point due to the large vari-
eties of borrowing and lending rates. Because of this "excess" spread the
founders of the four banks as well as the Federal Governments have been
pressing each bank to reduce lending rates. Since the beginning of 1976 the
maximum lending rate for long-term loans has been reduced by 1.0-2.5 percent-
age points.
Financial Position
3.22      The balance sheets of the four banks are given in Annex 2.  Total
assets increased by 60% (SBS) to 125% (KBP) during the 30 months period
ending June 30, 1977. As of that date total assets ranged from Din. 17.0
billion ($934.1 million equivalent) (IBT) to Din. 64.9 billion ($3,565.9
million equivalent) (PBS) of which the long-term portfolio accounted for 56%
(PBS) to 69% (KBP). The liquidity position of the four banks is generally
satisfactory, and each bank is subject to close supervision by the National
Bank of Yugoslavia in this respect. Long-term debt/equity ratios 1/ as of
December 31, 1976, were high in the case of IBT and KBP (14.2:1 and 16.2:1)
while those of PBS and SBS were 8.9:1 and 7.8:1. However, if the Federal and
Republic/Provincial Funds are excluded from the debt/equity calculations in
view of their special nature (see para 3.09), the ratios would drop to a
maximum of 7.7:1 (IBT).
1/   The Reserve Fund, which has the character of provisions for doubtful
debts, is excluded from equity in this calculation.



- 24 -
Arrears
3.23      The arrears on long-term loans of the four banks are presented in
Table 8 below:
Table 8: LONG-TERM LOANS IN ARREARS
(in Millions of Dinars)
Long-Term
Loans      (1) as % of             Principal in Arrears
Affected    Total Long-    Total
by       Term Loans        over    3 - 6   6 - 12   Over 12
As of:          Arrears (1)  Outstanding   3 months  months  months   months
PBS
June 30, 1975      8,128           40.3         117        93       13         11
Dec. 31, 1976    11,774            36.0         207       166       16         26
June 30, 1977      8,754           23.9         175       103      49         23
SBS
June 30, 1975      7,099           36.6         256       172      49         35
Dec. 31, 1976      8,357           35.1         761       525       71       165
June 30, 1977      6,078           21.3         482       272       70       150
IBT
June 30, 1975      1,379           20.1          33        18      13          2
Dec. 31, 1976         532           5.5          29        10       10         10
June 30, 1977        677            6.1          41        18      15          3
KBP
June 30, 1975      1,934           21.3          81        37      32         12
Dec. 31, 1976      5,622           38.6         139        66      55         18
June 30, 1977      2,773           16.1          70        30      36          4
The four banks' arrears position has generally improved over the two years
from June 1975 to June 1977. Long-term loans affected by arrears of over
three months as a percentage of the total long-term loan portfolio dropped
from 40% to 24% for PBS and from 37% to 21% for SBS. The main reasons for
the improvement were the improved liquidity position of enterprises and the
intensified collection procedures followed by the four banks.
3.24      None of the four banks have experienced significant write-offs in
the past and reschedulings have been few. In view of the past experience
the management of each of the four banks believes that there will not be any
significant loss in the future. In addition, each bank maintains by law a
reserve to cover losses. However, it is difficult to assess the quality of
the long-term loan portfolio due to the limited availability of data and
because the audit reports do not cover this aspect of the banks' situation
in the detail usual for DFCs due to the multi-purpose nature of the banks.



- 25 -
The four banks have undertaken that they will each carry out an annual port-
folio analysis coverin-, loan arrears and reschedulings and, on the basis of
this analysis, assess the risk and magnitude of possible losses. This under-
taking is similar to the one reached in connection with the second agricul-
tural credit project.
Audit
3.25      At the time of negotiations for the Second Industrial Credit in
April 1976, the four banks set a target period of two to three years during
which SDK's audits were to be gradually. broadened to full audits following,
to the extent possible, generally accepted accounting standards. SDK's audit
work in this respect has made satisfactory progress, helped to a great extent
by a Bank-supported training program within SDK which began in 1974. For the
year 1976 SDK produced full audit reports on PBS and SBS and partial audit
reports on IBT and KBP. The scope of audit work and the coverage of branch
operations for these audit reports were expanded from the previous year. The
opinions given in the PBS and SBS reports are not qualified. SDK intends to
prepare full audits on all four banks for 1977 and later years.
Creditworthiness
3.26      Each of the four banks is considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
However, conventional assessment of creditworthiness is neither fully possible
nor entirely appropriate in view of the unique Yugoslav banking system. The
assesssment of creditworthiness is based on the same arguments that were
advanced for the previous two Industrial Credits which are the following:
(1) There have been no significant loan losses in the past and
the arrears position is manageable. Reserves for doubtful
debts are generally adequate.
(2) The management of each bank observes sound banking principles
in respect to resource management and project selection.
(3) The continued solvency of each bank is virtually assured
because:
(i)  The founders of the banks each have unlimited liability
for the banks' obligations. These founders form the
backbone of each region's economic structure.
(ii)  Under the existing Yugoslav economic system each
bank's creditworthiness is closely tied to that of
the Yugoslav economy itself. A bank failure is not
conceivable without a concurrent failure of the
whole economic system.



- 26 -
E. Performance Under the Previous Industrial Credit Projects
3.27      The previous two industrial credit projects had the dual objectives
of (1) financing small- and medium-size projects in manufacturing and process-
ing industry and (2) institution building. Overall, the banks have made
satisfactory progress in achieving these objectives.
3.28      Under the second industrial credit project co-financing of sub-
projects with other foreign exchange resources was encouraged by providing a
higher limit for a project's total cost and a longer grace period for such
co-financed projects. This arrangement generally worked effectively. Five of
PBS's projects above the free limit and seven below the free limit received
co-financing totalling $10.4 million equivalent, almost equalling IBRD's com-
mitment to these projects of $11.1 million equivalent, while five of SBS's
projects above the free limit and one below the free limit received co-
financing totalling $3.3 million equivalent, representing 63% of IBRD's
commitments. In the case of IBT, one project above and one project below the
free limit received co-financing almost equal to IBRD's commitment of $2.6
million equivalent. So far only one of KBP's projects has received co-
financing slightly exceeding IBRD's commitment of $2.5 million equivalent;
however, KBP still has some $11 million of its $16.6 million portion to
commit. In view of the above results it is recommende& that the Bank continue
to provide encouragement for co-financing, though under the proposed projects
this will be limited to providing a longer grace period (see para 4.21).
3.29      The financial rate of return (FRR) estimated by the banks for proj-
ects above the free limit financed under the two industrial credit projects
ranged from 15% to over 45%, while the estimated economic rate of return
(ERR) ranged from 12% to above 40%; the agreed minimum for both was 10% under
the first industrial credit project and 11% under the second industrial
credit project. The estimated average total cost per job created by these
projects was $39,400 equivalent in 1977 prices, which is a satisfactory
average in view of the advanced stage of economic development of Yugoslavia.
The average fixed investment 1/ cost per job created in the industrial sector
(excluding the capital intensive, basic industry subsectors of electricity,
coal and petroleum) in the LDRs during 1974 and 1975 was $52,100 equivalent
in 1977 prices.
3.30      The quality of appraisal work has improved; FRR and ERR calculations
are now widely employed and correctly interpreted in most cases. Audit work
by SDK has made good progress (see para 3.25). However, each bank could fur-
ther strengthen its management information system, particularly information
regarding the loan portfolio and their borrowers' financial condition (see
para 3.24).
1/   Excludes permanent working capital for which figures are not available.



- 27 -
3.31      The first industrial credit line is expected to be fully disbursed
by the end of 1978, at which time a project completion report should be pre-
pared. The four banks through the Unit will provide the Bank with the basic
data needed for this purpose. The four banks have undertaken to prepare a
project completion report on the proposed projects (as well as basic data on
the second project) some five years later.
F. Forecast of the Banks' Operations and Financial Performance
3.32      Each bank will be obliged to prepare a medium-term plan under the
new Banking Law, which they will do after each bank is reorganized during the
first half of 1978 to conform to the new Law. The five-year projections
(1978-82) discussed below were prepared to facilitate the appraisal of the
proposed loan and may be modified once the banks' plans are approved. Pro-
jected cash flows, income statements and balance sheets are given in Annexes
3-5.
3.33      Short-term Lending Operations.  KBP's, PBS's and SBS's short-term
loans are projected to grow at about 20% p.a. compared with the 30-40% p.a.
growth realized during the 1974-76 period. The volume of IBT's short-term
loans fluctuated in the past and is expected to continue to do so until 1979
when it is projected to increase at about 20% p.a.
3.34      Long-term Lending Operations.  Projected long-term lending opera-
tions are summarized below (in current prices):
Table 9: SUMMARY OF PROJECTED TOTAL LONG-TERM LENDING OPERATIONS
(Commitments, Millions of Dinar)
Annual
Annual                      Annual                       Growth
Average for                  Average for                   Rate for
1973-76 (1)       1977       1978-82 (2)    (2)/(1)        1978-82
(Actual)     (Estimate)     (Forecast)         %         % (Forecast)
PBS        7,078         10,200         15,465          218             19
SBS        6,878          7,800         13,240          192             16
IBT        3,242          5,513          4,145          128              - /1
KBP        3,608          7,318         13,726          380             20
/1   IBT's forecast for long-term lending operations fluctuates yearly and
stays below the estimated level of 1977.
Each bank's projections are largely based on its region's Plan.  Loans for
industrial projects account for between 60% (SBS) and 82% (PBS) of the total.
It is assumed that prices will increase at a rate of 8-10% p.a. For 1978
the projections are mainly based on the project pipeline and for the period



- 28 -
1979-82 commitments are projected to grow at an annual rate of between 12%
(SBS) and 20% (PBS and KBP). IBT's commitment projection during the 1979-82
period is about three-quarters of the average level for 1977-78 as a number
of large projects are included in this earlier period.
3.35      Resource Requirements.  The four banks' resource mobilization plans
appear reasonable in general. Each bank except KBP expects to receive Federal
and Republic Funds in the same proportion to total long-term resource require-
ments as in the past (40%-55%). KBP expects Federal and Provincial Funds to
represent a smaller proportion than before, hence its unidentified resource
gap is the largest of all four banks (about 20% of total resource require-
ments). The unidentified resource gap of the other three banks ranges from
about 5% (PBS) to 15% (SBS, IBT). PBS and SBS expect to use about 20% of
total short-term funds to finance long-term loans. In view of the increasing
trend of short-term deposits the usage of short-term funds to this degree
would not pose a problem for the two banks.
3.36      Financial Projections.  Each bank intends to maintain a spread just
sufficient to cover administrative expenses and mandatory provisions, about
2%. The projected liquidity position appears satisfactory with the current
ratio ranging between 0.9 and 1.9. 1/  The long-term debt/equity ratio will
continue to rise since none of the banks expects to build up its equity more
than is required by law. However, in the context of the Yugoslav economic
system, the crucial question is not the size of the banks' own funds (equity)
but the financial strength of the borrowing banks in a wider sense, as dis-
cussed in para 3.26. Under these premises the four banks are expected to
remain creditworthy in future years.
IV. THE PROJECTS
A. Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed projects are similar to those of
the previous two. In addition to providing foreign exchange resources to
Yugoslavia to finance industrial development, they will (1) help alleviate
unemployment; (2) assist in the development of the LDRs; and (3) assist the
four banks to continue to strengthen their institutions.
4.02      In order to more actively attack the problem of unemployment in the
LDRs, part of the proposed loan funds will be specifically allocated to labor
intensive projects, defined as projects providing employment at a maximum cost
1/   PBS's and SBS's current ratios are projected to be 0.9 during the 1978-82
period because some short-term funds will be used to finance long-term
loans.



- 29 -
per job of $23,000 equivalent. This cost is based on the threshold figure for
Yugoslavia developed for the urban poverty program ($13,700/job using 1976
figures) adjusted to account for real growth and inflation that will take
place between 1976 and the time the projects are actually implemented. It
should be noted that this is the first project in Yugoslavia to have a specific
labor intensive component and thus should serve to heighten awareness of the
need to, and desirability of, providing jobs at as low a cost as possible.
The focus on smaller manufacturing and industrial processing projects (see
para 4.03), continued from the previous industrial credit projects, reinforces
this emphasis.
4.03      The second objective is achieved by limiting the proposed projects
to the four LDRs. In addition, to promote diversification within the indus-
trial sectors of the LDRs away from large, capital intensive basic industries,
which have attracted the bulk of investment capital in the past, the majority
of the funds could be used only to finance small- and medium-size projects in
manufacturing, processing or small basic industries. (Agro-industrial proj-
ects are excluded since such projects are being financed under other Bank
loans.) Assistance in institution building will be provided through review
of the banks' appraisal reports on the larger projects as well as through
periodic visits and consultations. In view of KBP's particularly acute needs
in this area, a portion of its loan would be specifically allocated to tech-
nical assistance (see para 4.09).
4.04      As was the case with the second industrial credit project, co-
financing will be encouraged by allowing somewhat longer grace periods on sub-
loans when the project is also being financed from other foreign sources.
These other sources typically require repayment in five to six years with a
grace period of only one to two years, so a longer grace period on Bank sub-
loans will provide a more appropriate cash flow pattern for the project.
B. Use of the Proceeds of the Proposed Loans
4.05      Four loans are proposed, three of $20 million each to IBT, SBS and
PBS and one of $40 million to KBP. The loan to KBP incorporates two features
unique to KBP.  The proceeds of the loans would be allocated as follows (in
$ million):
KBP   IBT   SBS   PBS    Total
Labor intensive projects                5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0    20.0
Normal projects                        14.7  15.0  15.0  15.0    59.7
Special projects                       20.0   -      -     -      20.0
Technical assistance                    0.3   -      -     -       0.3
40.0  20.0  20.0  20.0   100.0
Reallocation between the components of the loan to KBP would be permissible
with Bank approval.



- 30 -
4.06      Five million dollars of the funds loaned to each bank would be
allocated to labor intensive projects. As the main purpose of these projects
is to provide low cost jobs, there would be no limitations on the size of
projects or sub-loans or on the type of projects; the only criterion (besides
the usual technical, financial and economic criteria) would be that the
projects provide jobs at a cost per job of no more than $23,000 equivalent.
4.07      Normal projects would be small- and medium-sized industrial projects,
the same types of projects as were financed under the previous industrial
credit lines. There would be a limit on the size of sub-loans and a restric-
tion on the size of sub-projects, though the latter would be of a different
type than under the previous projects (see paras 4.16 and 4.17).
4.08      One of the characteristics of projects in Kosovo is that they tend
to be large. This reflects the past pattern of industrial development in
the Province where the primary focus was on exploiting large mineral deposits
and on the processing and utilization of such minerals; this type of industry
tends to consist of large enterprises. As a result, KBP experienced diffi-
culty under the first two industrial credit projects in identifying suitable
projects that did not exceed the normal maximum size limitations imposed
in the Loan Agreement, and this has led to delays in committing the earlier
loans. To help avoid this situation and in response to the Government's
request, $20.0 million of KBP's proposed loan would be allocated in advance
for three specific projects already tentatively identified. These projects
are larger 1/ than other projects that are expected to be submitted under
the proposed loan but otherwise meet all of the usual criteria. One is the
modernization and expansion of a lead smelter and refining plant. Without the
project the plant would have to close and over 1,000 jobs would be lost. A
second is the establishment of a heavy duty battery plant which is expected to
export some 70% of its production. The third is a plant to produce casing and
plastic parts for the heavy duty battery plant. All three are being prepared
by the Trepca Kombinat and are expected to involve foreign co-financing.
The projects will include the installation of suitable anti-pollution devices,
especially needed at the lead smelter. These projects will use local raw
material, will be located in underdeveloped communes in Kosovo and will help
to diversify the industrial sector. Each will be reviewed by the Bank in a
more intensive fashion than normal, including field missions.  Procurement
procedures must meet the requirements discussed in para 4.22. If one or more
of these projects proves to be unacceptable, it could be replaced by another
provided the substitute project creates or retains jobs at a cost per job of
no more than $60,000 equivalent.
4.09      In recognition of the special difficulties faced in Kosovo by enter-
prises and by KBP in identifying, preparing and then operating projects in
new fields (for example, diversifying from basic industries to processing
1/   While these projects are likely to be the largest financed under the
proposed loan, they are still smaller than typical projects that attract
direct Bank lending.



- 31 -
industries), a part of KBP's proposed loan would be allocated to technical
assistance. KBP has indicated four areas where it and its clients could use
such assistance. One is marketing advice covering individual subsectors, for
example textiles or wood products, to help identify promising new project
ideas. The second is assistance by foreign specialists in reviewing large
projects prepared by large enterprises such as Trepca.  The third is technical
advice for projects already in production but which are experiencing oper-
ational dit7ficulties.  The fourth is training for KBP's staff, or the staff of
a project already in production; such training would be in appropriate foreign
industries rather than in academic institutions.
C. Economic Justification
4.10      The proposed loans are justifiable at the macro level on the grounds
that they will lead to the creation of badly needed job opportunities in the
LDRs while helping to correct the regional disparities in development and
standard of living. Based on the projects identified by the four banks at the
time of appraisal as being eligible for financing under the proposed loans,
some 11,200 jobs would be created or retained. The new emphasis on maximizing
the number of jobs created per dollar invested is expected to result in
approximately 4,400 of these jobs being created at a cost of less than $23,000
equivalent each, the urban poverty program threshold as adjusted to forecast
1979 costs. The proceeds of the proposed loans will not be used to finance
projects in basic industry, which are relatively capital intensive 1/, but
instead will facilitate badly needed diversification of the industrial sectors
of the LDRs which are skewed towards basic industry.
4.11      At the micro level, the ERR of sub-projects to be financed from the
proposed loans is not known at this time, as is usual for DFC projects. How-
ever, the estimated ERR of sub-projects financed under the past two loans has
ranged from 12% to above 40%, on average well above the minimum acceptable
rate of 11% established in the second Loan Agreement (10% in the first).
Sub-projects financed under the proposed loans are expected to yield similar
results. A third of the projects identified by the four banks would involve
foreign co-financing to cover part of the foreign exchange costs; an unknown
number of projects would involve foreign co-financing to cover part of the
local costs, allowed under Yugoslav regulations.
1/   The "special" lead smelter project is an exception.  However, because it
will lead to the retention of over 1,000 jobs, it is relatively labor
intensive; the cost per job retained or created is currently estimated
at $37,000 equivalent.



- 32 -
D. Main Features of the Loans
Loan Amount and Period of Commitment
4.12      The amount of the proposed loans, $100 million, has been established
in the context of competing demands of other Yugoslav projects for the neces-
sarily limited amount of Bank funds allocated to Yugoslavia. Were it to be
committed evenly over the usual two-year period for DFC loans, it would cover
only a fraction of the banks' foreign exchange needs for projects which meet
the criteria established for the proposed loans. In view of the fact that the
banks had already tentatively identified at the time of appraisal sufficient
projects to utilize most of the loan proceeds, it is likely that the loans will
be committed in a shorter period than the usual two years. The banks understand
that additional industrial credit lines in less than two years is unlikely.
However this time gap will not pose a serious problem in the Bank's institu-
tion-building efforts as staff visits and consultations will continue without
interruption.
Use of Proceeds
4.13      The proceeds of the proposed loans will be used to help finance the
foreign exchange costs (and in rare instances the local costs--see para 4.22)
of fixed assets and permanent working capital for projects that meet the agreed
criteria. These criteria are set out in a "Statement of Operations and Poli-
cies for the Project" and attached as a Schedule to the Loan Agreements as was
done in the earlier industrial credit projects. As with the second industrial
credit project, sub-projects must meet a minimum FRR and ERR of 11%. The
proposed loan to KBP will also cover the foreign exchange costs of technical
assistance, mainly foreign consultants.
Administrative Arrangements
4.14       Administrative functions will be handled by a joint Unit consisting
of four Sub-Units, one from each bank. Each Sub-Unit will consist of three
appropriate staff members from its bank acceptable to IBRD. The Unit will
coordinate those activities under the proposed projects and the two previous
industrial credit projects which involve all four banks. These include
ensuring systematic and consistent preparation of progress reports and the
promotion within the banks of improved appraisal and supervision methodology,
including the organization of periodic seminars. The individual Sub-Units
will handle those matters which affect only one bank.
4.15      Sub-loan applications to IBRD for sub-projects under the proposed
loans will be submitted directly by each bank. The Sub-Unit of the bank sub-
mitting a sub-loan application will ensure that the sub-loan request and the
sub-project satisfy the criteria established under the proposed loans; a
statement to this effect by the Sub-Unit will accompany each application.
These arrangements are the same as for the second industrial credit project.



- 33 -
Sub-Loan and Sub-Project Size Limitations
4.16      For those portions of the proposed loans allocated to "normal" proj-
ects sub-loans will normally not exceed $3.0 million equivalent (the limit
under the second industrial credit project was $2.5 million equivalent),
ensuring the financing of a reasonably large number of projects. Under the
second industrial credit project the total cost of sub-projects was limited
to $6.0 million equivalent unless there was foreign co-financing involved
when a higher limit of $10.0 million equivalent applied. This higher limit
was introduced in order to induce more co-financing as it was felt that larger
sub-projects would tend to have more need for, and be better able to absorb,
such co-financing. In the event, the smaller sub-projects seem to have
attrached co-financing with more or less equal ease as Bank funds lent to
any sub-project can be "matched" with foreign funds without the borrower having
to meet the deposit requirement (see para 2.18). The extra inducement of a
higher total sub-project cost limit therefore is no longer needed.
4.17      These limits on total sub-project cost were imposed under the two
previous projects to help ensure that small- and medium-size sub-projects
were financed as they tend to be more labor intensive than large sub-projects.
To allow, however, for the possibility that a larger sub-project may also be
relatively labor intensive, sub-projects whose total cost exceeds $10 million
equivalent will be considered for financing under the proposed projects if
they create jobs at a total cost per job of $40,000 equivalent or less.
This figure is two-thirds of the average fixed investment cost per new job
in the industrial sector in the LDRs in 1979 prices ($60,500 equivalent),
based on the average for 1974-75 discussed in para 3.29. It is less than the
average cost per job created by sub-projects above the free limit under the
previous two projects, again adjusted for past and expected inflation ($45,750
equivalent).
Free Limit and Aggregate Free Limit
4.18      In recognition of the improvements in each bank's project appraisal
work and because of IBRD's growing familiarity with and greater confidence in
these institutions, the free limit on individual sub-loans will be raised from
the $500,000 established under the second industrial credit project to $1.0
million. The aggregate free limit for each bank will also be raised from
around 40% to 60% of its proposed loan (in the case of KBP, only those parts
allocated to "normal" and labor intensive projects). This will allow the
Bank to review for approval between 12 and 16 appraisal reports (three or four
sub-projects per bank), a reasonable number. In addition, the appraisal
reports on the three "special" KBP projects will be reviewed (see para 4.08).
Loan and Sub-Loan Terms
4.19      The proposed loans will be made on the Bank's normal terms and con-
ditions as applicable to DFC loans, including the standard commitment charge,
with adjustable repayment schedules reflecting the composite repayments of



- 34 -
sub-loans. The repayment of that part of KBP's loan allocated for technical
assistance will be prorated over the repayment schedule for the rest of KBP's
loan.
4.20      The repayment period of individual sub-loans will not exceed 15
years from the date of signing of the proposed loans. (Under the second
industrial credit project a repayment period of up to 15 years from the date
of Bank approval of the sub-loan was allowed.) Grace periods can normally
be up to three years (as before). To encourage blending of Bank funds with
other foreign exchange resources, which are expected to be mainly medium-term
credits, grace periods of up to five years (six years before) will be allowed
when there is co-financing and the need for such a longer grace period can be
demonstrated.
4.21      The on-lending rate to be charged by the banks on IBRD funds will
be 11% with the sub-borrowers assuming the foreign exchange risk; this is the
same as under the second industrial credit project. This rate approximates
current market costs of foreign borrowings to Yugoslav investors and will
provide the banks an adequate spread.  In addition, domestic resources lent
to social sector sub-projects receiving IBRD funds will carry an interest rate
of at least 6%, and to private sector sub-projects, at least 5% (there may be
exceptions in Kosovo). This is the same condition as imposed under the second
agricultural credit project and is a step towards unifying lending rates
country-wide.
Procurement
4.22      Some sub-projects may be received under the proposed projects that
are of such a size and nature that international competitive bidding (ICB)
using the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement might be the most economical and
efficient method of procurement. While the detailed criteria identifying such
sub-projects cannot be established in advance, the total cost of an individual
contract is a reasonable proxy. Under the proposed projects, therefore, while
the appropriateness of ICB should be considered for all foreign procurement,
any individual contract for imported goods that is expected to exceed $2.0
million equivalent and to be financed in whole or in part from the proposed
loans will be considered a candidate for procurement under ICB. For such
contracts the borrowing bank and its sub-borrower will be required to explore
the appropriateness of ICB. If they decide that ICB is not appropriate, this
decision must be justified satisfactorily to the Bank before the sub-project
will be considered as eligible for Bank financing. If they do follow ICB, and
a Yugoslav supplier wins the bid, the ex-factory cost of these goods will be
eligible for financing with Bank funds; this situation is expected to arise
only in rare instances. The Bank will undertake a full review of all procure-
ment documents and procedures for contracts expected to exceed $4.0 million
equivalent that are procured under ICB and will selectively review smaller
contracts.



- 35 -
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the four banks on
the following principal issues:
(a)  the four banks through the Unit will provide the Bank with the
basic data needed to prepare a project completion report on
the first industrial credit project once it is fully disbursed
and will prepare a project completion report on the proposed
projects (as well as basic data on the second project) some
five years later (para 3.31);
(b)  sub-projects whose total cost exceeds $10.0 million equivalent
will not be eligible for financing unless they create employ-
ment at a total cost per job of $40,000 equivalent or less
(para 4.17);
(c)  domestic resources lent to social sector sub-projects
receiving IBRD funds will carry an interest rate of at
least 6%, and to private sector sub-projects, at least
5% (para 4.21);
(d)  any individual contract for imported goods that is expected
to exceed $2.0 million equivalent will be procured following
ICB procedures unless an alternative procedure is satisfac-
torily justified (para 4.22); and
(e)  the four banks will each carry out an annual portfolio
analysis (para 3.24).
5.02      The projects are suitable for four Bank loans totalling $100 million
equivalent on the terms and conditions outlined in Chapter IV.



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS III & IV
Stateaent- of Inc-,e and EUpene.s,  1975 - June 30, 1977
(in Millions of Diners)
P91S                                          lBS                                            IBT                            __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _
Jan.  - June                                  Jan. - Ju.n                                     Jan. - June                              P    Jan, - une
1975          1976           1977             1975           1976          1977              1975           1976          1977              1975           1976           1977
INCOME                                                     (----Audited--  )    (Proviaional)             (----Audited ----)    (Peevi.ional)           (----Audited----)       (Provisional)           (----Audited----)      (Provisional)
Interest on loons                                    1.990        2,674          2,028              1,766        2,344          1,305             558             761           4a3               639             940          608
Interent on bank deposits                              150            27           -                   50          150            183              22              26            48                32              37           16
Fees. coaainsionn and charges                          184          232            100                 45           64             35               17             25            12                31              46           13
Other                                                  223          218            123                160          167             68               88             79            40                67      -  -   80            30
Oro.n Inco=e                                   2.547         3,151         2,251              2,201         2,725         16591              685             899          563                769          1,103           667
EXPERSES
Interent on:
Individual deposits                                  522          757           474                 466          631           384               36              52            63                46             65            42
Other deposits and borrowingn                        865          884            955                683        1,119           694              343             480           328               405            606           376
Debts witten off                                       1             7             2                  7           55             18               2              -             -                 -               -            -
Other.                                               212          149            138                190          128             66             136              97            42                67             41            23
Total Financial inpenena                     1,600         1,797         1,429              1,346         1,933         1,162              517            629           433               518             712          441
Administrative Expeses:
Salarina and personnel                           213           293           172                  99          134            80               36              42           23               41               51            31
Others                                            137          182             82                 56           73            40               18              26            13              27               40            11
Total Administrative Enpensas               350           475           254                155          207            120               54             68            36               68               91           42    e
Total E.pensea                            1.950         2.272         1,683              1,501        2,140          1,282             571             697           469              586              803          483
Income Deftrn Statutory Obligations                         597           879           568                520           585           309              114             202           94              183              300           184
Statutory Obligation.  (Tax)                                  94          118            62                  52           60            29               13              15                            19                6             S
Net                                                         503oe -  _761               506                468           525           280              101             187                           164              294           179
APPROPRIATIONS-
Founders Pund                                           89           114                              139          188                              18             45                             31              I1I
Referve Fund                                           163           223                              154          132                              46             65                             69               91
Boniness Fund                                          193         )                                   21           27                              25             64                             60               11
Fund of the Bank's Working Cosaunity                    58           424                              154          178                              12             13                              4               81
503          761                              468           525                            101             587                            164             294
1/  The net income as shown is not net of provisinsa for doabtful debta since nu specific provison
against portfolio losses is nade.  The appronpgation to thn keeeree Fund is a legal requirment
and can be considered as a prov-iio  for doubtful  debts.  Under the new Federal Banking Lxw
which is to be applied after January 15, 1978  the Founders Fund would be-one provisions for
doubtful debta with the Reserve Funds being regarded an reserves for liquidity.
2/  As stated by the banks (iofoormtion on appropriations is not included in the audit reports
prepared by SDK).
EMENA/IDF
Dec-mber 1977



YOGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS III 6 IV
I/
Balance Sheets5  1975 - June 30. 1977 -
(in Slillona of Dinara
PUS                                         lS                                           ]IT                          e.3       e.3            oe3
Dec. 31   Dec. 31          1e77                 31975    IS36        June 30             Dec. 31   Dec.  31        June 30            Dec. 31   Dee. 31           1977
1973     '1976           1977              11935       1936           1977               1973       1976           1977                1975      1976           17
ASSETS                                                         (----AudiAed----)    (Provisiasalj           =-Y--     Nd::d i    (Pro_iadonalj           (----Aadited----)      (ProwiCiunOl)          ---  udi$ed----)          I     oh
Cash and due frc  bank                                     1,609       2.800        3,216               1,058      1,562         1,772                 464         803         1,084                577         971         1,115
Depoaita with National Bank                                2,632       3.645        4,378               1,040      1,447         1,678                 315         507           648                424         687           799
Short-ten loans up to one year and current
Shatucitlel of lanp-teo  Loan    d                      15,641      1851          17,576             11,329     1,0335        11,718               2,746       3,355         3,758              4,564       6,085         4,981
Long-tenr loan  over one year less
currant osturities                                      17,585     28,71         34,23               14,987     21,545        25,843              6,267       9,201        10,601               8,783      12,445        16,127
Loans for hou.ing and connunal constructioi
legs current aaturities                                  1.971      2,066         2,289              1,937       2,252         2,658                310         419           523                 759         980        1,124
Property and equipment                                       450         563          638                 194        254           288                  70          60            80                104         150           194
Ac-vued interest and other ..setC                          1,725       2.846        2.510                 906      1,117         1,176                 200         271           320                544         694           626
41586      54            64,892             3L17        41,212        45,133             10412       14.676        17_014              15.755      22 012       24_966
Ilsaged Fund                                                    12.201      13,789       1_5506               9 44        7,368        7_564              3_005        3,201         3,250              4,232       4.314         4,087
LIABILITIIOS AND FUNDS EMPLOYED
Desand deposita                                           10,345      16,522       19,296               3,935      6,239         6,541               1,311       2,109         2,536              1,432       2,292         2,704
Savinge and abort-tern dspocits up to ane year             7,628      10.527        9,935               4,925      6,409         8,777                 587         775           941                914       1,365         1,320
Savinga and long-tenr depoSIt. ner one year                4.955      6,880          7,098              5,415      6,880         4,473               1,193       1,771         2,275                979       1,302           843 __
Borrosinge fran Federal, Republic and Incal
authority.                                               9,647      13,139       14,520              8,387      10,661      ) 19,899               3,024      4,189         4,659               8,59       12,668         34,6i4
Sorruwlogs fron bsnk.                                      4,622       8,189         9,096              4,952       6,836          '                  ,280       4,635         5,319              2,073       2,861         3,634
Accrued i.terest and other liabilities                       907         789        _I984                 549         528        1_868                 304         280           307                803         427           756
2/                                            38,104      56,046        61,929             28,163      37,553       41,468               9,699      13,759        16,037             14,800      20,715        23,477    -,
Fund. ecaployed -4
Feemletil funde                                            1,995       1,479         1,040              1,961       1,991        2,023                 362         419           449                521         682           693
Reserve fund                                                 686         913           910                687         790           826                207         273           303                156         239           3484
Business food                                                673       1,013             3                59          789           816                125         197           225                258          28       ) _
Fund, of the MeA  a. working coess.ofnty                     128         19                                75)         89     3 __                      19         .28      )___50                           ..3
3,482      3_596         2,963              3.308        3,659         ,66                  713     ___17             977                955       1,297         1,4839
41,586     59_642        64s892             21 t471    _41,22         45,133             10_41-2     1_4,67 6       17,014             15,755      22 012        24.%N6
llanaged 8und                                                  12,201      13,789        15506               9,449        "39          7,564               3.05       3_201         3,250               4,212       4 114         4.je7
Guaranteea outstanding                                         42,923      61,960         na.               10,225      19,201         na                 3,449       8,799         n.e.5,081                       6,509       . n c
/ These balance sheet, have been prepared by S11 following, to the eat.nt possible, accounting practices of Western countries which
differ fr-u enceal accounting practices in Yugoslavia.  frovicinal figuren as of Juno 30, 1977, were prepared by the banka
and did sot conply with SDK forcat i0 smne reepectel especially It Is to be noted that "ohort-te-  loane O  to one year and currant
.Aturitl*s of lnsg.tew loansa   included am. twe-yesr loans and  xe.luded current  etotritiso.
2/ Under the new Federal Banking Law which will bec e applicable on January 15, 1978, the folving charge will take place with repFect
to equity Foundera' fund. Would serve an reserves for doubtful debta under the new na.me of Fends *( Joint Liability, M.d
Reserve Fund will becoue reserves for maintalning banks' liquidity; 8usine* FuPnd and Fundo of the Bank'e Working Conounity .o.Id
be called Fund of FIxed Assets, vhich is used for acquisition of the Bank's yr5{e.a and other fi.ed assets needed for their operations.
EPINAI/DF
Decuesber 1977



-38-                    ANNEX 3
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS III & IV
Projected Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds:  1978 - 1982
(in Millions of Dinars)
Total for 1978 - 1982
Sources                                   PBS        SBS       IBT        KBP
Net increase in short-term resources                       35,448    29,622      3,520    13,828
Net increase in long-term deposits                         23,349    15,378        116      4,548
Collection of long-term loans                              15,310    12,515      2,810    13,942
Borrowings from Federal and Republic Funds                 27,300    21,142      8,182    26,699
Other domestic or foreign identified borrowings             1,785      1,400     3,500      4,040
IBRD loans                                                  1,680        581       500      1,712
Unidentified sources                                        2,085      9,286     2,110      9,800
Total                                                     106,957    89,924    20,738    74,569
Applications
Net increase in short-term assets                          29,660    23,959      3,586    22,915
Long-term loan disbursements                               68,100    59,969    14,784    42,599
Repayment of long-term borrowings                           9,197      5,996     2,368      9,055
Total                                                     106,957    89,924    20,738    74,569
Assumptions for the Financial Projections (Annexes 3 - 5):
1. Financial projections (Annexes 3 - 5) have been prepared on the basis of operational
projections (Table 9, para 3.35).
2. Projections are in current prices and it is assumed that the prices will increase at
an annual rate of 8 - 10% p.a.
3. It is assumed that PBS, SBS and IBT will receive the Federal and Republic Funds in
the same proportion (40 - 55%) to total long-term resource requirements as in the past. KBP
expects these funds to represent about 50% of total long-term resources requirements,
a smaller proportion than before (79%).
4. Projected income statements have been prepared to produce no additional net income
than what is required for the mandatory services.



YUJGOSIAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS Ill & IV
Projected lncome Statemento: 1977 - 82
(in .illion. of ..oat.)
PBS                                                                     DSB
1977        1978      1979     1980      1981      1982                1977         1978      1979      1980     1981      1982
INCOME                                                                      (8etiate)                                                               (Estimate)
Interant                                                                  3,429       3,770    4,155    4,620    4,850    5,080                   3,017       3,577    4,254    5,025    5,922    6,990
Fe.& and nnienion chargen                                                   176         200      220       250       275      300                    74          89       107      128       153       191
Other income                                                                135         150      155       160       175      190                   133         166      208       260       325      405
Groan Inctme                                                         3.740       4,120    4.530    5.030    5.300    5570                    3.224       3.832    4.569    5.413    6.400    7
EXPENSES
Financial enpennee                                                        2,537       2,779    3,058    3,375    3,440    3,515                   2,204       2,642    3,185    3,806    4,526    5,385
Admi.nitrative and other onpenses                                           715         790      885    1,005    1,150    1,270                     443         554       693      866    1,083    1,354
Statutory obligation.  (tae..)                                              138         151      167       185       200      220                    55          70        81       93       106       122
Total empensen                                                       3.390       3.720    4,110    4 565    4,790    5,005                   2.702       3 266    3 959    4.705    5.715    6.861
NET INCOME                                                                        350        400       420      465       510       565                  522         566       610       648      685       725
ApPmprnitfonn 1'
Fosnder. fund and fund of the bank's working co,annity                      172         190       200      215       235       250                  371         386       410      428       445       465
Reserve fund                                                                 178        210       220      250       275       315                  151         180       200      220       240       260
-We        400       420      465       510       565                  522         566       610       648      685       725
IRT                                                                     lip
1977        1978      1979      1980     1981      1982                  7           1978     1979      1980      1981     1962
INCOtE                                                                       (Estimte)                                                              (Estitate)
Intereat                                                                    976       1,090    1,220    1,365    1,530    1,680                   1,310       1,709    2,204    2,776    3,449    4,100
Faes *nd coatilsnion charges                                                 20          20        29       30        35        40                   42          38        33        30       28        25
Other inonme                                                                  70         60        65        70       75        80                   87           95      103       110       117      120
Groas  Inctme                                                        1,046       1,170    1 310    1,465    1,640    1,800                   1.439       1.842    2.340    2.916    3.594    4.245
EXPENSES
Financial enpensee                                                          809         905    1,003    1,115    1,250    1,300                   1,019       1,329    1,714    2,159    2,683    3,100
Administrativn and other e"panses                                            104        115       137       160      180       200                    98         108      119       131       144       165
Statutory obligation. (taese)                                                 33         40        50        60       70        75                     6           7        8         9        10        12
Total expen-aa                                                         946       1,060    1,190    1,335    1,500    1,655                   1,123       1,444    1,841    2,299    2,837    3,277
NET INCOM E                                                                       1OO         110      120       130       140      245                   316         398       499      617       757       968
Anprfrattion: I
Founders fund and fund of the bank's wrking ca.-unity                         30         35        40        45       50        60                   158         213      258       332       431       550
Reserve fund                                                                  70          75       80        85       90        85                   158         185      241       285       326       418
100        110       120       130      140       145                   316         398      499       617       757       968
1/ Sen footnote 1 of Annex I and footnote 2 of Annen 2.
EMEMA/IDF
December 1977



YU(COSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS III & IV
Fro.ected elance Sheets: 1977 - 82
(in Milliona of Dfnrhe)
PBS                                                                           885
Dec. 31     Dec. 31    Dec. 31    Dec. 31    leo. 31       le -31             Dec' 31 Dec. 31    Dec. 31 Dec. 31    De.. 31    Dec. 31
1977        1978        1979        1980       1981        1982              1977         1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
ASSETS                                                 (Estimate)                                                                    (Estite)
Short-trem  loans and depositt                     28,762        33,892      39,387      45,292     51,602      58,422           18,851        22,071      25,935      30,571     *36,134      42.810
Loog-term  loans                                   40,219        48,499      58,149      68,749     80,349      93,019           30,668         37,721     45,824      55,130      65,819      78,092
Liquid f.nda end other as.eta                        3.937        4,522       4 654       4.218       5_138      4,928             1,575         1,231      1.737       2.297       2;912       3.592
Total A..eto                                  72,918        86.913    102,190    118.259    137.089    156,369              51.094        61.023      73.496      87.998    104.865    124.494
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Short-tem  borrowinge and deposits                 33,118        39,616      46,510      53,552     60,876      68,566           20,007        23,987      28,763      34,495      41.375      49.029
Loog-ter- deposits                                   8,729        11,582     15,592      20,18i      25,868     32,078            8,623         10,868      13,472     16,492      19,Y96      24,061
LonE-tore borrowings                                25,731       29.780      34,021      38,398     43,299      48,889            17,828       21.521      25,718      30.503      35,953      42,168
Other liabllities                                   1 586          1.781      1,493       1,087       1,497         722            1.739         1.240       1.570       1.925      2 310       3.320
69.164       82,759      97.616    113.220    131,540    150,255             48.197        57.616      69.523      83.415      99,634    118.378
Rquity,
Feenudrer'fmad, htb.iexs toed sod funds                                                                                                  I/
of the bank as working c-anity                    2,663         2,853       3,053       3,268       3,503      2,753            2,070         2,421       2,807       3,217       3,645       4,085
Reserve Fund                                         1,091         1,301      1,521       1.771       2,046      2,361               827           986       1.166       1.366       .586       1.831
3.754        4.154       4,574       5.039       5.549      6.114            2,897         3,407       3.973       4,583       5,231       5.916
Total Liabilities and Equity                  72,918        86.913    102,190    118.259    137.089    156,369              51.094        61.023      73.496      87.998      104.6      124494
SOT                                                                           REB 
Den. 31     Dec. 31    Dec. 31    De.. 31    leo. 31        ec. 31            Dec. 31      De.. 31    Dec. 31    Dec. 31    Dec. 31    Dec. 31
1977        1978        1979        1980       1981        1982               1977        1978        1979        1980        1981       t182
AST8                                                   (tatimate)                                                                    (EstImate)
Shoot-trom loans and deposits                        4,786         5.336      5,946       6,646       7,426      8,306             9,079        12,009      15,644     19,993      25,393      31,173
Long-tem losesi                                     13.866        17,057     19,521      22,160      23,930     25,850            24,077        28,446     33.751      39,502      45,882      51 739
Liquid feeds and ether assets                          578           768      1,616       1.896       1,728       1.983              801           770         720         691        672         648
Total Assets                                  19230         2            7,083      30.702     33,084      36,139           33,957        41.225      50.115      60.186      71,727      84.560
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Shoet-term  borrowings end depesits                  3,132         3,682      4,292       4,992       5,772      6,652             5,385         7,263       9,413      12,124     15,134      19,213
Leng-tam  deposits                                   1,788         1,807       1,827      1,849       1,874       1,904            1,577         1,975       2,526       3,326      4,526       6,126
Long-teom bortuwings                                13,060        16,291     19,453      22,072      23,922      25,922           19,969        25,173      31,413      38,002     45,333      533945
Other liabilitiee                                      234           255         365        413        -           -               5,441         4832        4,282       3.635      2.858          992
18.214       22.035      25.837      29,326      31,568     34,478            32,372        39,243     47.634       57.087     67,371      79.676,
Equf ty:
Founde.r' fend, bheIness fend and fonds
of the bank as working cosnenity                     674           709        749         794         844         904            1,079         1,291       1,549       1,881      2,312       2,862
Reserv- Fend                                           342           417         497        582         672         757              506           691         932       1,218       1,544      2.022
1@016         1,126      1,246       1.376       1,516      1,661             1,585       1_982         2,481       3.099       3,856      4,884
Total Liabilities and Equity                  19,230        23,161      27.083      30_702     33.084      36,139           33.957                    50,115      60,186      71.727      84,S60
Iil.
12j The e pected decrese from  the previvne year if  doe to the withdrawal of Fo-ndce.' funds pertaining
to the local goverenat.
ENIIERIDF
aeamber 1977



ANNEX 6
-41 -
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS III & IV
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
of the IBRD Loans
(in US$ million)
------------During Quarter-----------
Loans to:                For the four loans:
Calendar
Year      Quarter    IBT    PBS    SBS    KBP          Total    Cumulative
1979         1        0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5           2.0         2.0
2       0.5    0.5    0.5    1.0            2.5        4.5
3       1.0    1.0    1.0    2.0            5.0        9.5
4       1.0    1.0    1.0    2.5            5.5       15.0
1980         1        1.5    1.0    1.5    3.5           7.5        22.5
2       2.0    1.5    2.0    4.5          10.0        32.5
3       2.5    2.0    2.5    5.5          12.5        45.0
4       3.0    2.5    3.0    6.0           14.5       59.5
1981         1        2.5    3.0    3.0    5.0          13.5        73.0
2       2.0    2.5    2.5    4.0           11.0       84.0
3       1.5    2.0    1.0    2.5            7.0       91.0
4       1.0    1.5    0.5    1.5            4.5       95.5
1982         1        0.5    0.5    0.5    1.0           2.5        98.0
2       0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5            2.0      100.0



- 42 -                      ANNEX 7
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN
THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Economic Tables
Table 1. Annual Growth Rates of Industrial Production in Yugoslavia
Selected Periods from 1952 to 1975
Table 2.  Sectoral Structure of GMP by Region, 1975
Table 3.  Regional Investment Characteristics, 1975
Table 4.  Labor Force Composition by Region, 1971
Table 5.  Economic Indicators by Region, 1976 and 1977
Table 6.  Main Indicators of the 1971-75 Five Year Plan
Table 7.  Industrial Concentration by Region, 1974-75
Table 8.  Growth Rates of Industrial Branches (Actual 1971-75;
Target 1976-80) for Yugoslavia and LDRs
Table 9.  Yugoslavia - Social Plan for 1976-80
Principal Growth Targets
Table 10. Yugoslavia - Investment in Fixed Assets (Actual 1971-75;
Planned 1976-80) by Industrial Sub-Sectors
Table 11. Yugoslavia - Growth of Industrial Output (Actual 1966-70
and 1971-75 and Planned 1976-80) and Change in Industrial
Structure (1970, 1975 and 1980) by Sub-Sectors and Branches
2.   Tables Relating to the Banks
Table 1. Borrowing and Lending Rates
Table 2. Summary of the Banks' Operations:
1975-June 30, 1977
Table 3. Classification of the Banks' Long-Term Loans:
1975-June 30, 1977
Table 4.  Financial Ratios
Table 5.  Forecast of the Banks' Long-Term Loans: 1978-82
Table 6.  List of Projects Under Consideration
Table 7.  Basic Data
EMENA/IDF
December 1977



