PA m, 6    g  op  yDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2235a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                       =                     Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                 =                    Din. 18.00
Din. 1                               =                    US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                           =                    US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                                            US$55,555.55
*The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973,
as of December 31, 1977, the rate was Din. 18.4452=$l.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
PBS        -            Privredna Banka Sarajev,o
SBS        -            Stopanska Banka Skopje
IBT        -            Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP        -            Kosovska Banka Pristina
BOAL       -            Basic Organization of Associated Labor
DFC        -            Development Finance Company
DRs        -            Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
ERR        -            Economic Rate of Return
FRR        -            Financial Rate of Return
GMP        -            Gross Material Product
Xosovo      -           Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
LDRs       -            Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
SDK       -            Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or
Social Accounting Service



FOR OmXIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA: THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
- Summary of Loan and Project
Borrower:            Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:              US$40 million equivalent in various currencies.
Beneficiary:         Small- and medium-sized industrial enterprises in
Kosovo.,
Terms:               The loan would bear interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
Repayment would be according to schedules reflecting the
composite amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed.
On-lending Terms:   Individual sub-loans would be repaid over a period not
exceediing 15 years from the date the Loan Agreements are
signed including grace periods of normally up to three
years, and in case of foreign co-financing up to five
years. KBP would on-lend the proceeds at 11 percent
per annum with the sub-borrowers carrying the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:        Of the $40 million loan, US$5.0 million equivalent would
be on-lent to help finance the foreign exchange cost of
imported equipment for investments in industrial sub-
projects with a labor-intensive orientation (defined as
projects creating employment at a maximum cost per job of
$23,000 equivalent); US$14.7 million equivalent would be
on-lent: for the samne purpose to small- and medium-size
industrial sub-projects (but without the specific labor-
intensive emphasis); US$$20.0 million equivalent would be
on-lent: for the same purpose to three "special" large
"projects" 1/ already tentatively identified which have
special developmental significance for Kosovo; and
US$300,000 equivalent would be used to help finance the
foreign exchange cost of technical assistance (mainly
foreign consultants) for KBP and its industrial clients,
all in the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, the poorest
region of Yugoslavia.
Sub-projects with total cost exceeding US$10 million
equivaLent will have to meet a cost per job criterion
(US$40,000 per job or less); in addition, while the
1/   While these projects are likely to be the largest financed under the
proposed loan, they are still smaller than typical projects that attract
direct Bank lending.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by frcipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may no otherwise be diecIo"d without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
appropriateness of international competitive bidding
(ICB) should be considered for all foreign procurement,
any individual contract to be financed in whole or in
part with Bank funds for imported goods that is expected
to exceed US$2.0 million equivalent will be a candidate
for procurement under ICB. If KBP and its sub-borrower
decide that ICB is not appropriate, this decision must
be justified satisfactorily to the Bank before the sub-
project will be considered as eligible for Bank financing.
Final Date for
Sub-project
Submissions:         June 30, 1981
Free Limit:          US$1.0 million for individual small- and medium-size
and labor-intensive sub-projects up to an aggregate
of 60 percent of that portion of the KBP Loan allocated
to normal individual small- and medium-size and labor-
intensive sub-projects, the large "projects" and tech-
nical assistance being excluded.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                     1979   1980   1981   1982
Calendar Year         -------US$ million-------
Annual                       6.0    19.5   13.0    1.5
Cumulative                   6.0    25.5   38.5   40.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report Number 1865a-YU, dated June 23, 1978
EMENA Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan, equivalent to US$40.0 million, to Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP),
with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help
finance the foreign exchange costs of investments in medium- and small-size
and labor-intensive industrial projects as well as technical assistance and
pre-selected larger projects especially responsive to the needs of Kosovo, the
country's poorest region. The loan would bear interest at 7.5 percent per
annum and would be repaid according to schedules reflecting the composite
amortization schedules of the subloans financed. Individual subloans will be
repaid over a period not exceeding 15 years from date of signing including
grace periods of normally up to three years and in case of foreign co-financing
(para 63, this Report), up to five years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976; its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development" (1615a-YU) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in
Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid growth accompanied by dynamic
structural and institutional changes. GDP grew in real terms (1972 prices)
at an average annual rate of about 7 percent and, given an average population
growth rate of one percent per year, real per capita income more than tripled.
1/   Part I of this report is identical to that in the Report and Recommen-
dation of the President for a Middle Neretva Hydro Power Project
(Report No. P-2242a-YU) dated April 19, 1978.



-2-
In 1976, per capita GNP was estimated at $1,680 (World Bank Atlas Methodology).
The activity of the social sector, especially industry, was the driving force
of the economy and the share of industry in GDP increased from about 23 per-
cent in 1955 to about 32 percent in 1976, and paved the way for the develop-
ment of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate which averaged 1 percent per year during
the last two decades, however, varies considerably among the regions ranging
from an average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and
Provinces (LDRs) to 0.7 percent for the developed ones (DRs). Structural
changes in the economy have permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force
from agriculture to industry and services. Despite this, by 1975, 39 percent
of the employed resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and
forestry, mostly on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted
for 24 percent, and other sectors for 37 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest identifiable unit of production which
produces a marketable output) in every sector and activity. Second, the
responsibility for most important social and policy decisions is shifted from
the Federation down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes.
And third, the management and financial responsibility for social activities
(health, education, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state
to Communities of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates
of both suppliers and users of the specific services). Responsibility for
certain economic activities affecting large segments of the society (like
communal services, power production, highways and water management) is pro-
gressively similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, enterprises and public
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has the lead-
ing role in economic and social development. It accounts for 85 percent of
GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5-person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricul-
tural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity. New legisla-
tion has also been enacted to promote private business through the pooling of
resources in joint ventures with social sector enterprises or among private
small-scale industrial, transport, trade or other entities. These measures
aim to encourage private sector productive investment and employment, by
circumventing the 5-employee limitation, and to absorb the returning migrant
workers and mobilize their savings.



- 3 -
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--is one of the most important develop-
ment issues facing the country. Four regions can be distinguished by stage of
development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high per capita income region
with incomes almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia
and Croatia and the Autonornous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income
regions, with incomes ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average.
However, even within these regions there are pockets of underdevelopment,
which basically coincide with private sector agriculture. The Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita incomes about
two-thirds of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated less developed regions. The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average per capita income of only 30
percent of the national average (about US$500.0 equivalent for 1976), is the
least developed region. Tlhese interregional disparities can be traced back
further to intra-regional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the per
capita income spread between communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1,
and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor rural communes within the LDRs
which largely determines the disparity between the regions. The rate of
economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only slightly below the average for
Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per year
versus 0.7 percent in the DRs) the income disparity had until recently tended
to widen. In order to reverse the trend and to accelerate economic growth and
social development in the LDRs, mechanisms were instituted for sizeable
transfers of financial resources, initially on a non-returnable basis. Since
1971, net credits on highly favorable terms (containing a grant element of
around 50 percent) were made available to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
for the Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions, equivalent to about
20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. These transfers
amounted to about US$430 mLillion equivalent in 1976 in addition to about
US$250 million equivalent being transferred as budgetary grants for social
services. The mechanism f'or both categories assures a growth of transfers in
line with the growth in GDP.
8.        The rate of open unemployment to the total resident labor force
amounts to about 5 percent but understates the magnitude of the employment
generation problem because! of the existence of large reserves of rural under-
employed and the need to employ returning migrant workers. The rate of regis-
tered 1/ unemployment to social sector employment averaging about 11.9 percent
for the country as a whole in 1976 is perhaps a better measure.  A rapid
growth of the social sector which provides more productive employment is,
therefore, imperative if the natural increase of the labor force, in addition
to the returning migrants,, is to be absorbed and the ranks of the unemployed
1/   In Yugoslavia, unemp'loyment is measured in terms of registered job
seekers actually unemployed as well as those employed but seeking new
jobs.



- 4 -
reduced. This problem takes on added urgency as the incidence of unemploy-
ment 1/ is highly regionalized ranging from 25.4 percent at one extreme in
Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, fol-
lowing the rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent in the previous year. This was
due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnat-
ing exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and leveling consump-
tion; economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth
stimulus during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974
and extended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year;
the rate of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent
for 1974 to 22 percent in 1975, and the index of real personal receipts stag-
nated for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favorable
impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely affected
by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil producing coun-
tries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to expand rapidly
in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp decline in exports
to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity exports declined
by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and receipts from tourism
increased marginally. However, a larger contraction of imports and an
improvement in the terms of trade led to some decline in the current account
deficit to $1.0 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
10.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. As compared to a nominal increase of 22 percent in 1975,
GDP grew by 14 percent in nominal and 4 percent in real terms in 1976. Fol-
lowing a near stagnation of industrial production (and economic activity in
general) in the first half of the year--as a result of the implementation
of new legislation enforcing greater financial discipline on enterprises--
industrial growth picked up in the second half of the year and recorded a rise
of about 4 percent. The combination of the economic slack and price policy
resulted in a cutback in the rise of producer prices and the cost of living to
less than 10 percent, i.e. less than half the previous year's increases.
Favorable results were also realized in the field of foreign trade. The
marked deceleration of inflation, the slackening of domestic demand and the
revival of Western European demand, as well as foreign trade policy, resulted
in a 20 percent growth of merchandise exports and about 4 percent decline of
imports in nominal terms. The reduced balance of trade deficit was also
aided by the inflow on account of invisibles, resulting in a $150 million
balance of payments surplus for the year. Foreign exchange reserves also
reached a record of over $2.0 billion. Social sector employment grew by
3.7 percent and allowed the absorption of some returning migrant workers yet,
with the realized GDP growth rate, this meant a virtual stagnation of average
workers' productivity for the year.
1/   Ratio of registered unemployment to social sector employment.



- 5 -
Estimates for 1977 and Prospects for 1978
11.       Although initial projections for 1977 envisaged a moderate GDP growth
rate of about 5.5 percent and a balance of payments deficit of some $500 mil-
lion, estimates for the year indicate both a higher economic growth rate and
balance of payments deficit than expected. The pick-up of economic activity
which started in the second half of 1976 continued into 1977 with industrial
production growing at a rate of about 10 percent in the first half of the year.
The large monetary expansion in 1976 also enabled the expansion of investment
and other components of domestic demand and resulted in a somewhat higher
inflation rate than anticipated (cost of living rise of 13-15 percent). For
the year as a whole, GDP is estimated to have risen by almost 7 percent with
industry growing by 8 percent and agriculture by 4 percent. Employment is
estimated to have grown by about 3.5 percent and average workers' productivity
at an almost equal rate. The most significant deviation, however, occurred in
the foreign trade sector. As a result of the slow growth of exports and the
fast growing imports connected with expanding industrial production, which was
not compensated for by the growth of invisibles including workers' remittances,
the balance of payments deficit for 1977 is expected to amount to $1.3 billion
matching that for 1974.  The country was able to contract the necessary for-
eign financing in 1977, however, maintaining its external reserves at about
the previous year's level. The program for 1978 envisages the stabilization
of the economic growth rate of 6-7 percent, a reduction of the inflation rate
and a major consolidation of the foreign trade sector to improve the balance
of payments position.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as high
international inflation and balance of payments pressures, led to a reappraisal
of development objectives. More emphasis was to be given to the development
of Yugoslavia's own natural resources, with the development of the energy
sector as the highest priority. The focus is on electric power, where the
generating capacity is falling critically short of the rapidly rising power
requirements of the expan,ding economy. The development of the power sector
will be based primarily on the largely unutilized hydropower potential and
soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority activities are ferrous
metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead, zinc,
copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production
equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food
processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and
basic construction material.
13.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the



- 6 -
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have to play a crucial
role.
14.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For GDP growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is
proposed, compared with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and a realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average
planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual increments
exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing margins. This
would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduc-
tion of the number of temporary migrants abroad (estimated at about 900,000 in
1975), and an increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social
sector, which is likely to have significant impact only in the DRs. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material
and semi-finished products on the import side, and an increased share for
agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers'
remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism
receipts and construction work abroad are expected to compensate for the
expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
15.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the mechanisms for the transfer of
financial resources to the LDRs in the form of loans at concessionary terms
for economic investment and of budgetary grants for social development will be
continued, with some marginal increase in contributions as a proportion of
GDP. Since most of the natural resources of the country, including hydro-
power, are to be found in the LDRs, these regions will also benefit from the
increased emphasis on the development of power and basic industries which will
be financed jointly through direct financial contributions from the consuming
regions.
16.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies of the socio-political communities (Govern-
ments at the Communal, Republican and Provincial, and Federal levels). Sub-
sequently, the planning process starts at the bottom with individual enter-
prises and Communities of Interest setting out expectations and targets. The
planning process then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping
stages of horizontal adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily
at eliminating gross duplications), vertical adjustments between closely inter-
dependent sectors and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of
magnitudes of production, conceptually within an input/output framework), and
regional adjustments between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal
and vertical consolidation). The socio-political communities participate in



-7-
this process by ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and con-
straints, and by resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct
participants. The evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their
totality constitute the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the
form of "Social Compacts" 1/ or "Self-Management Agreements" 2/ which are
legally binding for the whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of
major deviations occurring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan
differs from the previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments
for implementation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
17.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Community, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sourceis of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is estimated to have risen in 1976 (around 18 percent), but it is
expected to level at about 17 percent in 1977 and subsequent years.  Taking
into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the
past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective
growth of production and structural improvement of the balance of trade,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 3/
18.       The Bank has made 47 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,808
million. Of this amount, approximately 47 percent (US$856.4 million) has been
for 17 loans for the transportation sector--9 for highways, 5 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
1/   "Social Compacts" regulate broader economic issues or policies and are
concluded among Socio-Political Communities and also involving Economic
Chambers and Associations of Enterprises and Trade Unions.
2/   "Self-Management Agreements" are more specific and regulate most rela-
tions, rights and obligations within, among and between economic organ-
izations like BOALs, enterprises and banks.
3/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for a
Middle Neretva Hydro Power Project (Report No. P-2242a-YU) of April 19,
1978.



- 8 -
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans. Five loans
totalling US$206 million (about 11 percent of the total amount lent to
Yugoslavia) have been made for agriculture and agro-industries. Ten loans
amounting to US$200 million (about 11 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry and two for tourism amounting to US$30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in eleven Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$155 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of April 30, 1978 and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(a) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(b) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(c) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(d) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(e) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the less developed
regions (LDRs), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural
sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has



- 9 -
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition cif the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending,
as noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as the
proposed third industrial credit project (which is submitted concurrently with
a proposed fourth industrial credit project designed to benefit three of the
other LDRs), as well as operations envisaged for LDRs over the next two years,
including loans for irrigation, water supply and sewerage and multipurpose
water resource and agricuLural development, emphasize our continuing orien-
tation to the needs of the LDRs. Recently approved loans for a Ninth Highway
Project, a Fifth Railway Project and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power Project as
well as the Second Power Transmission Project approved in 1977, will both
assist the LDRs and promolte structural reforms in the transport and energy
sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities
to encourage joint ventur,es which would provide technical, management and
marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities. The loans for the Ibar Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in
Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries Projects (Loan Nos. 894-YU and
1371-YU) in Macedonia, and the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loan Nos. 1129-YU and 1477-YU, respectively), have given special attention
to the needs of the individual farmer sector.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems



- 10 -
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for irrigation and rural develop-
ment will support agriculture development in general and in particular, the
individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in for-
mulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on fos-
tering coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where
significant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth
Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for
studies of road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we
believe essential for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy
framework for the transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project
(Loan No. 1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected
transmission system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU),
will considerably extend the supply of power throughout the country and
thereby encourage power exchange coordination among all republics/provinces.
The promise of further progress in the coming years is reassuring and addi-
tional improvements in sector coordination and policy are foreseen in conjunc-
tion with upcoming projects.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the Yugoslavs
are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western finan-
cial markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there
is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank, there-
fore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the foreseeable
future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not only consti-
tutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally important,
is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of inter-
national confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly



- 11 -
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debit to the Bank amounts to about one-fifth of its
total public debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from its current level to
about 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans
as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in 1976 and is projected
to increase to about 5 percent by 1980.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS 1/
A.   The Industrial Sector
The Role of Industry
29.       Industry has been the principal engine of Yugoslavia's impressive
economic growth since 1954; it has opened up the country to the world economy
and provided employment to the growing labor force. The industrial value
added growth rate of 9.4 percent per annum during 1956-75 exceeded the GMP 2/
growth rate of 7.2 percent per annum (in 1972 prices), resulting in an increase
in the share of industry in GMP from 23 percent in 1955 to 37 percent in 1976.
in the same period, industrial investment grew at a rate of about 7 percent in
real terms, accounting for around one-half of total social sector investment;
industrial exports, which grew at 10.3 percent per annum, accounted for about
90 percent of total commodity exports by 1975; industrial employment grew at
the rate of 5 percent per annum compared to the social sector employment
growth rate of 4 percent per annum. Industry now accounts for 39 percent of
total social sector employment. Gains in productivity were noteworthy during
the same time span, averaging 5 percent per annum. The performance of the
industrial sector in the 1971-75 Plan period was consistent with the past
record; the 8.1 percent per annum growth rate of industrial production equal-
led the Plan target.
Structure of Industry
30.       Generally, Yugoslavia's industrial enterprises are large.  Small-
scale industrial establishments (defined as those employing less than 200
1/   Part III of this Report is identical to Part III of the Report and
Recommendation of the President for a Fourth Industrial Credit Project
(Report No. P-2360-YU) dated June 26, 1978 which is being circulated
concurrently to the Executive Directors.
2/   Gross Material Product or Social Product excludes "non-productive" (in
Yugoslav terminology) services such as education, health, administra-
tion, defense and other public services. GDP is approximately 14 percent
higher than GMP.



- 12 -
workers and having fixed assets of less than 30 million Dinars or $1.7 million
equivalent) constituted only 18 percent of the total industrial establishment
and accounted for only 2.3 percent of total industrial fixed assets and 3.1
percent of total industrial employment in 1974. The preponderance of large
establishments is the result of the past industrialization policy: the
emphasis placed on energy production and exploitation of existing natural
resources and the attempt to build up processing facilities based on newly
exploited natural resources. In 1974 basic industries, namely energy (elec-
tricity, coal and petroleum), ferrous and non-ferrous metals, chemicals
and pulp and paper, accounted for 53 percent of industrial fixed assets but
only 34 percent of industrial value added and 20 percent of industrial employ-
ment. In contrast, other industries, such as non-metallic minerals, metal
products, shipbuilding, electrical products, building materials, wood products,
textiles, leather and footwear, rubber products, food products, and printing
and publishing, accounted for only 47 percent of industrial fixed assets but
66 percent of industrial value added and 80 percent of industrial employment.
This reveals not only the domination of basic industries in the industrial
structure, but also their relatively higher capital-output and capital-labor
ratios.
31.       The Less Developed Regions (LDRs).  Over the past 20 years, the
share of industry in GMP in the four LDRs grew faster than in the other
regions. Though the LDRs started with a considerably lower share of industry
in GMP after the Second World War, by 1975 the share was 37.3 percent in the
LDRs compared to 36.8 percent in the developed regions (DRs). Bosnia-
Herzegovina had the highest share of the four LDRs, with almost 40 percent,
and Montenegro the lowest with 31.2 percent in 1975. The LDRs, more than the
rest of Yugoslavia, have considerable wealth of natural resources in mining
and energy. Basic industry (including mining) was, therefore, given top
priority. This strategy was aimed at providing power, minerals and raw
materials for processing industries in Yugoslavia, mainly located in DRs, and
for export. Moreover, compared with the requirements of promoting light
industries, basic industries were expected to economize on scarce management,
technical and marketing expertise. Mining and production of basic metals now
play an important role in the four LDRs. Approximately half of Yugoslavia's
total steel capacity is located in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia.
Considerable deposits of bauxite have enabled a rapid expansion of the aluminum
industry, centered in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro, which produces
aluminum for domestic use and significant quantities of alumina for export.
Yugoslavia's main lead and zinc resources are mined, refined and smelted in
Kosovo and Macedonia. In 1974, the share of basic industries in total indus-
trial fixed assets in the LDRs was 61 percent, in industrial value added, 45
percent, and in industrial employment, 29 percent, compared to the respective
shares of 52 percent, 28 percent and 17 percent in the DRs. Because of the
dominance of basic industries in the four LDRs, the industrial pattern in
these regions is more capital-intensive than in the DRs. The share of pro-
cessing or fabricating industries like metal products and textiles, which are
more labor-intensive, is substantially below the Yugoslav average.



- 13 -
Industrial Objectives and Policy
32.       Industry will continue to be the prime mover of economic growth in
Yugoslavia as a whole and in the four LDRs. The 1976-80 Federal Plan projects
the industrial growth rate at 8 percent per annum, compared to the projected
GMP growth rate of 7 percent, and allocates 56 percent of social sector fixed
investment to industry. The 1976-80 Federal and Regional Plans designate
energy and other basic industries as priority sectors. The share of basic
industries in total industrial fixed investment in Yugoslavia will rise to 63
percent in this period. The share of basic industries in the LDRs is pro-
jected to be almost similar. The choice of the priority sectors was necessi-
tated by the need to remove "structural imbalances" in the Yugoslav economy
(also referred to in para 12 above). The dependence of the economy on imports
of raw materials and equipment was considered excessive and certain domestic
growth constraints, particularly in energy, agriculture and transportation,
considered serious. The Yugoslav strategy, therefore, has tended to aim at a
balanced development of the economy through encouraging the growth of those
sectors and branches that have tended to lag behind in the period after the
1965 reforms and concomitantly to achieve a significant import substitution in
priority sectors (mainly producing intermediate goods).
33.       While the choice of the priority sectors is understandable, the
impact of this strategy on employment generation would be limited. Since the
average capital-labor ratio in priority sectors is more than twice as high as
the industrial average, the plan resource allocation pattern implies a rela-
tively high investment-per-job created and, by implication, limited additional
employment opportunities. Recognizing the limited impact of the priority
sectors on employment generation, the Plan strategy recognizes the need for
emphasis on labor-intensive and small-scale industries. Social Compacts
(defined in footnote 1, page 7, this Report) on small-scale industries, which
specify promotional measures such as tax incentives and preferential credit
facilities, have been adopted. Social Compacts on employment in the social
sector have also been cconcluded within and between the regions. Communities
of Interest (defined in para 5, this Report) for employment, consisting of
representatives of job-seekers and employers, have been created to coordinate
inter- and intra-republic employment policy. In addition, policies have been
adopted to encourage private sector employment and include fiscal incentives
and the creation of a new legal concept, the Contractual Organization of
Associated Labor, which can be private or mixed private-social in terms of
ownership and circumvents the five-employee limitation that has applied to
privately owned businesEses. This form of enterprise may facilitate absorption
of returning migrants and the underemployed in the agricultural sector. The
extent of effectiveness of the new employment policies is, however, still to
be ascertained.
34.       The problems of unemployment (noted in para 8, this Report) and
inter-regional disparities in income (para 7) will persist in the near future.
The rate of unemployment in Yugoslavia reached 11.9 percent in 1976, the rate
in the LDRs being 17.6 percent and that in Kosovo 25.4 percent. The rapid
migration from the agricultural sector, the limited inter-regional migration,
and the return of migrarnt workers are important aspects of the employment



- 14 -
problem. The problem in the LDRs is accentuated by the much faster natural
increase in population (see para 4, this Report), particularly in Kosovo with
an annual population growth of 2.9 percent during 1971-76. Consequently, even
if the target growth rates of social sector employment in the LDRs during
1976-80 were realized, they would be barely sufficient to absorb the natural
increase in the labor force and returning migrants and to reduce registered
unemployment by 25 percent in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro;
while in Kosovo it would be barely sufficient to absorb the natural increase
and returning migrants. The need to lessen and overcome the problems of
unemployment and interregional disparities is therefore seen by the Yugoslav
authorities concerned as necessitating a policy of industrial development for
the LDRs that, in addition to diversifying the industrial structure by encour-
aging investment in medium- and small-scale processing industries, gives a
more vigorous emphasis to promoting labor-intensive projects.
35.       In Kosovo, the poorest region of Yugoslavia, the need is particularly
compelling to devote greater attention, through industrial credit activity, to
developing both processing facilities as an adjunct to the schemes for natural
resource exploitation and, given the Province's relative lack of trained
manpower, appropriately designed projects which are responsive to Kosovo's
need for ameliorating rural poverty and generating employment.
B.   The Financial Sector
36.       Multi-purpose banks are the dominant form of financial intermedia-
ries, carrying out all commercial and investment banking functions for all
sectors of the economy. Each region of Yugoslavia has such a major bank,
though these banks can also have branches in other regions. The four proposed
borrowers are in this category and handle some 80 percent of investment and
commercial banking in their respective regions. In addition to these banks,
the financial sector includes the National Banks, which essentially perform
the role of central banks at the Federal and Regional levels, post office
savings institutions, investment loan funds and insurance institutions.
37.       The investment loan funds of the banks in the LDRs consist primarily
of resources provided through the Federal Fund (see para 7, this Report) and
similar funds within the regions. These funds derive their resources from
obligatory loans levied on enterprise income and, according to agreed upon
criteria for allocation to the various LDRs, transfer their resources to the
respective multi-purpose banks.
38.       A new Banking Law became effective on January 15, 1977.  The main
emphasis is on the reorganization of banks so that their services and func-
tions are more closely integrated and directed to the financial needs of their
founders (which are their depositors and borrowers). Accordingly, the new Law
requires some changes in the organization and structure of the multi-purpose
banks, but have little if any practical effect on their ability to carry on
their operations.
39.       Given the current planning mechanism (see para 16, this Report),
interest rates in Yugoslavia are assigned a limited role in resource mobil-
ization and allocation. This reflects the Marxist theoretical premise that



- 15 -
capital is not a separate ifactor of production but "past labor". The need for
financial intermediation is accepted, however, along with interest rates.
Each bank's founders establish the bank's borrowing and lending rates each
year. As the banks are not profit oriented but service oriented, the spread
is kept as low as possible (about 2 percent is the usual target to cover
administrative expenses and mandatory provisions). The Yugoslav authorities
plan to undertake a comprehensive study on the role of interest rates in
Yugoslavia which is expected to be completed during the commitment period of
the proposed loan. The stuady is to be executed in conjunction with the Second
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1477 of July 29, 1977) and is expected to
be completed by the end of this year.
40.       Within the framework of the regional development plans and their
own plans, the multi-purpose banks, including the borrower under the proposed
loan, play a key role in allocating funds to sound projects. The demand on
these banks for financing has consistently exceeded the supply of resources
available to them, allowing them to be selective in deciding on projects they
will support. They have the authority (which they exercise), working in
cooperation with the regional Economic Chambers (which encompass associations
of workers in the different economic sectors), to approve, modify or reject
specific investment proposals.
41.       The multi-purpose banks mobilize domestic resources by attracting
deposits from households, enterprises and other organizations. Their foreign
resource mobilization efforts are directed at guaranteeing suppliers' credits
(the most important activity in terms of amounts involved), attracting depos-
its of Yugoslav workers abroad and obtaining foreign loans.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project, which is summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the "Staff
Appraisal Report on a Third and Fourth Industrial Credit Project" No. 1865a-YU
dated June 23, 1978 was appraised by a mission which visited Yugoslavia in
October 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington during March 7-14, 1978
inclusive. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Aleksander Ilic, Vice
President, Federal Committee for Industry and Energy, and included repre-
sentatives of KBP.
Background
43.       The proposed Third Project, with the concurrently proposed Fourth
Industrial Credit Project, is a sequel to the First and Second Industrial
Credit Projects (Loans Nos. 1012/1013 and 1277 of June 21, 1974 and June 14,
1976, respectively). These previous two loans had the dual objectives of (a)
financing small- and medium-size sub-projects in manufacturing and processing
industries, and (b) institution-building. Progress in achieving these objec-
tives is considered to be on the whole satisfactory. Three of the four
participating banks, Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT), Stopanska Banka



- 16 -
Skopje (SBS) and Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS), have committed their portions
of the earlier loans at a satisfactory rate. Commitments by Kosovska Banka
Pristina (KBP), the proposed borrower for this loan, have been considerably
slower, reflecting particular problems in Kosovo (see paras 57 and 58, this
Report). The first industrial credit line has been fully committed. While
under the second line of credit KBP has only committed about US$5.6 million
equivalent of its US$16.6 million portion, it has in hand appraised sub-
projects which are being translated and will be submitted to the Bank by end-
June 1978 and which would totally utilize the balance. Hence, by end-July,
1978, the second credit line should also be fully committed.
44.        The financial rate of return (FRR) estimated by the four partici-
pating banks for sub-projects above the free limit (see para 60, this Report)
financed under the first and second credit lines ranged from 15 percent to
over 45 percent, while the estimated economic rate of return (ERR) ranged from
12 percent to above 40 percent; the agreed minimum being 10 percent under the
First and 11 percent under the Second Industrial Credit Projects. The esti-
mated average total cost per job created by these projects was US$39,400 equiv-
alent in 1977 prices, which is a satisfactory average in view of the relatively
advanced stage of economic development of Yugoslavia. The second project was
also aimed at encouraging foreign co-financing by providing a higher limit for
a sub-project's total cost and a longer grace period for such co-financed sub-
projects, and the results to date are reassuring. Twelve PBS sub-projects have
attracted co-financing almost matching the amount provided to these sub-projects
by the Bank, and six SBS sub-projects have attracted co-financing equivalent to
about two-thirds of the amount of the Bank loan committed to these sub-projects.
In the case of IBT, two sub-projects have received co-financing almost equal
to the Bank's commitment of US$2.6 million equivalent. So far, one of KBP's
sub-projects has received co-financing slightly exceeding the Bank's commitment
of US$2.5 million equivalent. Such co-financing has been primarily in the
form of medium-term commercial credits. Institution building under the first
two projects has progressed satisfactorily. The quality of appraisal work has
improved and techniques, such as those used for financial and economic rates
of return calculations, are now widely employed in most project appraisals,
whether Bank-financed or not. The first industrial credit line is expected to
be fully disbursed by the end of 1978, at which time a project completion
report (PCR) will be prepared. Data are expected to be furnished to the Bank
for this purpose as well as for the preparation of a PCR on the Second Project.
The Borrower, in conjunction with the three banks under the proposed Fourth
Project (Fourth Industrial Credit Loan Agreements, Section 3.04(b)) has
undertaken to prepare PCRs on the proposed Third and Fourth Industrial Credit
Projects during the first quarter of 1984 (Third Industrial Credit Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.04(b)).
Objectives of the Proposed Loan
45.        The objectives of the proposed loan under the proposed Third Indus-
trial Credit Project encompass those of the previous two projects which, in
addition to providing foreign exchange resources to finance industrial develop-
ment, were to contribute to the economic development of the LDRs, including



- 17 -
Kosovo, and create employment opportunities and assist in further strengthening
the borrowing institutions. The proposed project, in addition to these
objectives, attempts to address more directly the problem of unemployment in
Kosovo. A portion of the proposed loan will be designated specifically for
labor-intensive sub-projects, defined as sub-projects providing employment at
a maximum cost per job of US$23,000 equivalent. This figure was arrived at
utilizing the same methodology applied within the Bank for devising thresholds
of urban poverty in member countries and takes into account 1979 prices which
will prevail at the time the proposed project is actually to be implemented.
It should be noted that this (along with the proposed Fourth Project) is the
first project in Yugoslavia to have a specific labor-intensive component and
thus should serve to heighten awareness of the need to, and desirability of,
providing jobs at as low al cost as possible.
The Borrowing Bank
46.       The borrowing bank under the proposed third project is Kosovska Banka
Pristina (KBP), one of the four banks (all multi-purpose) that participated in
the first and second projects. The basic legal framework for these multi-
purpose banks is the new Banking Law (see para 38, this Report). Like the
other multi-purpose banks, KBP has its own self-management agreement and
statutes; its operations from the viewpoint of overall credit and monetary
policy as well as its liquidity position are regulated by the National Bank
and supervised by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). Members of KBP, who
constitute its General Assembly, include organizations of associated labor
(from most of the enterprises in Kosovo served by KBP) and other social sector
organizations with the exception of governments. Every member has one vote in
the Assembly, the highest governing body of the bank. The Assembly approves
the medium-range plan, annual plan and business policy (including interest
rates), and these plans are harmonized with the plans of bank member organi-
zations as well as with the Provincial Plan and the National Plan.
47.       The Assembly appoints, for a four-year term, a General Manager who
is the chief executive. Appointments are made on the basis of professional
competence and changes are infrequent. The quality of senior management is
generally good. The number of KBP employees is about 600. The bank is
functionally divided into departments at the head office level and has eleven
branches.
48.       Policies and Procedures.  KBP does not have formal financial policies
per se concerning its operations such as exposure limits and maximum debt to
equity ratio. Nevertheless, it generally follows prudent practices. The
members of the bank agree on the distribution of loans among themselves and
any substantial allocation of funds to a particular project would have to be
in accordance with the plan (approved by the Assembly--see para 46, above).
KBP has qualified project appraisal and supervision staff, though some staff
shortages exist. While appraisal reports received from the bank are generally
good, further upgrading is desirable. The use of financial and economic rates



- 18 -
of return is becoming more widespread and is being applied to other than Bank
projects. Supervision work is satisfactory, as are disbursement and procure-
ment procedures.
49.        Financial Position.  KBP plans its operations on a disbursement
basis rather than on a commitment basis. As a result, it has substantial
overcommitments vis-a-vis available resources at any point in time which will
be covered by transfers from the Federal Fund and other sources. Its balance
sheet indicates a satisfactory liquidity position; its debt/equity ratio,
although seemingly high, is not to be conventionally interpreted since, in the
Yugoslav context, capital contributions are minimized, almost all being for
liquidity and operational funds. Most of the bank resources forming liabili-
ties come from the deposits of enterprises, household savings deposits and
from Federal and Regional Funds, the latter having the character of managed
funds with KBP acting essentially as a conduit for disbursing them in accor-
dance with the provisions of the regional plan and agreements undertaken by
Kosovo. In any case, the solvency of KBP, as for similar banks elsewhere,
is a function of the solvency of its members (each member assuming unlimited
liability for the bank's debts) and, ultimately, the economy as a whole. The
fact that the bank is not profit-oriented is reflected in its income state-
ments. KBP does, however, earn somewhat more than is necessary to break even,
the excess being either retained or returned to its founders.
50.        KBP's arrears position has improved over the two years from June
1975 to June 1977, reflecting the improved liquidity position of enterprises
and the intensified collection procedures followed by the bank. It has not
experienced significant write-offs in the past and reschedulings have been
few. However, because of the limited availability of data and the multi-
purpose nature of the bank, it is difficult to assess the quality of its
long-term loan portfolio.  In the framework of annual audits to be under-
taken by the Borrower (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02), KBP has assured the
Bank that it will carry out an annual portfolio analysis covering loan arrears
and reschedulings and, on the basis of this analysis, assess the risk and
magnitude of possible losses. This understanding is similar to the one
reached in connection with the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
1477-YU of July 29, 1977) and is identically reflected in the terms of the
proposed loans under the simultaneously proposed Fourth Industrial Credit
Project.
51.        KBP is now audited by the Social Accounting Service (SDK) fol-
lowing, to the extent possible, generally accepted international accounting
standards. While normal audits per Yugoslav standards are currently carried
out for KBP, it is expected that SDK will be able to execute audits on the
bank in accordance with acceptable international standards on the 1977 and
future accounts. This steady progress in extending audits is one tangible
result of a Bank supported training program for SDK which began in 1974.
52.        KBP is considered creditworthy for Bank lending, though a conven-
tional assessment of creditworthiness is neither fully possible nor entirely
appropriate in view of the unique Yugoslav economic system. This assessment
is based on the fact that (a) there have been no significant loan losses in
the past and the arrears situation is manageable; (b) management of resources



- 19 -
and appraisal and supervision of projects are sound; and (c) KBP is such an
integral part of its region's economy and the economy as a whole that failure
is exceedingly unlikely.
53.       Operations.  The main areas of operation of KBP are loans and
guarantees; equity investments are negligible. Long-term loan commitments
have increased over the past several years, reflecting the increase in invest-
ment activities in Kosovo. In 1976, loan commitments of KBP totalled $290.1
million equivalent, of which loans for industrial projects accounted for
two-thirds. Guarantees in favor of enterprises also have shown an increasing
trend, totalling $220.8 million equivalent in 1976.
54.       Forecast of Operations.  KBP's five-year forecast of operations
indicates that it expects long-term loan commitments to continue to expand.
Its long-term resource mobilization plans appear reasonable, with Federal
Funds expected to be the largest source. The projected financial statements
reflect the bank's efforts to maintain a spread only sufficient to cover costs
and mandatory provisions. The liquidity position, however, is forecast to be
satisfactory.
Features of the Proposed Loan
55.       Labor-Intensive Sub-Projects.  In accordance with the proposed proj-
ect's specific focus on dealing with unemployment in Kosovo, 12.5 percent
(US$5.0 million equivalent) of the funds under the proposed project would be
earmarked for labor-intensive sub-projects, defined in para 45 above. As the
main purpose of these sub-projects is to provide low-cost jobs, there would be
no limitations on the size of sub-projects or of sub-loans, or on the type of
sub-projects as there would be for "normal" projects (see para 56), provided
they satisfy the usual technical, financial and economic criteria.
56.       Diversification.  About 37 percent of the KBP Loan (US$14.7 million
equivalent) would continue to be used for financing "normal" small- and medium-
size sub-projects in manufacturing and processing, the same types as were
financed under the previous industrial credit lines, with limitations as set
out in para 59. This is aimed to promote diversification within the indus-
trial sector of Kosovo which tends to be heavily biased in favor of large,
capital-intensive basic industries.
57.       "Special" Projects.  One of the characteristics of projects in Kosovo
is that they tend to be large. This reflects the past pattern of industrial
development in the Province where the primary focus has been on exploiting
large mineral deposits and on the processing and utilization of such minerals;
this type of industry tends to consist of large enterprises. As a result, KBP
has experienced difficulty under the first two industrial credit projects in
identifying suitable sub-projects that did not exceed the normal maximum size
limitations imposed in the loan agreements, and this has led to delays in
committing the preceding loans. To help avoid a repetition of this situation
and in response to Government's request, a part of KBP's proposed loan (50
percent or US$20.0 million equivalent) would be allocated in advance for three
"special" projects already tentatively identified. These "projects" are larger



- 20 -
than the normal limits would ordinarily permit but otherwise meet all of the
usual criteria. It should be noted that while these three "projects" are
likely to be the largest financed under the proposed loan, they are still
smaller than typical projects that attract direct Bank lending. The first is
the modernization and expansion of a lead smelter and refining plant. Without
the project, the plant would have to close and over 1,000 jobs would be lost.
The second is the establishment of a heavy duty battery plant which is ex-
pected to export some 70 percent of its production. The third is a plant to
produce casing and plastic parts for the heavy duty battery plant. All three
are being prepared by the Trepca Kombinat and are expected to involve foreign
co-financing. The "projects" will include the installation of suitable anti-
pollution devices, especially needed at the lead smelter (at present there is
a high incidence of lead poisoning in the plant area). These "projects" will
use local raw material, will be located in underdeveloped communes in Kosovo
and will help to diversify the industrial sector. Each will be reviewed by
the Bank in a more intensive fashion than normal, including field missions.
Procurement procedures must meet the requirements discussed in para 64 of this
Report. If one or more of these "projects" proves to be unacceptable, it
could be replaced by others provided the substitute "projects" create or
retain jobs at a cost per job of no more than US$60,000 equivalent (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02(d)).
58.       In further recognition of the special difficulties faced in Kosovo
by enterprises and by KBP in identifying, preparing and then operating projects
in new fields (for example, diversifying from basic industries to processing
industries), a portion of KBP's proposed loan, as noted in para 66 below,
would be allocated to technical assistance. KBP has indicated four areas
where it and its clients could use such assistance: the first concerns
marketing advice regarding individual sub-sectors (such as textiles or wood
products) to help identify promising new project concepts; the second involves
assistance by foreign specialists in reviewing large projects prepared by
enterprises; the third relates to technical advice for projects already
in production but which are experiencing operational difficulties; and the
fourth concerns training abroad (in appropriate industries rather than in
academic institutions) for KBP staff or for the staff of a project already
in operation.
59.       Sub-project and Sub-Loan Size.  Under the Second Industrial Credit
Project, the total cost of sub-projects was limited to US$6.0 million equiva-
lent unless there was foreign-co-financing involved when a higher limit of
US$10.0 million equivalent applied. These limits on total sub-project cost
were imposed to help ensure that small- and medium-size sub-projects were
financed as they tend to be more labor-intensive than large sub-projects.
To allow, however, for the possibility that a larger sub-project may also be
relatively labor-intensive, it is now proposed to consider for financing under
the proposed project, sub-projects whose total cost exceeds US$10.0 million
equivalent if they create jobs at a total cost per job of US$40,000 equivalent
or less. This figure is two-thirds of the average fixed investment cost per
new job in the industrial sector in the LDRs in 1979 prices, based on the aver-
age for 1974-75 (US$60,500 equivalent).  It is less than the average cost per



- 21 -
job created by sub-projects above the free limit under the previous two proj-
ects, again adjusted for past and expected inflation (US$45,750 equivalent).
For that portion of the proposed loan allocated to "normal" sub-projects,
sub-loans would normally not exceed US$3.0 million equivalent (the limit under
the Second Industrial CredLit Project was US$2.5 million equivalent), ensuring
the financing of a reasonably large number of sub-projects (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, C, 6(b) and (c)).
60.       Free Limit.  In recognition of the improvements in KBP's project
appraisal work and because of the Bank's growing familiarity with and greater
confidence in this institution, the free limit on individual sub-loans (in-
cluding sub-loans to labor intensive sub-projects) would be raised from the
$500,000 established under the second industrial credit line to US$1.0 million.
The aggregate free limit would also be raised from about 40 percent to 60 per-
cent of that portion of KBP's loan allocated to "normal" and labor intensive
sub-projects (Loan Agreemient, Section 2.02(b)). This will allow the Bank to
review for approval about three or four sub-projects, a reasonable number,
plus the three "special" projects referred to in para 57 above.
61.       Terms of Sub-loans.  Individual sub-loans would be repaid over a
period not exceeding 15 years from the date of signing of the proposed loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 2.08). Grace periods would normally be up to three
years, with up to five years allowed when there is co-financing and the need
for such a longer grace period is demonstrated (para 63 below).
62.       As under the Second Industrial Credit Project (and as noted in
para 44, this Report), sub-projects would have to have a minimum FRR and
ERR of 11 percent. The on-lending rate to be charged by KBP on Bank funds
would be 11 percent with the sub-borrowers assuming the foreign exchange
risk (Loan Agreement, Schtedule 4, para C 6(f)). This rate approximates cur-
rent market costs of foreign borrowings to Yugoslav investors and is also
the same as applied under the Second Industrial Credit Project. In addition,
unless the Bank should otherwise agree, domestic resources lent to social
sector sub-projects receiving Bank funds will carry an interest rate of at
least 6 percent and to private sector sub-projects, at least 5 percent (Loan
Agreements, Section 3.07). This is the same condition introduced under the
Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1477), approved in July 1977,
and is a further step toward unifying lending rates on local funds country-
wide by introducing floor interest rates into the industrial sector.
63.       As under the Second Industrial Credit Project, co-financing will
continue to be encouraged in conjunction with the proposed project by allowing
longer grace periods (up to 5 years) on sub-loans when the sub-project is also
being financed from other foreign sources (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para C
6(f)). These other sources typically require repayment in five to six years
with a grace period of only one to two years; therefore a longer grace period
on Bank sub-loans will provide a more appropriate cash flow pattern for the
project by blending Bank funds with medium-term credits. The proposed loan
would be repaid according to amortization schedules based on the composite
of individual amortization schedules for sub-loans. These arrangements are
substantially the same as for the Second Industrial Credit Project.



- 22 -
64.       Procurement.   Some sub-projects may be received that are of such a
size and nature that international competitive bidding (ICB), using the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement, might be the most economical and efficient method
of procurement. While the detailed criteria identifying such sub-projects
cannot be established in advance, the total cost of an individual contract is
a reasonable proxy. Under the proposed project, therefore, while the appro-
priateness of ICB should be considered for all foreign procurement, any indi-
vidual contract for imported goods that is expected to exceed US$2.0 million
equivalent will be a candidate for procurement under ICB. If KBP and its
sub-borrower decide that ICB is not appropriate, this decision must be
justified to the Bank before the sub-project will be considered as eligible
for Bank financing; if they do follow ICB, and a Yugoslav supplier wins the
bid, the ex-factory cost of these goods would be eligible for financing with
Bank funds, a situation expected to arise only in rare instances. The Bank
will undertake a full review of all procurement documents and procedures
for contracts expected to exceed US$4.0 million equivalent that are procured
under ICB and will selectively review smaller contracts (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.03 and Schedule 4, C.6.(g)).
65.       Joint Unit and Sub-Units.  A joint Unit, consisting of four Sub-
Units, one each from KBP and PBS, SBS and IBT (the latter three participating
under the parallel proposed Fourth Industrial Credit Project), will handle
administrative matters involving all four banks. KBP's Sub-Unit will handle
those matters, including sub-loan requests, which affect it.
66.        Institution Building.  Assistance in institution building will be
provided through review of KBP's appraisal reports on the larger projects
submitted (including the "special" projects) as well as through periodic
visits and consultations. As stated in para 58 above, in view of KBP's
particularly acute needs in this area, a portion of the proposed loan would
be specifically allocated to technical assistance.
Justification and Risk
67.       The proposed loan is justifiable at the macro level on the grounds
that it will lead to the creation of highly needed job opportunities in Kosovo
while contributing to the overall development and improvement of the standard
of living of this, the poorest region of Yugoslavia. Based on the projects
identified by KBP at the time of appraisal as being eligible for financing
under the proposed loan, some 3,000 jobs would be created or retained. The
new emphasis on maximizing the number of jobs created per dollar invested is
expected to result in approximately 200 of these jobs being created or retained
at a cost of less than $23,000 equivalent each, the urban poverty program
threshold as adjusted to forecast 1979 costs (see para 45, this Report). The
proceeds of the proposed loan will not be used to finance projects in basic
industry, which are relatively capital intensive, but instead will promote
diversification of the industrial sector of Kosovo towards processing and
better integration into the overall Yugoslav industrial structure.



- 23 -
68.       At the micro level, the ERR of sub-projects to be financed from the
proposed loan is not known at this time, as is usual for DFC projects.  How-
ever, the estimated ERR of sub-projects financed under the past two industrial
credit projects has ranged from 12 to above 40 percent, on average well above
the minimum acceptable rate of 11 percent established in the second loan agree-
ment (10 percent in the first). Sub-projects financed under the proposed loan
are expected to yield similar results. One-third of the sub-projects identified
by KBP would involve foreign co-financing to cover part of the foreign exchange
costs.
69.       There are no special risks associated with the proposed loans.
PART V -' LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Kosovska Banka
Pristina, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia and the Bank; and the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special features of the loan are discussed in paragraphs 44, 55, 57,
58, 59, 62, 63, 64 and 65.
72.       I am satisfied ithat the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 26, 1978
Washington, D.C.






TABLE 3A                                             ANEX I
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page I of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 --Pa-e----- -4-pa
YUGOSLAVIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      255.8                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      144.2                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           ROMANIA        SPAIN          GERMANY FED.REP. OF***
---                                  ------- -    -  - ------- - --  ---
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                     380.0 *  830.0*  1680.0 */               550.0 /a  15BO.O*    4420.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            18.4       20.4      21.5 /a             20.3        33.6        61.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        72.0      80.0       84.0 /a             85.0        67.o       240.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        124.0     139.0      149.0 T             136.0       105.0       439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          2e.s      21.0       18.2                19.0        21.0        17.3
CRUDE DEATH r.-TE (/THOU,AV)          11.5        9.1       9.2                 8.9         9.B        11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         8E.0      55.5       40.5                49.4        27.9        23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        63.7      67.7       68.0                67.7        70.5        70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.4        1.3       1.3                 1.3         1.4         1.2
POPULPTION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1.2        t.o       0.9                 1.0         1.1         1.0
URBAN                                  6.0        4.6        ..                 3.4         2.0         4.1
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)           27.2       38.7      39.0 Lb             40.8        59.1        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        30.7      28.3       26.3                25.9        27.8        23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       63.2       64.3       65.4                65.5        62.5        63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      6.1        7.4       8.3                 8.6         9.7        13-2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6        0.6       0.5                 0.5         0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         ..       0.8 Ic              0.7 /b      1.1         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .          ..         ..                 .
USEk.  (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         .          ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          830D.0         ,,     9150.9d            9900.0    11900.0    28500.o
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          57.0         .         39  S             49.0        25.o         8.9
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)            7.0        5*-e 5                         *.1 la                 0.7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             16.4 /a   15.1         ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             41.5  a   41.4          ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLOS             6.9        6.6         ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.0      1.4          ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_ _ ------_----- _----__  -----_----
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS (I)        IS.1**    t .l**    15.1**                  ....                    .
% OWNED By SMALLEST 10% OWNERS(11)   H4.9**    84.9**    84.9**
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             14Q0.0 /b1010.0        850.0               680.0       740.0 Lb   58.o0
POPULATION PER NURAING PERSON        135      b l  410.0    450.0               200.0                   350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            2ol.o      170.      170.0               140.0 /C   220.0         90.o
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         115.0     124.0      137.0               118.0       107.0       121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               91.0      92.0       97.5                92.0        81.0        88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          27.0      29.0       35.4                28.0        40.0        56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              4.5        2.6        1.7                2.4         0.9         0.9
EDUCATI ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        98.0      94.0       96.OL&            113.0        123.0       129.o0a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      34.0      45.0       49.0 L             44.0         57.0        66.oTa
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0      12.0       12.0              12-13         11.0        1S.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     72.0       72.0       74.0 L&             58.0        20.0        48.o/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 77.0       85.0         ..                           94.0        99.
HOUSING
PERSONS Pt'. ROOM (URBAN)                1.7         ..        1.3/b              1.3 /d       ..         .7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                         ..         ..      61.5                88.0 /tde    ..          0.3/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 54.5         ..       89.2/a              49.0 Id       *-       100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CX)                    36.1         .        o. O.i/b           27.0 /d
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER-THOU Pop)          85.0     163.0      193.0               152.0       214.0       318.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0       35.0      72.0                  *-        71.0       220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           480.0    1288.0   1887.0                1815.0      1634.0      4128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.3        4.3       3.8                 2.6         5.8        17.7
SEE NOTES ANO DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEN I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwie noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 ond 190, and for Moat Recert Retinste between
1973 aed 1975.
tNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas nethodology (1974-76 bkaai).
*    .  Agrioulture land held by  -ocisi aector (Konbinate).
a   II. Africnlt-ce lond held by private anall-holdera "10 hectacee macisue".
esa  Selection of Federal Republic of Germany as an objective country is based on the clooc e-o--ic  tien .iotoai-ed by the two countries aa well
sa  en the fact that the greater part of Yogoslsvia   around  ee nillion w-orkers toupoesrily abroad ha-e foccd dnploymnot in the Federal
Republic of Germny.
YOGOSLAVIA                  1960    /a  1963;    /b  1962.
MOST RECENT ESTIiATE:    /a  1976;    /b  1971;    /c  Ratio of popolation under 15 and 65 ond over to totol l=bor forc;
/d  Including sboot 800 tho.eond vigr-nt workers working oetide;    I  1975,       cuo of
ML0'tivesdest lakor foeno           If  l9O7-74 a-e-ae;    1'.               7h  Inside only.
ROMANIA                     1970    /a  Not co-parable to these for other Ceetrolly Planned Econ-nia.   Derived by using the BRok etlas nethodology,
by adjantieg official Riciosan national accoonre doto -nd nonvertig then into US dollara at the effecti-e
enchange rate for foreign        e ade trhnstlo   wich opprooites Le  20 per US doar;    lb  Ratio  f.ppulmti
under 15 and 65 and ever to total labor force;          /.  Hospitals only,  -1cldoc soiuraad estereity house;
/d  1966;    /e  Inide only.
SpAo                        1970     / E Eploynent office estimate;    /b  Registered, aOt a11 practicig in the cotry.
GERMANY, FED. REP. OF    1970    Ia  Include the relevant data relating  to Berlin for vhith  -eparu--  dart  hove  -ot keen cupplied;    /b  Total, orban
-rorl;      c  Inside only.
R16, March 2, 1978
DEFINITIONS OP S0CiAL INDICATORS
L    urd Ar-- (thou k2)                                                                       opeulation so  or-eirg p.er.on - P'polaticn divided by cnkber of pr-cticing
Total - Total surface ares co,prising land aces and inland waters,                            mle and fenale g-duacetnursea, "trained" or "csrtified" n              -rsee, and
Agrmi   - Mo- t recent s ticate of agricult-ral area ased tenporarily or poems-               ualliary perao 1nel aith training or caperlnce.
nently for crepe, pasture-, market & kitchen g-rden-  or to lie follow.                   Poplation  ear hospital bed - Pepolation divided by number ef hospital beds
available in public end private general and specislised hespitl and
GINP per cseita  ff50) - MGP per capita estisrtrs  at curent nariot prins,                     cehabilitation centers; exclude- noesing hontes and ost-blisesants far
calcalated by sne convera-on method as World brak Atlas (1973-75 basis);                    cutodial and preventie care.
1960; 1970 sad 1975 data.                                                                 Per ca.i.a *upplv of calories (% of requirentn) - Conputed from seergy
cosivalent of net food eapplies av-ilable in euntry par tspies per day;
PeoplsElo  and vital statistic;                                                               arilable aopplies conpris. doseetic predaJtion, imports Iese enporte, and
'oewlation fold-year million)   4 of July first:  if not availoble, average                   changet It atoch; net sopplies e-clode animal feed, seeds, qu nttties used
of ewe end-year emtimats; 1160, 1970 end 1975 d.an.                                         in food proseetiog and los-es in diatribation; r-quireqta wars estimted
by FAO based -n physiological needs far n-r*mL activiry and health co-Wa-
Popuistivq denairn - rer equsre he - Mid-year pepolatbot   per aquerc kilostar                artga eiree    taipvrat-g  borbdy s- ighta, age and se  distri.-u.a of
fiof hecta res 7- ftta rs                                                                   poplatis, and alloing l0  for waste at houshaid leve.
Pueplati* d. .ity  - pee sare km of aric. land - Compated  s aherb   for                         et          ap ly of  pretin f     ar day) - Pretein content af Par capita
agricultural land only.                                                                     net suply offod per day; net e-pply ef feed is deined as above; r ie
neots for all coontries etablished by LfiDA Economic Raebrch Sreic
Vital seariseics                                                                              provide fur a miniana allowance of 68 gram  of tetal pretsin per day, ,ed
Crude birth rats Per thonsand. aversee - Annual live births per thousand of                    20 gte  of animal aInd plIse protsin, of chick 10 grams aheuld  e animl
mid-year pepalation; tan-year s-itimatic  verags sding in 1960 and 1970,                    prteein; thes standards ore Ipetr than those of 75 gr     of tetal prtemie
and fios-y-er average endinrg in 1975 fer  rss rscent eatisat.                              aed 23 gr     of seimal protein as en av-rage fsr the  oerld, praposed by FAO
Cesde deech rate  ee  eboused. oversee - Annusl deaths pee thousand of mid-year                in the Third Werld Food Sueasy.
pop. latien; ten-year aritcuetic  -varagea ending in 1960 aed 1970 and five-              Per carita orotein euply from  -nia-al and onles - Protsie supply ef food
fear  -eerag  ending in 1975 fer mast recent estim te,                                      derived tram aciasale end puts-s in grams pr day.
Infant *mrtality rpts (/thooS - Asnual deaths of infants under one year of age              Death race fcthkn)  ges 1-4 - AonnPl deaths per thoasand in age group 1-4
per thouand lire births                                                                     years, to children in this age group;  uggested as an indic-tor of
Life emeectancy at birth fyrs) - average nupber of years of life raining at                    mal,-trition
birth; wwslly fiv_-yeer averages anding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 fsr develop-
ing coontris.                                                                             Educ-tion
Grosa respmduction rate-orerage numbwr ef  live daughters a wean will bear                   Adloated enrollment ratio - pti"aev school - Enrolhsent of a11 ages a  per-
Re her e.-al rep-eduetice period if she emperiseces present age-specific                   centage of priuary sohosl-aga pspuhltio; includes children aged 6-1l years
fertility rates; saually five-year averages ending ia 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; fee countries with
for daveloping countrie.                                                                    universal education, enrelmlent nay emceed 100i  since s.e  pupils see balo1
poewl tion cro    rate fS -0 toa  - C00- sPnp d <anusl grevth race  of mid-year                or bev  the officia1 -hoeL age.
pepulaton fee1950-60  1960-8 and 170-75.hdltaatd seroloamot  erie -s dtonday sahol - Computed as above; saondary
pu2glation growth rate (7.5 - urban - Computed liks growth rate of total                       education requires at Isa.t fPr year of appr-ead primry inat-stien;
Pplti; different definiti_n   of  urban a-a  nay aff.ct eosp-ability of                      provides general,  ocational sr teacher traiing instructie-  for pupils
data    ong                                                                                  of 12 to 17 years of age; eereapondenoe courses  ea  generally scluded.
Urbsn ppapetion (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                 Years of achoolino erovided (first and second 1-sela) - Ttal yesr of
dsfimitiona of orb-e areas may affect eamp-rability of dta ameng countries.                   cheolig; at secondary level, vo-atio-l inatrsction may be partielly or
coeplately macboded.
All  treotnee (percent) - Children (0-l4 yeasr), working-age (15-64 ye-rs),                  von-tiona1 enrelloent (7 of  Vecondaryl - bonational institutions include
and retired (65  years and over) a- percentages of mid-year population                       technical, industrial or othr programs vhich operate independently or as
ARe deempden.y rctio  - Ratio of popaltion coder 15 and 65 and over to those                   depsetteett  of secondary itatitotions
ef ages 15 chr-ugh 64                                                                      Adult literacy rate (T) - Literate adolte (sbls to read sod write) as per-
Ecoonamic dePenden.v ratio - Ratio ef population under 15 and 65 sod ov-r tr                   centage of total adolt population -fed 15 years rnd over
the labor forte in age gr9ap of 15-64 years
FPnily Plan.inR -acespters (c,n,slativo, thool - Cunuleti-e manwr of acceptors               Ioeaing
of birth--ontrol devices under .-pi.e- of national family pl-oning program                 Persos pwr coon - (rb-n) - Average nonber of per-ons per ream  it pecupied
since inceptio.                                                                              conventional dwellings it urban areas; dwelling- exclude no-Peraen
Fanily PlanninR - users ft of married wonee) - Percentage  of married wean of                  -ruetures and -nscr-pied ports                               n
child-bearing sge (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices te .11 rrried                Occupied deellinos without piped ester (') - O-npied conventional dwellings
woe  nsm   ge group.                                                                 in uban and rural areas a thoar, inside or ontaids  iped aster facilities
*a  pereentage of all occupied dwelings
OtPIOY_ t                                                                                    Access to eectricity (f sf a11 dwellingA) '- Ct -vention-l d-Illinga with
Total Labor force (thewsnd) - Economically acti-e  parsene, including .s-ed                    electricity in living quarters as perce- t of retal dwellings in urban and
faees  nd unaployad bat antlading h-e-a-ies,  tedant, etc.; definitions                      crel areas
in earfus cotntrie  sre  net oeparabls.                                                    Rural dellinas connected to  e1-ctriLtny   3    Camp.ted as above for m al
Labor fares is asricaltare (2) - Agrieult-ral labor fsrne (in faraieg, forestry,               dwellings only.
huntMig sad fishing) as Pernntage of tetal lsbhr force.
fn_aployed (f of laber ferns) - -   nanplyed are ewally defined as persons who               Cpr unetLoq
are abla ed willing to takb  a job, out of a Job on a given day, rained out                Radio reeiere  fee  thou pop) - A11 types of receiver  fer radio broadcasts
of a jeb, nd seaking work for a specified minimum period met enceeding one                   to general public per thousand of papulatton; .cludes aelicened receivers
eak; my net he cparable between countries das te different definitions                       in countries and in years when registratien of radio  et tas in effiet;
of anaploysd and source of data, eg., eppleymert effic  tatiati-s, sample                    data for recent years may net be .eaparable einot me-t co-ntriss  bolished
urveys, nomPuls4ry unamploys-ent inurance,                                                   licensig.
P...ma. cars loe hr.ee   Passenger esra coprise .atar cars seating
facoes distribution - Percentage of prOrate mns--  (both in oash and kied)                     I... than sight Person; socludes ambulncaes, hearses and military
reeirsd by richest 5%, rtichest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40T ef house-                  rehicle.
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/yr per ear) - Annui conaunption of industrial, tesernial
public and private s1enteicity in kilowatt hours pee tapirs, generaly
Distribution of land oanarahip - fercentagem  of land owned by wealthiest 10%                   based on production data, witho-t  llowance fer leses in grids hot allo-
and poora t 10% of land owners                                                               ing for imprt-  and sapmrti of  leotritity.
Nesprint (kg/yr w   cas) - Per capita annual consuption in kilogr
H.sith and Nutrition                                                                            estimated gram doM tief praduetien plu.se nt imperta of  -meprii.t
P0pwlation mar phayician - Pepulatbam diwid-d by n-s%r if practicing
physicians ,uqlifimd frea   -edical school at oniversity levl.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(A-ounts In Million US Dollars)
Actual              Preliminary    Estinated
1972     1973     1974         1975            1976               1965-72      1972-75       1973-76         1972      1974      1976
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                        Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate of $1 = 17.0 Din.               Average Annual Growth Rates                 As Percent of GDY
Gross Do-estic Product                     21,638  22,720   24,765       25,887          26,922                 5.6           6.2           3.8         97.8    100          99.3
Gains from Terms of Trade                     466      681   _-            +142            +197                                                           2.2     -           0.7
Gross Domestic Income                      22,106  23,401   24,765       26,029          27,119                 5.5           5.6           5.0         100.0    100        100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                         6,588   7,600    8,312        8,350           8,082                12.6           8.2           2.1         29.7      33.6       29.8
Exports (itol. NFS)                         5 437   5.788    56_9         5.872           6,506                 8.3           2,6           4.0          24.5     23.0       24.0
Resource Gap                                1,151   1,812    2,,618       2,478           1,576
Consumption Expenditure                    16,139  17,716   19,953       19,795          19,670                 6.7           7.0           3.5         73.0      80.6       72.5
Inve5tment Expenditure                      6,650   6,816    7,429        8,570           8,827                 6.0           8.8           9.0         30.1      30.0       32.5
National Savings                            6,904   6,606    6,241        7,330           8,717                 6.6           2.0           8.6          31.2     25.2       32.1
Domestic Savings                            5,499   5,006    4,812        6,092           7,252                 3.1           3.5          13.2         24.9      19.4       26.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                   Asnual Data at Current Prices                                                                       As a Percentage of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                               689   1,004    1,305        1,887           1,758                                                         21.3      17.4      23.9
petroleum  sod Puels                        177     359       952         943           1,080                                                          5.5      12.6       14.6
a        Intermediate Goods                         1,859   2,450    4,291        4,109           3,618                                                         57.7      57.1      49.1
Consumption Goods                           502     698       972         758             911                                                         15.5      12.9       12.4
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)             3,227   4,511    7,520        7,697           7,367                                                        100.0    100.0      100.0
Exports
Capital Goods                               316     389       514         695             920                                                         14.1      13.5      18.8
Textile and Leather Goods                   362     409       477         600             761                                                         16.2      12.5      15.6
Non-ferrous Metallurgy                      272     323       556         458             472                                                         12.2      14.6       9.7
Agricultural Products (incl. food)          400     475       439         488             640                                                         17.9      11.5      13.1
other                                       887   1255    1.819         1.831           2085                                                          39.6      47.9      42.8
Total Merch. Enports (f.o.b.)             2,237   2,853    3,805        4,072           4,878                                                        100.0    100.0      100.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                     1974 - 100
Enport Prioe Indes                           63      76       100         109             114
Import Price Iden                           58      68       100         105             109
Terms of Trade Index                        109     112       100         104             105
Export Volume  Index                         93      99       100          98             112
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                      Annual Data in Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate
o.E $1 = 17.0 Din.                                                                        As a Percentage of Total
Agriculture                               3,213   3,496    3,763        3,663           3,846                 2.7          4.5           3.7          15.6      16.0      15.0
Manufacturing and Mining                  6,374   6,712    7,471        7,888           8,125                 6.6          7.4           6.6          31.0      31,8      31.8
Other                                    10956  11,362   12.276        13,026          13.589                 5,4          5.9           6.2          53.3      52.2      53.2
Total                                    20,543  21,570   23,510       24,577          25,560                 5.3          6.2           6.2         100.0    100.0      100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                Current Prices                                                                           As Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Current Receipts                          2,772   3,489    4,841        6,305            ..                   ..            ..           ..           17.5      19.5
Current Expenditures                      2,520   3,154    4,794        6,267            ..                   ..           ..            ..           16.0     19.4
Budgetary Savings                           252     335       47           38            ,.                   ..           ..                          1.6      0.2
Public Sector Investment                    224     281       328         352            ,.                   ..           ..                          1.4       1.3
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WOREERY                        TOTAL LABOR FORCE                                  VALUE ADDED PER WORRER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE 61 = 17 Din.
Million       X of Total           1972-75                     US Dollars             Percent of Average        1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate              1972      1975             1972     1975    Av. An_. Growth Rate
Agriculture  /                             3.55    3.10   45.4    39.0           -4.6                        905    1,182               34        38            19,3
O-nufacturing and Mining                   1.65    1.87   2.1.2   23.6            4.3                     3,863    4,218               147       136             3.0
Other 2/                                   2.60    2.95   l3.4    37.4            4.3                     4 214    4 456               160       142            1.6
Total -                                    7.80    7.92  100.0   100.0            2i mI                                                T O0    1T0              fli
1/ Budgets of Federation, Republics and AutonoSsous Provinces, and Coea.nes unconsolidated.
2/ Total resident active lsbor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad snd unerployed.
E/ Estimated active labor force in the private and social agricultural sector.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
January 27, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                                 Estimated  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974    1975         1976        1977         1972-76
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                  3424    4363    5696    6307          7259        7985          20.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                  3828    5124    8337    8760         8664        10832          22.5
Resource Balance (X-M)               -404    -761   -2641   -2453         -1405      - 2847
Interest                             -165    -222    -285    -337          -350      -  428          20.2
Workers Remittances                   889    1301    1511    1575          1728        1750          18.1
Other factor services net              17       50       93       62         40          42          23.8
Current Transfers (net)                82       96      138      121        137         150          13.6
Balance on Current Account            419      464   -1184   -1032          150      - 1333
M&LT Loans /1
Disbursements                       943    1170    1426    1850          1700        2424          15.9
Repayments                         -570    -686    -814    -930          -800      - 1091           8.8
Net Disbursements                     373      484      612      920        900        1333          24.5
Capital Transactions n.e.i./2        -117    -255       139      -68       -133         -
Use of Reserves                      -675    -663       438      180      ,-917                              Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                               DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE/4L   1972    1973    1974           1975
Official Grants & Grant-like           -        -        -        -    Public Debt Out. &          1618 T    186T3  206.73   22T27-5
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                               75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt    63.2    97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                  -        -       -        -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3   205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                   -        -        -        -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5   302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                       183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service              638.2   746.4   822.7    989.7
Suppliers                          82.3      3.0       .6      -    Total Debt Service            855.7  1048.5  1206.2   1419.5
Financial Institutions            121.4       -     73.1    86.2
Bonds                                -        -     51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (%)/5
Public Loans n.e.i.                 4.2       -        -       -
Total Public M&LT Loans             466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio i5,C            5.2      5.7       5.A
Total Debt Service Ratio   19.3    17.6    16.4          17.6
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -          -        -         -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                 Disbursements only           Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                          559.1                  24.6
IDA                                   -                     -            Int. as % Prior Year
Other Multilateral                    5.3                     .2                         DO&D         4.7      6.0      5.4       5.9
Governments                        1304.3                  57.4          Amort. as % Prior Year
Suppliers                           115.6                   5.1                          DO&D        11.5    12.7    15.1        15.0
Financial Institutions              269.9                  11.9
Bonds                                18.1                     .8       IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                     .1                   -             "  as % Public Debt O&D  19.6    18.8    20.6          24.6
2272.5                 100.0             as % Public Debt
Services    14.7    12.7       11.6      12.9
Other M&LT Debts/3                 3492.7
Short-term Debt (disb. only)          -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/  Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
January 27, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at April 30, 1978)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-one Loans fully disbursed                                   567.7
777     1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water  45.0    15.5
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                    Tourism              20.0      0.7
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0      5.6
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      4.2
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    21.4
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                   Roads                30.0      0.4
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit   28.0       2.9
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0          3.5
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             93.0    36.3
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion    44.0    17.6
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      5.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit              50.0    28.4
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                   Roads                    -    20.2
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline                 ,    37.2
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Wate.
Resources           20.0    17.2
1263    1976   Sarajevo 'Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    41.8
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control             38.0    37.2
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit              50.0    32.6



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0          53.7
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,         Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0      25.5
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      23.7
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0      47.7
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic              Transmission         80.0      80.0
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka          Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      75.0
1534/a   1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                  Railways             100.0    100.0
1535/a   1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia        Roads                 80.0     80.0
Total (less cancellation)                            1,807.6/b  813.3
of which has been repaid                             195.5
Total now outstanding                                1,612.1
Amount sold                             7.8
of which:  Amount repaid              6.8              1.0
Total now held by Bank                               1,611.1
Total undisbursed                                                813.3
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   A loan of US$73.0 million to Elektroprivredna Bosne i Hercegovine for a
Middle Neretva Hydro Power Project was approved and signed subsequent to
the above date of Statement A; it is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1978)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation       -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry            7.5    2.7       10.2
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler             Automotive
Benz A.G.                             Industry        13.4    3.4      16.9
1972   Sava/Semperit                          Tires              4.0    1.5       5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                            Pulp and Paper  13.3       -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0       -       10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                    Steel             50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom ro Industrija Smrznute          Food and Food
Hrane                                 Processing       4.0    2.3       6.3
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.4    2.5      17.9
Total Gross CommitmLents                               132.6   22.4    155.0
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                              71.9    2.6      74.5
Total commitments held by IFC                           60.7   19.8      80.5
Total Undisbursed                                       14.3   11.4      25.7



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir is now being
filled. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1979. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
legislation. After a delay of about five years, a draft law has been prepared
by the Kosovo Government and is expected to be enacted in the near future,
which will assist in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 29, 1978.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks. Advance bookings for 1978 represent a
considerable improvement over the corresponding 1977 period.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Project construction has progressed slowly and is expected to
be completed by mid-1978, about one and one-half years late. Its cost has
increased to about $415 million (up 84 percent) chiefly due to escalation in
prices. The resulting cost overrun is being financed from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own
internal sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until
mid-1976, but their recommendations have now been made and are being discussed
with JUGEL and the Borrowers with the objective of beginning implementation of
the recommendations by mid-1978. The promulgation of the new Constitution in
1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and financial status of the
Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement of their policy of pool-
ing resources at the Republican levels required changes in the legal arrange-
ments including the application of financial covenants. These changes were
incorporated in the Second Power Transmission Project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective I)ate: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are completed, seven are under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the proj-
ect has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two and one-half years in
project implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs
and revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end-1979.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
All road sections are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments a[re now being finalized. An EDI type training course
is also being arranged in Yugoslavia in October 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to
soon catch up and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway tariffs
to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative diffi-
culties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementation.
With tariff increases approved both in early 1977 and 1978 these problems have
largely been resolved. Meanwhile, institutional developments, including
improved investment planning and management, the formation of COIs and the
signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies have been most
encouraging.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In general the Project is progressing well. Except for railway
facilities outside the port area and the grain silos, the project is expected
to be completed by mid-1978, about six months behind schedule. The railway
facilities and grain silos are scheduled for completion by end-1978 and
end-1979, respectively.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component is nearing com-
pletion. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage component.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Ninety percent of the loan has been committed. Dis-
bursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and
learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the last year.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic.  Work in Slovenia is on schedule but progress in Montenegro is somewhat
slow owing to contract delays. Nevertheless, all road works should be com-
pleted by the loan closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a seven-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the Project will be completed
on schedule. The revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there
would be a cost overrun of about 27 percent because of required changes from
original project components and increases in local costs. The Borrower is
taking steps to obtain supplementary financing from various sources both
foreign and local. The economic viability of the project remains sound. Upon
review of the award of a site preparation contract, the Bank concluded that
the contract was not awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000) that would have otherwise been
eligible for disbursement was cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished and the report is being
finalized. The flood control and water quality studies are underway after
initial delays in selecting consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam has
begun.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the
remainder is well advanced. Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice.
Final designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak are underway, and in Titovo
Uzice, are dependent upon the recruitment of suitable foreign assistance
to local consultants. The pilot irrigation components have been delayed
pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements. The creation
of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened
in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Morava Region
Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and construction is underway. Prequalification
of contractors for the sewage treatment plant was completed and design work
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been
recruited and work on major tenders is underway. Contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high-pressure loop-line have
been awarded and mobilization is underway. Tendering for gas transmission
line, Sarajevo-Zvornik, is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The portions of the loans to the Bosnian, Macedonian and Montenegrin
banks have been progressing satisfactorily. The portion for the Kosovan
bank, while being committed more slowly, is forecast to be fully committed
by end-July 1978. Disbursements are slightly behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants have been retained as project consultants and are
proceeding with final designs on the project components and preparation of
bidding documents. Two local construction contracts have been awarded and
invitations for international tenders for the dam will be issued shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. Tendering for ICB procurement
for the winery and cold stores is in progress.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for four out of eleven agro-industrial sub-projects have
been approved by the Borrower. Sub-projects in the individual sector are
being processed. The hiring of procurement consultants is expected soon.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
This loan was declared effective September 7, 1977. All road
contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in progress. The
contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has also been awarded. The
studies on Road User Charges and Rail Costs are in progress.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan was declared effective January 31, 1978. Procurement has
commenced. The proposed loan from the European Investment Bank was signed
in November 1977 and local loan agreements have been executed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan was declared effective January 30, 1978. All participating
banks have identified the main investors and indicated that funds will be
committed faster than under the first project.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is August 31, 1978.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: July 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is July 31, 1978.



ANNEX III
YUGOSLAVIA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
A.   First Bank Mission to review project  : June 1977
B.   Departure of Appraisal Mission           :  September 26, 1977
C.   Completion of Negotiations                  March 14, 1978
D.   Planned date of effectiveness            : October 31, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Agreements negotiated:
(i) domestic resources lent to social sector sub-projects receiving
Bank funds will carry an interest rate of at least 6 percent, and
to private sector sub-projects, at least 5 percent (para 62);
(ii) sub-projects with total cost exceeding US$10 million equivalent
will have to meet a cost per job criteria (US$40,000 per job or
less--para 59).
B.   Special conditions for Board presentation, effectiveness and disbursement:
None.



