CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1611 YU
Loan Agreement
(Third Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
Dated July 26, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1611 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA, acting in its
own behalf and on behalf of its founder banks (hereinafter called
the Borrower and hereinafter sometimes also referred to as KEP), a
Bank established and operating under the laws of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and pursuant to a Self-Management
Agreement dated January 13, 1978 (hereinafter called the Self-
Management Agreement) and operating within the Socialist Autono-
mous Province of Kosovo (hereinafter called Kosovo).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project as hereinafter defined by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and other
charges;
(C) the Bank has entered into three loan agreements of even
date herewith with Privredna Banka Sarajevo Udrulena Banka
(hereinafter sometimes called PBS), Stopanska Banka Skopje
Zdrulena Banka (hereinafter sometimes called SBS) and Investiciona
Banka Titograd Udrulena Banka (hereinafter sometimes called IBT)
whereunder the Bank has agreed to make to PBS, SBS and IBT each
a loan in an amount equivalent to $20,000,000 (such loans herein-
after collectively called the Other Loans and each of such loans
being hereinafter sometimes referred to as an Individual Loan) in
order to assist PBS, SBS and IBT in the financing of similar types
of projects consisting of various Investment Projects (as defined
in said agreements) in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and
Macedonia (as these terms are hereinafter defined), said loan
agreements being aometimes called the Other Loan Agreements;
(D) the Borrower on the one hand and PBS, SBS and IBT on
the other hand have agreed to cooperate with each other in the
carrying out of their respective projects to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Other Loans, through a Unit as
further described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in Schedule
3 of each of the Other Loan Agreements; and


﻿- 2 -
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) (i) "Bosnia and Herzegovina", (ii) "Montenegro" and
(iii) "Macedonia" mean the respective Socialist Republic of such
name.
(b) "Unit" means the unit established jointly by, and
in agreement between the Borrower and PBS, SBS and IBT pursuant to
Section 6.01 of the Second Loan Agreement and to be maintained in
accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, all for the
purpose of the cooperation among each other as described in
Recital D of the Preamble to this Agreement.
(c) "Sub-unit" means the sub-unit established by the Bor-
rower, pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of the Second
Loan Agreement and to be maintained in accordance with Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by, the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a


﻿-3 -
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an industrial enterprise
to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(f) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan, provided, however, that such a devel-
opment project shall not include any project in the agricultural
sector.
(g) "Labor Intensive Investment Project" means an Investment
Project the value of whose fixed assets (including permanent
working capital) shall, when divided by the number of jobs to
be created or to be maintained as a result of the Investment
Project, not exceed the equivalent of $23,000 in current prices.
(h) "Special Investment Projects" means collectively and
individually the three Investment Projects consisting of one
industrial battery plant in Pec, one non-metallic battery parts
plant in Zrze, and one lead smelter and refining plant in Zve6an,
respectively, to be approved by the Bank pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, all of
which provide for high total employment at a moderate cost per
job, shall be expected to export a large part of their production,
are expected to use local raw material, are located in under-
developed communes in Kosovo and which are expected to help
diversify the industrial sector of Kosovo.
(i) "Borrower's Statutes" means the Statutes of the Borrower
dated May 28, 1973 as may be amended from time to time.
(j) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the statement of lending and investment operations and
policies for the Project set forth in Part C of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, as such statement may be amended from time to time
with the prior approval of the Bank.
(k) "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba Drustvenog
KnJigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Constitution of the Guarantor.
(1) "Prior Loan Agreement" means Loan Agreement number
1012-YU between the Bank and SBS, Subsidiary Loan Agreement


﻿- 4-
entered into by SBS and KBP in accordance with Loan number
1012-YU, Loan Agreement number 1013-YU between the Bank and PBS
and Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into by PBS and IBT in
accordance with Loan number 1013-YU and "Prior Loan" means any
loan provided for Therein.
(i) "Second Loan Agreement" means loan agreement number
1277-YU between the Bank on the one hand and PBS, SBS, IBT and
the Borrower on the other hand and "Second Loan" means the loan
provided for therein.
(n) "Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977.
(o) "Dinars" and "Din" mean Dinars in the currency of the
Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time: (i) for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for
amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals
made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan (A) to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services incurred in currencies other
than Dinars required for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested, or (B) to
meet the ex-factory cost of items manufactured in Yugoslavia which
shall have been procured in accordance with international competi-
tive bidding procedures consistent with those set forth in the
Guidelines; or (ii) on account of expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods and services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required on account


﻿-5-
of technical assistance provided to the Borrower as set forth
in paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement; provided,
however, that, in the case of sub-loans, no withdrawal shall be
made in respect of such sub-loan unless (i) the sub-loan shall
have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a
free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $1,000,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of
the Prior Loan or of the Second Loan for such Investment Project
or (ii) $12,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-
limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval if such expenditures shall have been made more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such sub-loan the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect
of a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-
limit sub-loan the request and information required by Section
2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) Any of the three Special Investment Projects may be
substituted by another Investment Project, subject to the Bank's
approval of such Investment Project pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, provided, how-
ever, that the value of fixed assets (including permanent working
capital) of such Investment Project shall, when divided by
the number of jobs to be created or to be maintained as a result
of such Investment Project, not exceed the equivalent of $60,000
in current prices.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank. for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory.to


﻿- 6 -
the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment Enter-
price and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including the
financing plan for the Investment Project and a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) a description of the procurement procedures
followed or to be followed by the Investment Enterprise in carry-
ing out the Investment Project; (iii) the recommendations of the
Sub-Unit; (iv) the proposed terms  and conditions of the sub-loan
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan; and (v)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including the financing
plan for the Investment Project and a description of the expendi-
tures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) the recommendations of the Sub-Unit; (iii) a description
of the procurement procedures followed or to be followed by the
Investment Enterprise in carrying out the Investment Project; and
(iv) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization t',:efor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1981.
(d) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall submit to the Bank for its approval or authorization,
Labor Intensive Investment Projects for which the estimated
reasonable foreign currency cost for goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be equivalent in
the aggregate to at least $5,000,000.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-7-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans which have
been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account
under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and; (ii) take into account
any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions
and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this
Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made
on June 15 and December 15 in each year. Any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on
account of expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required on account of
technical assistance provided to the Borrower shall, except as
otherwise agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, be applied po
rata to the several maturities of the principal amount of the Loan
and such amendments of said Schedule 2 shall provide therefor.
Such amendments of said Schedule 2 shall further include amend-
ments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend
beyond fifteen years from the date of this Agreement, and (ii)
shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more fre-
quent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approxi-
mately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or any part


﻿-8-
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
Kosovo as will contribute to the economic and social development
of Kosovo. The Project consists of (i) the financing of specific
development projects through loans to industrial enterprises in
Kosovo as specified in the Statement of Operations and Policies
for the Project, and (ii) the carrying out by the Borrower of a
technical assistance program consisting of: (A) marketing advice
covering individual sub-sectors focusing on the identification of
new project areas, to be secured from consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, (B) review of large projects prepared by
large Investment Enterprises to be carried out with the assistance
of consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, (C) tech-
nical advice for projects already in production which are experi-
encing operational difficulties to be secured by the Borrower
through consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
and, (D) foreign training for the Borrower's staff or for the
staff of a project already in production, the purpose of each such
training assignment to be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the Statement
of Operations and Policies for the Project and, to that end, the
Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
maintain in cooperation with PBS, SBS and IBT the Unit and the
Sub-Unit, with the composition and functions set forth in Sched-
dule 4 to this Agreement, and the Borrower shall have the Sub-
Unit review every one of its proposed Investment Projects and
sub-loans therefor and make appropriate recommendations thereon to
the Borrower before the Borrower shall make any application or
request to the Bank for approval or authorization of withdrawals
in respect of such sub-loans.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms
and conditions consistent with the Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project and on additional terms and conditions
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including, in the case of any sub-loan, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stan-
dards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured in accordance -ith the requirement set forth in
paragraphs 6 (g) and 6 (h) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Invest-
ment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) with-
out any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial


﻿- 10 -
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof, the amount of financing provided by
the Borrower, disbursements, repayments, interest and other
charges on such financing, including the sub-loan therefor) and
furnish to the Bank such information concerning such records as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Unit and Sub-Unit, their procedures,
operations and records, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, and the sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from the Loan, the Project, the Investment Projects
and the sub-loans.
(b) During the first calendar quarter of 1984, or such other
period as the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall in cooperation
with SBS, PBS and IBT, through the Unit, prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operations
of the Investment Projects financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from
them, the performance by the Borrower, SBS, PBS and IBT and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the Other Loan Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan and of the Other Loans.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
conduct its operations and affairs, including the Project, in
accordance with appropriate financial and investment standards
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and
staff, and in accordance with its Self-Management Agreement and
its Statutes.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all necessary measures to ensure that all complementary financing
shall be available to any Investment Enterprise in Kosovo as and
when required to enable the Investment Enterprise to carry out its
Investment Project in a timely manner.
Section 3.07. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower undertakes to charge on its domestic resources made
available to the Investment Projects, annual rates of interest
differentiated according to the following distribution:
(i) Social Sector Investment Projects: not less than
6%; and
(ii) Private Sector Investment Projects: not less than
5%.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Proj-
ect and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and expe-
rienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as a-ailable but in any
case not later than six months after the enL' rf each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
oF this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any founder bank of the Borrower, as security
for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan and that in the creation of any such lien express provi-
sion will be made to that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii)
if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or any founder bank of the Borrower, as security for any
debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equiva-
lent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the staff of the Borrower and
procedures of the Unit and Sub-Unit, the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower, and to any other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request concerning its administration, operations and financial
condition, the progress of the Project and the general status of
the Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall comply with any reasonable
request of the Bank for the Bank's representatives to inspect the


﻿- 13 -
records referred to in Section 3.03 or Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take all such steps satis-
factory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies (including Dinars and including
interest paid or to be paid or received or to be received on
account of such currencies) used in its lending and borrowing
operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreement or in the Statutes of the Borrower which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Borrower or for the suspension of the operations
of the Borrower.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified namely
that the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of October 24, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 14 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Udrulena Kosovska Banka PriNtina
Ul. Golelka 3
Priltina
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANKKOS                             18-149
Prigtina                            BANKKOS
Yugoslavia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
By /s/ Josip Kulisic
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category.
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Sub-loans for                                   5,000,000
Labor Intensive
Investment Projects
(2) Sub-loans for Special
Investment Projects:
(a) Battery plant in Pec                       5,500,000
(b) Non-metallic battery                       4,200,000
parts plant in Zrze
(c) Lead smelter and                          10,300,000
refining plant in
Zve6an
(3) Sub-loans for other                            14,700,000
Investment Projects
(4) Technical Assistance                              300,000
TOTAL           40,000,000
2.   If the estimate of disbursements under any Category or any
sub-Category shall change, the amount of the Loan then allocated
to, and no longer required for, such Category or such sub-Category
may be reallocated, at the request of the Borrower, to any other
Category or sub-Category, subject to the approval of the Bank.


﻿- 16 -
3.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category or sub-Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
December 15, 1980                                  200,000
June 15, 1981                                      400,000
December 15, 1981                                1,000,000
June 15, 1982                                    1,600,000
December 15, 1982                                2,200,000
June 15, 1983                                    2,600,000
December 15, 1983                                2,800,000
June 15, 1984                                    3,000,000
December 15, 1984                                3,000,000
June 15, 1985                                    3,000,000
December 15, 1985                                2,800,000
June 15, 1986                                    2,600,000
December 15, 1986                                2,400,000
June 15, 1987                                    2,400,000
December 15, 1987                                2,200,000
June 15, 1988                                    2,000,000
December 15, 1988                                1,600,000
June 15, 1989                                    1,200,000
December 15, 1989                                  800,000
June 15, 1990                                      600,000
December 15, 1990                                  400,000
June 15, 1991                                      400,000
December 15, 1991                                  200,000
June 15, 1992                                      200,000
December 15, 1992                                  200,000
June 15, 1993                                      200,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.50%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                        6.50%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.50%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
oubstitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Unit and Sub-Units;
Statement of Operations
and Policies for the Project
A.   Composition
1.   The Unit shall consist of four Sub-Units, one each from
PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP. The Sub-Unit of KBP shall consist of three
members appointed by KBP within its staff and acceptable to the
Bank, one of these members being designated by KBP as head of the
Sub-Unit. The head of such Sub-Unit shall in cooperation with the
heads of the Sub-Units of PBS, SBS, and IBT select among the heads
of said four Sub-Units one of them to serve as Chairman of the
Unit for a minimum period of six months.
2.   The Unit and Sub-Units shall meet as and when necessary.
3.   The Borrower shall provide the required supporting staff
for the Unit and the respective Sub-Unit in cooperation with
PBS, SBS and IBT.
B.   Functions
4.   The Unit:
(a) shall, on a uniform basis for PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP,
coordinate the preparation of appropriate reports concerning
information referred to in Section 3.04 and Section 4.06 of this
Agreement and of each of the Other Loan Agreements, and forward to
the Bank such reports, in such detail as the Bank shall request,
and all such other information as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request;
(b) shall, in consultation with the Bank, propose to PBS,
SBS, IBT and KBP through the Sub-Units appropriate time schedules
and procedures for supervision and evaluation of Investment
Projects and shall assist PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP through the
Sub-Units in carrying out such supervision and evaluation;
(c) shall maintain on behalf of PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP close
relations with the Bank and assist the Bank's representatives in
any inspection of Investment Projects financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and of each of the Other Loans and in exchange of


﻿- 21 -
views with PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP on matters relating to the Loan,
each of the Other Loans, the Project and the project financed out
of the proceeds of each of the Other Loans; and
(d) shall prepare the report described in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   The Sub-Unit of the Borrower:
(a) shall review each proposed Investment Project and
related application or request for a sub-loan on the basis of
a detailed appraisal of the Investment Project prepared by the
Borrower, in accordance with the Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project;
(b) shall, after its review, make recommendations to the
Borrower on each Investment Project and related sub-loan as to
its conformity to the Statement of Operations and Policies for
the Project and suggest any modifications required to achieve such
conformity;
(c) shall assist the Borrower in establishing and maintain-
ing appropriate records as provided for in Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement, in such detail as the Bank shall request;
(d) shall provide the Unit with such information concerning
the Borrower referred to in Section 3.04 and Section 4.06 of the
Loan Agreement; and
(e) shall, in coordination with the Unit, assist the Bor-
rower in carrying out supervision and evaluation of Investment
Projects.
C.   Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project
6.   Investment Projects, and sub-loans for Investment Projects,
shall conform to the following:
(a) Investment Projects will be limited to development
projects in manufacturing, processing and small basic industries
(excluding agro-industrial projects), provided, however, that
Labor Intensive Investment Projects may be submitted to the Bank
for approval or authorization for any type of industrial develop-
ment project, except agro-industrial projects.


﻿- 22 -
(b) Except for Special Investment Projects, Investment
Projects will be limited to small-sized and medium-sized projects,
normally not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000 in total
cost unless the sub-loan is to be made to an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project the value of whose fixed assets (in-
cluding permanent working capital) shall, when divided by the
number of jobs to be created or to be maintained as a result of
the Investment Project, not exceed the equivalent of $40,000 in
current prices.
(c) Except for Labor Intensive Investment Projects and
Special Investment Projects, the amount of a sub-loan to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall, with respect to
any Investment Project, normally not exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000.
(d) Investment Projects should provide satisfactory finan-
cial and economic rates of return, on the basis of detailed and
realistic estimates of costs and benefits, in addition to meeting
normal criteria of technical feasibility of the Investment Proj-
ect, marketability of its production and creditworthiness and
managerial competence of the Investment Enterprise. Normally,
Investment Projects with an internal financial rate of return
of less than 11% will be excluded. If the economic rate of return
is calculated to be less than 11%, a particular justification
will be required.
(e) The Investment Enterprise shall have a satisfactory
financial structure. Normally, its long-term debt-to-equity ratio
shall not exceed three to one unless, if higher, the appraisal
of the Investment Project should indicate that such ratio shall
be reduced below the above limit within a reasonable period of
time.
(f) Sub-loans for Investment Projects will be made for a
term consistent with the requirements of the Loan Agreement and
related to the useful life of the assets financed by the sub-loan,
or for a shorter term if consistent with the debt servicing
capacity of the Investment Enterprise, will be repayable in the
same currencies as the corresponding principal amount of the Loan
used for the purpose and will carry interest, payable with respect
to that portion of the rate of interest corresponding to the rate
of interest thereon to be paid by the Borrower to the Bank on
account of the Loan in the same currencies as the principal, at
an annual rate of not less than 11% of the principal amount out-
etanding. For the purpose of Section 2.08 (b), a period of grace


﻿- 23 -
of up to five years for Investment Projects appropriately co-
financed with other foreign exchange resources and when suitably
justified and up to three years for other Investment Projects may
be deemed appropriate.
(g) Procurement of the goods and services (except consul-
ting services):
(i) Contracts for goods and services to be financed
in whole or in part out of the proceeds of
the Loan, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more, shall be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with the Guidelines unless the Borrower
shall have satisfied the Bank that such procedures
are not appropriate for such award.
(ii) With respect to each contract for goods and ser-
vices to be financed in whole or in part out of
the proceeds of the Loan and not eg_verned by the
preceding subparagraph (i) the procurement of such
goods and services shall be made in accordance with
sound commercial practices at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them, due
consideration being given to the desirability to
apply international competitive bidding procedures.
(h) With respect to (A) all contracts for goods and services
to be financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more and which
are to be procured in accordance with the Guidelines on the basis
of international competitive bidding procedures, and (B) whenever
the Bank shall so reasonably request, all such other contracts
for goods and services to be financed in whole or in part out
of the proceeds of the Loan and which are to be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines on the basis of international
competitive bidding:
(i) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the


﻿- 24 -
invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concur-
rence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(ii) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(iii) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(iv) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(i) Each Investment Project will be subject to close super-
vision by the Borrower in accordance with the procedures proposed
by the Unit.


