tCIRCULTING CRY
=-r'EWURIVED TO REPORTS 'DESK
FILE        COPY                          t1RCUtATING- COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report Nop_1608a-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORRC
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND FORECTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
June 4, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY UNIT                =     Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
US$                          =     K Sh 7.14
KL 1                         =      US$2.80
K Sh 1                       =      US$0.14
K Sh 1000                    =     US$140.00
K Sh 1,000,000               =      US$140,000.00
FISCAL YEAR                  -      July 1 to June 30



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of $10.0 million and a proposed
loan for the equivalent of $10.0 million to help finance a second For-
estry Plantation Project. The credit would be on standard IDA terms and
the loan would have a term of 25 years including ten years of grace with
interest at 8-1/2% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade:    Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. It was followed by an agricul-
tural sector survey on Kenya (Report No. 254a-KE, dated December 20, 1973)
distributed on March 13, 1974. A special mission visited Kenya in February
1974 to review the economy's prospects and aid requirements in the light of
the changes in international prices. The mission reported to the Consultative
Group meeting held in Paris in April, 1974. The dialogue on economic and
social development strategy has been further intensified since. The ac-
celerated world inflation, including the oil crisis, had a serious impact
on the Kenyan economy. In response, the Government formulated an action
program to restructure the economy. We have had extensive discussions with
the Government about this action program in the context of our program loan
negotiations and in coordination with the IMF staff. Country Data Sheets
are attached as Annex I.
3.        Kenya's remarkable economic performance during the first decade of
independence was fully acknowledged in the Bank's 1974 Basic Economic Report.
Between 1964 and 1972, GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms, which
allowed significant gains in per capita income despite a 3.5 percent popula-
tion growth rate. Less satisfactory aspects of development in this period
were lack of progress in distributing the benefits of development more
equitably and, in particular, growing unemployment and persistent poverty
at the lower end of the income scale. The dualistic nature of the economy
at Independence in 1963, with its concentration of wealth in the European
and Asian communities and serious poverty in the rural areas where 90 per-
cent of the population lived, was at the root of this unequal development,
since it proved difficult to change rapidly.



- 2 -
4.        In looking ahead into the second decade of Independence, the Basic
Economic Report concluded that Kenya did not really have the option to con-
tinue the past pattern of growth and that in order to maintain the momentum
of growth an essential restructuring of the growth process would be necessary.
The past growth rate has been supported by a high and growing investment rate
both in the public and the private sectors (with fixed capital formation
reaching as much as 25 percent of monetary GDP in the early 70s). Kenya's
domestic savings rate, about 20 percent, is also one of the highest in the
developing world. There were some signs, however, that savings were level-
ling off, which raised doubts whether resource mobilization would be able
to keep up with the pace of investment. Moreover, there were some indications
of a falling efficiency of resource use (in terms of rising capital output
ratios as well as the disappointing growth of employment).
5.        The most critical constraint, however, is the external resource
gap. Although Kenya's export performance, including the growth of tourism,
has been very satisfactory, the pattern of past development has made the
economy heavily dependent on imported raw materials and capital goods. With
increasing production and investments, imports have grown rapidly. Rising
import prices exacerbated the problem and a resource gap emerged which
could not be filled by available capital inflows from abroad.
6.        Thus even before the upsurge in world inflation experienced
during 1974, it had become clear that the Kenya economy would eventually
run into an unmanageable balance of payments problem, unless growth were
to be based on greater use of domestic factors of production, and more
efficient use of available resources. The Basic Economic Report advocated
first a restructured pattern of growth in favor of the directly productive
sectors, most immediately to agriculture but also to resource-based industry.
Second, it recommended factor price adjustments to move market prices closer
to real scarcity values and thus increase the efficiency of resource use
throughout the economy. This would hopefully permit to continue rapid
growth in the long run, a first prerequisite for an effective attack on
unemployment and rural poverty. At the same time, it would directly
promote growth of income in the rural areas.
7.        The Third Development Plan, 1974-1978, published in early 1974,
contains a development strategy which is broadly consistent with the Bank
recommendations; the Plan also reflects the findings of the major UNDP/ILO
mission which visited Kenya at the Government's request in 1972 and pub-
lished an innovative report on employment, incomes and equality. By re-
structuring the economic growth pattern, the Government hoped to achieve a
7.4 percent growth rate, which would exceed previous performance; employment,
rural development and more equitable distribution of income were to receive
more attention than in previous years. Employment would grow by 3.2 percent
per year. However, in 1974 the Kenyan economy was hit by unprecedented up-
surge in world inflation and a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade,
which precipitated a balance of payments crisis.



-3-
8.        The terms of trade deteriorated by about 9 percent in 1974
(preliminary figures) as a result of soaring import prices which were
only partly offset by higher export prices especially during the earlier
months of the year. The volume of imports rose owing to stock buildup
while the volume of agricultural exports was depressed by drought. An
extraordinary trade deficit of nearly $450 million and current account
deficit of about $325 million (1973: $75 million) resulted.
9.        Although Kenya was one of the most seriously affected countries,
it managed to absorb the balance of payments effects of world price changes
without too much disruption during 1974. This was in part due to the
facts that initial foreign exchange reserves were at a comfortable level
and there was no shortage of the major staple food, maize. Net capital
inflows increased considerably and, moreover, the country got a favorable
response to its application for special financial assistance, especially
from the IMF, which provided $38 million under its oil facility. The
drawdown of reserves could thus be limited to $84 million. However,
the world inflation strongly affected the domestic price level through
the upsurge of prices of imported products. Serious domestic inflation
had occurred for the first time in 1973 when the cost of living went
up by 13 percent after a long period of average annual increases of
just over 2 percent. In 1974, the imported inflation reinforced the
internal pressure on the price level which resulted from reductions
in Kenya's crop and livestock production following prolonged drought;
the overall price increase may well reach 15 percent in 1975. GDP
growth in real terms slowed down to about 5 percent. The country's
external position is expected to worsen considerably during 1975, owing
to a steeper decline in the terms of trade than in 1974, which would
result from a levelling off or a fall of export prices and a continued
increase of import prices. Under these assumptions, the current account
deficit in 1975 will exceed that of 1974, probably by about $40 million.
10.       The basic objective of the Government's action program is to
restructure the economy as fast as possible, so as to achieve maximum
economic development in the future under much more stringent balance of
payments conditions. The aim is to restrain imports in a way that has
a minimum impact on production in the next few years and to direct more
production into exports. It will therefore be necessary to compress
public and private consumption and to channel investments into the most
productive and quickly yielding uses, in particular into appropriate
import substitution and export promotion. In both activities the agr-
icultural sector will have a major role to play; by further improve-
ments to its already good performance in previous years it will also
have to absorb more labor and maintain incomes in a period of possible
slowdown of urban employment. Manufacturing, which will possibly become
the most dynamic sector in the long run, faces a difficult adjustment
process in the next few years. It will have to improve its resource
utilization and reduce its heavy import dependence in favor of a more
domestic resource based production.



- 4 -
11.       A crucial component of the Government's strategy is the attempt
to hold down the domestic rate of inflation to well below world inflation
so as to help bring about import substitution and export promotion by
price differentials. This decision implies that real incomes have to
fall; this hardship will be distributed between income groups in such
a way that the lowest income groups receive full compensation for cost
of living increases, while better-off members of society are made to
bear a proportionately larger share of the burden by partial compensa-
tion or no compensation at all.
12.       In addition to the income policy, the action program relies
mainly on global monetary and fiscal policies reinforced by agricultural
pricing policies and some specific administrative measures. Not only is
the oversee money supply limited by increases in interest rates and
direct restrictions on credit expansion, but the Government is also
directing credit into agriculture, manufacturing, export business and
tourism. On the fiscal policy side, Kenya's already good tax perform-
ance as well as the measures introduced in 1973 and 1974 to make the
system more progressive does not leave much room for substantial tax
increases. The Government nevertheless intends to raise some taxes
on non-essential domestic and imported products and to further improve
tax administration and revenue collection. Some other envisaged tax
measures (capital gains tax, improved inheritance tax and increased
urban property tax) seek to promote equity as well as revenue increases.
The discussion continues with the other Partner States in the East African
Community about a modification of the common external tariff towards more
uniform rates for consumer goods and capital goods.
13.       A revised three-year budget for FY76 to FY78 has been adopted,
which aims at reducing the growth of government consumption, promoting
exports, increasing production of agricultural commodities for import
substitution and use of more labor-intensive techniques. Recurrent
expenditure growth in real terms has been reduced to 6 percent from
11 percent projected in the 1974-1978 Development Plan, and expenditure
growth included in the Development Budget is set at 7.8 percent (as
against 12 percent). This required the politically difficult decision
to bring the rapidly accelerating recurrent expenditure for education
under control; the Government has now decided to allow only a 6 percent
annual increase, freezing education's share of recurrent expenditure at
32 percent. In the Development Budget, the share of agricultural and
water development was increased from 22 to 35 percent while that of
road and building construction was brought down from 22 percent to 18
percent; moreover, a significant shift away from trunk roads to second-
ary and rural access roads was incorporated within the road construction
program.
14.       In addition to these domestic measures, the Government is seek-
ing to accelerate disbursements under existing foreign financing commit-
ments and to obtain additional commitments, including quickly disbursing
assistance, in order to maintain some momentum of growth while the restruc-
c ring policy is taking effect. Thanks to generally positive reactions



-5-
from donors, the external financing plan for 1975 is anticipating that
the larger part of the overall deficit can be covered through higher
inflows of conventional financing plus additional special inflows from
several bilateral sources as well as the IBRD; Kenya will also use sub-
stantial drawings on various IMF facilities. A similar effort would
have to be made for 1976 and following years to close the residual
balance of payments gap.
15.        In the past the Kenya Government has followed a conservative
policy with regard to external borrowing. Since Independence, Kenya has
accumulated new commitments at a rate of about 8.5 percent per year, or
somewhat less than the rate of growth of the economy as a whole in current
prices. As a result, Kenya's debt service burden is still comparatively
light (4 percent of exports in 1974, excluding Kenya's share of East
African Community debt), and the country could if necessary resort to
moderate borrowing on commercial terms during the next few difficult
years, without impairing long-term creditworthiness. At the end of 1974
total debt outstanding amounted to $722 million, of which $455 million had
been disbursed. About 36 percent of total external debt is now held by
the Bank Group (IBRD: 18.4 percent, IDA 17.7 percent), but because Bank
Group lending has only recently become a significant proportion of Kenya's
debt, debt service to the Bank Group in 1974 was still only about 13 per-
cent of all debt service payments (IBRD: 11.7 percent, IDA: 1.4 percent).
In addition to its own external public debt, Kenya is also jointly respon-
sible together with the other two Partner States for debts incurred by
the East African Community and its institutions, which amounted to some
$300 million (including undisbursed) at the end of 1974. Allowing for
a nominal one third of service payments on these debts, Kenya's total
debt service ratio is about 6 percent.
16.        In spite of the much greater need for external capital now
facing the country, Kenya is still following a cautious policy in her
external debt management, although the Government is making greater
use of suppliers' or export credits on favorable terms to finance some
of the larger projects now ready for implementation. Under the assump-
tions made by the Bank staff about balance of payments developments,
Kenya's external debt will have to increase considerably over the next
decade if the expected balance of payments gap is to be filled. While
Kenya's economic performance certainly justifies substantial amounts
of concessionary financing, including IDA credits, these are available
in limited amounts only. It can therefore be expected that the terms of
borrowing would be on the average less favorable than Kenya has enjoyed
in the past. However, since export earnings will increase during the
period as well, barring major unforeseen developments in Kenya's terms
of trade, the debt service ratio would probably not exceed 11 percent
by the end of the 1970s. By that time it is estimated that the Bank
Group might hold about 35-40 percent of total disbursed debt and receive
over 20 percent of debt service payments. Beyond 1980, creditworthiness
will depend on Government ability to take action in the near future to
increase the productivity of investments, to reduce the import propensity
and to increase exports. The revised public investment program of Kenya



-6-
for the next few years represents a major step in this direction. Tem-
porary higher debt service payments in the early 1980's may be followed
by a fall in debt service ratio in the latter part of the decade if the
Government's action program is successful. However, in spite of the
considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are such that a sub-
stantial part of the costs of the program, including limited amounts
of local costs in the case of projects with a low foreign exchange com-
ponent may have to be financed from external sources.
17.       Kenya is one of the three Partner States belonging to the East
African Community. The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation is one
of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation agreements
in existence among sovereign states in the developing world. However, in
practice the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the
Partner States is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Poli-
tical developments in the Partner States have created tension within the
Community and impaired the growth of interstate trade.      These difficul-
ties have been compounded by the balance of payments crisis which currently
faces all three Partner States.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
18.       Kenya has to date received thirteen Bank loans and seventeen
IDA credits amounting to $184.9 million and $135.7 million, respectively.
In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of nine loans total-
ling $229.8 million which have been extended for the development of common
services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry)
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African
Community -- Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East African
Community Corporations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       Ongoing projects in Kenya are on the whole progressing satis-
factorily, but manpower constraints in engineering and other technical
fields continue to present problems and have slowed down progress on
some projects. Because of the difficulties in attracting qualified
expertise, no immediate remedy can be expected. However, the gradual
increase in suitably trained Kenyans to fill such positions should
eventually alleviate these problems.
20.       While our past lending to Kenya has been dominated by support
for infrastructure, our lending in recent years marks a departure. Last
year Kenya was the first country in sub-Saharan Africa to obtain Bank Group
support for a population project. Recently, as a first step in providing
low-income dwellers in Nairobi with suitable housing, a site and service
project was presented to the Executive Directors. In support of the action
r--ogram adopted by the Government to restructure the economy and maintain



- 7 -
the momentum of growth in a period of serious balance of payments con-
straints, a Program Loan was recently presented to the Executive Direc-
tors. Our agricultural lending has been stepped up mainly as a result
of an expanded program of technical assistance both through our Regional
Mission in Eastern Africa and direct technical assistance to the Ministry
of Agriculture. The Government has now launched with assistance from
the Association, Canada, United Kingdom and United States, a five year
beef development program utilizing the grasslands in the Northeast of
Kenya. This project is expected to benefit some 170,000 people many
of whom are nomads. A tea factories project to ensure adequate process-
ing facilities for Kenya's high quality tea is under construction and a
project aimed at rehabilitation of some 130 group-owned farms is about to
start. A broadly conceived integrated crop production project, designed
to benefit a large number of small farmers, is about to be appraised and
preparation is now under way for an irrigation project in the Lower Tana
River Basin and for expansion of sugar production.
21.        Concurrently with efforts to support agricultural production,
we foresee a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure
and hope to assist rural access roads and rural water supply schemes in
the near future. We shall also shortly appraise a wildlife and tourism
project which will help provide infrastructure for new tourist circuits
and help spread benefits to rural communities.
22.       While the major emphasis will continue to be on agriculture and
the development of the rural economy, there is also a need for continued
support to infrastructure and services necessary for continued growth
of the economy. Apart from the proposed oil pipeline project, a power
project is being presented to the Executive Directors shortly, and a loan
for a water supply scheme to provide Mombasa and surrounding rural areas
with safe water has been negotiated. In addition, a second tranche for
the Industrial Development Bank has been negotiated.
23.        The difficulties facing the East African Community Corpora-
tions referred to in paragraph 17 have affected the Bank's lending pro-
gram for the Community. The East African Railways Corporation (EARC)
has been the most severely affected. As a result of long delays by
the Partner States in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions
placed on the interstate transfer of corporate funds, the Corporation
has been unable to order essential spare parts and supplies with the
result that its operational capacity has deteriorated drastically. In
July 1974 the Partner States agreed on a package of financial measures
designed to rehabilitate the EARC including transfers of funds and in-
jection of additional capital. However, this agreement has been only
partially implemented. Restrictions have continued to be placed on the
interstate transfer of EARC and other Community Corporations funds, and
EARC's position has deteriorated further. Since EARC corporate funds are
not being transferred in accordance with the formula agreed, and Sh 60
million out of a total of Sh 150 million the Partner States agreed to
inject into EARC have not been paid, the EARC's right to make withdraw-
als from the Loan Account (from Loan No. 674-EA) has been suspended pend-
ing action on both these issues. Furthermore, in the current state of



- 8 -
uncertainty regarding the future structure of the Community Corporations,
appraisal of further proposed community projects for Corporations which
may have structural changes has been postponed until the issues mentioned
above have been clarified.
24.        IFC has committed a total of $25.9 million for three companies
in Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
and Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya Ltd.).    As of April 30, 1975, IFC
held for its own account $17.9 million comprising $13.3 million of loans
and $4.6 million of equity. IFC is discussing with the technical partner,
SEDITEX, and the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation a pro-
posal to set up a new textile mill and is also considering support for
a sugar processing plant.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
General
25.       Kenya's greatest asset is her land, which supports about 90% of
her people mainly through crops, livestock and forestry. Forests, while
occupying only 4% of Kenya's land area and providing about 5% of total
export earnings, are vital to the country's future not only as a valuable
economic resource, but also in the preservation of water catchment areas
for the agricultural land. The forests also help protect the country's
rich and diverse plant and animal life which serve as an important tourist
attraction.
Forest Resources
26.       Kenya's forests, which are almost entirely publicly owned, are of
three kinds: the indigenous forest areas which cover about 1.8 million ha,
exotic soft wood and hard wood plantations covering about 120,000 ha and
rural afforestation schemes on marginal agricultural land and hilltops.
27.       The indigenous forests in Kenya have, over the past fifty years,
been continually exploited for the production of sawn timber and other
products. As a result, much of the commercially valuable species have
been cut out. Some areas, nevertheless, have quantities of productive
timber left and it is estimated that the indigenous forests have a potential
production of 150,000 m3 a year. Other areas, such as the forests in the
coastal region, have been so seriously exploited by the expanding charcoal
production that the Government introduced strict embargo on clear felling
to prevent further soil erosion.
28.       Because the valuable species of the indigenous forest are ex-
tremely slow-growing, the Government has for many years pursued a policy
of replacing some indigenous forests with plantations of exotic species
in the highlands which provide excellent growing conditions for softwood
'imber. In Kenya only 25 years are needed from planting to felling a tree



-9-
for saw wood, compared to 60-80 years in the temperate countries in the
northern hemisphere. For this reason Kenya has the potential of becoming
an important low cost producer of industrial woods.
29.        The Government is also engaged in supporting rural afforestation
schemes for protection of steep slopes from soil erosion and for production
of building poles and fuel wood for rural consumption. While only a small
amount of the budget is devoted to these schemes, the Government is giving
more attention to these activities primarily by offering farmers tree seed-
lings at subsidized rates and by improving the extension service.
Forests Environmental Role
30.       Apart from their timber production potential, the indigenous for-
ests have a number of other important functions. Chief among them is the
essential role they play in protecting and enhancing the surface and ground
water supply and in controlling soil erosion; they may also play a part in
regulating climatic conditions affecting the country's general agricultural
production.
31.       Despite the forests' long-term ecological value, pressures are
increasing on the use of this land for other purposes. Most of the for-
ested lands are situated in areas of high agricultural potential; about 16%
of the land area receiving more than 850 mm of rainfall annually is under
forest cover. The fact that the land best suited to the growth of forests
is also good agricultural land presents a serious and continuing problem
for Kenya's agricultural policies. As the rural population continues to
grow, so do the pressure of converting forest lands to farms, and it is now
evident that the catchment protection role of forest lands has been seriously
compromised. Illegal, spontaneous settlement, with continuous maize cropping,
is common. In several instances, the clearing of forests followed by uncon-
trolled grazing and cropping has already caused soil erosion problems and
deterioration of reliable water supplies. In addition, excisions of land
for agricultural settlement have been made on an ad hoc basis without proper
knowledge of, or concern for, the ecological cost.
32.        It is becoming increasingly apparent that some means must be found
for evaluating the various conflicting interests and for establishing a scale
of priorities. Land capability surveys should be carried out and a machinery
for adjudicating competing claims should be established. In this way rep-
resentative samples of important eco-systems can be preserved and the pres-
ent conflicts over land use can be minimized whether for forestry, agricul-
ture, wildlife, tourism and recreation. The Government has for some time
considered the establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Land Use Committee and
has now agreed to set it up by December 31, 1975 (Sections 4.01 and 6.01 of
Development Credit Agreement).
Demand for Forest Products
33.       A recent marketing study indicates a steady growth in domestic
demand for sawn timber on the order of 100,000 cubic meters of sawn timber



- 10 -
(m3(s)) in 1973 to 210,000 m3(s) in 1980, rising to about 610,000 m3(s)
or 75% of total supply by the end of the century. Because the existing
forests together with those established under the project would amply
meet domestic demand and yield a surplus of some 25%, Kenya hopes to
increase its share of sawn timber for exports. Sawn timber exports
reached 12,000 m3(s) in 1973 and has potential to grow rapidly if
processing capacity and quality improves. While Kenya expects a
decline in exports to other East African countries, her favorable
geographical location should place her in a prime position to supply
the Middle East, which by the end of the century is estimated to re-
quire some 3-4 million cubic meter of unbarked timber of which Kenya
could supply some 20-30%.
34.       Kenya at present imports most of its pulp and paper requirements.
In the future such imports are likely to be substantially reduced with the
newly established Webuya Paper Mill which will produce pulp and paper
products of acceptable quality.
Forest Industries
35.        There are about 180 sawmills in Kenya, most of which are small
and widely scattered. Many have obsolete equipment and produce low qual-
ity sawn timber mainly for the growing rural market. The sawmilling capac-
ity is a serious constraint to further development of the forest industry.
However, over the past few years the Government has provided a sawmill
extension service to assist the mills in identifying bottlenecks and im-
proving their efficiency and quality of sawn timber produced. Finland
has granted a line of credit of about US$1.5 million (equivalent) for re-
placement of obsolete equipment and for expansion of processing capacity.
While these efforts are meeting immediate needs, they need to be strength-
ened to enable the sawmilling industry to cope with increasing demand in
the medium and long term.
36.       Three plywood mills are in operation with a total capacity of
2.5 million m2 of plywood per year and another two additional are sched-
uled to begin operations shortly. There is one pulp and paper mill which
is about to enter into production this year, the Webuya Paper Mill, partly
financed by IFC. The initial design capacity of this mill is 54,000 tons
per year of both bleached and industrial grades of paper and paper board.
Further expansion of the paper mill to about 120,000 tons by the mid-80's
is being discussed. The pulp wood requirements of this new paper mill
are to be supplied, in large part, by the pulpwood forest plantation
program supported by a Bank loan for forestry development in 1969 and
by the pulpwood production in the proposed Project.
37.        Private industry is responsible for harvesting plantations.     Con-
cession agreements issued by the Forest Department stipulate the quanti-
ties of usable timber which can be extracted by the millers and the royalty
charged (stumpage fee) for each cubic meter removed. While the Government
agrees with the concept of charging a stumpage fee which would reflect the
Clst of planting, maintenance and replanting, the present rate is so low
that it will take considerable time to reach an adequate stumpage fee



without disrupting the saw milling industry. It has now been agreed that
a study should be undertaken with a view to establishing stumpage rates
for sawlog and pulpwood at levels which, taking the long-term view, would
enable the industrial pulpwood and sawlog plantations to become financially
self-supporting. As a minimum, the Government plans to double in real terms,
the stumpage fee for sawwood during the implementation of this project (Sec-
tion 4.02 Development Credit Agreement).
Forest Services
38.        The Forest Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources is
responsible for the management, protection and regeneration of forest
areas. For administrative purposes the Department is divided into five
field conservancies to supervise the industrial plantation areas, and a
number of special conservancies to oversee such activities as research,
training, industrial development, construction of forest roads, etc.
39.        The Government operates a Forest Industrial Training Center
(FITC) which offers training in logging, mill engineering, sawmill man-
agement, etc. The students are sponsored by the sawmill operators. In
conjunction with this Center, the Government owns a sawmill which it
uses for training purposes. Because this sawmill is larger than most
others in the country and too sophisticated to serve as a training ground
for the many small sawmills, the Government now plans to change the train-
ing program to suit the needs of the smaller mills, which serve the grow-
ing rural markets.
Government's Development Plans
40.        Chief among the Government's objectives in the development of
the forest resources is the protection of water catchment areas so that
water for agriculture and domestic use will be available in sufficient
quantities. Another important objective is the utilization of the for-
ests' economic potential. To this end the Government launched an indus-
trial forestry plantation program, aimed at supplying the domestic demand
of industrial timber and promoting long-term growth for exports of wood
products and thus take advantage of its low-cost production potentials.
To achieve greater efficiency of operations in forest and forest-related
industries, the Government also intends to work consistently towards im-
proving the capacity and efficiency of the smaller sawmills so that domes-
tic as well as export targets can be achieved.
41.        The Bank extended support for Government's forestry program ini-
tially in 1969 when it made a loan of $2.6 million to finance part of the
cost of forestry plantation of about 19,000 ha of sawlog plantations and
9,000 ha of plantations over a six-year period. This project is now nearing
completion. Apart from many quantifiable benefits resulting from this loan,
the project made an important contribution to institution-building including
the strenghtening of forest management, the upward revision of the stumpage
rate, and the introduction of a cost analysis and budgetary control system
which has produced data now being used for improving the forestry operations.



- 12 -
These improvements have, in great measure, enhanced Kenya's capacity to under-
take the proposed project and thus complete the Government's long-term plant-
ing program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       An appraisal mission visited Kenya in September/October 1974, and
negotiations of a credit and loan took place in April/May 1975. Mr. J. Omino,
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Natural Resources, led the delegation.
A report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Forestry Plantation Project" (Report
No. 706a-KE, dated June 4, 1975) is being circulated separately to the Exec-
utive Directors. A Credit/Loan and Project Summary is attached as Annex III
to this report.
Project Description
43.       The project would, over six years, complete the Government's
planting program aimed at providing raw material for sawmills and the pulp
and paper industry. Specifically the Project would include:
(a) afforestation of 38,000 ha for sawlogs, and 8,000 ha
for pulpwood plantations;
(b) further development - weeding, pruning and thinning -
of 120,000 ha of established plantation;
(c) construction, upgrading and general maintenance of
forest roads;
(d) construction of buildings and houses for forest per-
sonnel to minimum acceptable standards; and
(e) technical assistance for improving sawmill operations,
trial plantations to evaluate forest potentials, forest
land use studies, and training of local skills to inter-
pret data from the Earth Resources Technology Satellite
(ERTS).
Project Costs and Financing
44.       Total project cost including contingencies is estimated at $55.5
million (KSh 396.5 million) including taxes. The foreign exchange compo-
nent is estimated at $12.9 million or 23% of total project costs. Contin-
gencies equivalent of 28% of base line costs have been added to the proj-
ect cost. The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit of $20 million would
finance the foreign exchange cost plus about $7.1 million of local costs
or about 36% of total project costs. The balance of US$35.5 million would
be financed by the Government which would obtain some $20 million from
sLumpage fees and taxes.



- 13 -
Afforestation
45.       The plantation program would include establishment of nur-
series, land clearing, preparation of land, planting and weeding. The
planting program would require some 60 million plants a year to be raised
in 90 existing nurseries and 16 new nurseries to be established. Almost
the entire planting program would take place in indigenous forest areas
which already have been exploited. These areas would be cleared and
prepared for afforestation by the traditional "shamba" system whereby
the forestry workers, following the removal of the indigenous forest
cover, would on an organized basis grow food crops in the area for a
period of 5 years including 3 years of interplanting of trees. The main
species to be planted are pines and cypress. Planting would be done man-
ually. The entire planting area would be weeded once in the third year
after forest workers have ceased their agricultural cropping. Also in-
cluded in the planting program would be some trial plantation of about
40 ha annually in the Coast Province to determine the forest potential
both for pulp wood and saw wood in these semi-arid areas.
Development of Existing Plantations
46.       This program provides for further development of about 120,000
ha of existing plantations. It would include pruning of all sawlog crops
at a rate of about 25,000 ha a year and thinning would be carried out
in the sawlog plantations at a rate of about 4,000 ha a year. Because
of the danger of fire, fire breaks of 20-meter width would be burned once
a year.
Forest Roads
47.       About 160 km of all-weather roads to provide access to the
plantations would be constructed each year to acceptable standards. In
addition about 20 km of service roads would be upgraded each year. The
road construction would be carried out by force account by the road
service section of the Forestry Department which also would be respon-
sible for maintaining the roads.
Studies and Technical Assistance
48.       In order to ensure effective functioning of the Land Use Com-
mittee (para. 32), a Secretariat under the direction of the Commissioner
of Lands would be appointed on a full-time basis for the formulation and
recommendations concerning land use policies (Schedule 3 of Development
Credit Agreement). This Secretariat would be supported with studies to
be carried out by expert staff who would be financed out of the proceeds
of the proposed Credit and Loan. This staff, who will conduct a study
of public land suitable for forestry, will include a land use planning
economist, forest specialist, agronomist, hydrologist and ecologist, all
to be appointed in consultantion with the Bank. Funds would also be pro-
vided for developing skills to interpret data from the Earth Resources
Technology Satellite (ERTS) for classifying land use categories and
recording changes in land use patterns.



- 14 -
49.        The sawmill sector needs much improvement and expansion to be
able to process the output from the plantations. The project, therefore,
provides for technical assistance for 3 sawmill advisers. A small-scale
sawmiller's training center would also be established. With a view to
increasing sawmilling capacity, the Government would, with the assistance
of a consultant, prepare by the end of 1976 a detailed plan for the ex-
pansion of the industry.
Organization and Management
50.       The Project would be executed by the Forest Department.      Project
activities would be directed by a Project Director, based in Nairobi, who
would report directly to the Chief Conservator. He would be assisted by
an Assistant Project Manager and a Project Accountant, with supporting staff.
An internationally recruited forest economist would look into the possi-
bility of introducing more efficient operating methods and creating more
employment for forest workers and would also conduct a review of future
rural fuel wood demand and supplies. (See Section 3.02 of Development
Credit Agreement.)
51.       The Project work would be carried out in all 15 Divisions of the
existing 5 Conservancies. The Divisions contain 59 main accounting stations
and 47 substations. The Forest Department will continue to carry out activ-
ities outside the Project, including research, surveys, training, protection
of indigenous forests, and rural extension services on private land. This
work represents about 20% of the Department's budget.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.        Procurement of equipment and vehicles (US$2.8 million) in orders
exceeding US$50,000 would be by international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines; orders would be grouped whenever possible. Orders
for less than US$50,000 mainly for tools, office supplies, and minor equipment
would be obtained under Government procurement procedures which are satisfac-
tory. The infrastructure work and plantations would be executed by the For-
estry Department under force account. Due to the nature of the work and the
fact that it would be scattered over a wide area, it would not be likely to
attract either local or international competitive bidding.
53.        Disbursements would be made from the Loan/Credit Account on the
following basis:
(a) 35% of expenditures for civil works; project administra-
tion and afforestation;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures, or 75% of local expendi-
tures for vehicles and equipment; and
(c) 100% of foreign or 35% of local expenditures for con-
sultancy services, studies and training.



- 15 -
54.        Disbursements for administrative costs would be made against
statements of expenditures certified by the Government. All other dis-
bursements would be fully documented. The IDA credit would be disbursed
first. Because of the Government's desire to continue the momentum
gained under the First Forest Plantation Project, it continued plant-
ings this year. It is recommended that about US$1.3 million of total
expenditures incurred under the planting program starting on January 1,
1975 would be reimbursed out of the proceeds of the proposed Credit.
Accounts and Audit
55.       Adequate records and accounts would be set up and maintained
to reflect Project operations, resources and expenditures, and separate
accounts would be kept for the Project. Project accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and all audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months follow-
ing the close of the financial year.
Ecology
56.       Until recently vast areas of land within the tropics were
covered by forests. As population pressure grew, forest areas were
gradually taken over by agriculturalists. In addition, these forests
have also been affected by unrestricted logging by charcoal producers,
pastoralists and small farmers. Kenya has been no exception. Only in
recent years has attention been given to the forests' role as a tool in
the conservation of valuable land resources and a source of both present
and future economic wealth. Kenya's forestry development program appears
to take adequate account of environmental considerations. For example,
some 1.3 million ha or about 68% of the entire forest area in Kenya has
been designated as water catchment protection area. However, the indus-
trial plantation program, which provides for replanting of about 20% of
the indigenous forests, has caused concern among some environmentalists
in connection with the conversion of indigenous forests into fast growing
plantations. The current system of plantation development and possible
impact of the fast growing plantations on the hydrological balance in
the forest areas have been studied over a long period. This study,
together with other investigations elsewhere, provided sufficient
scientific evidence to confirm that there is no adverse impact on the
water regime by changing from indigenous forests to fast growing plan-
tations.
57.       While the Government has designated large areas of national
forest land as water catchment protection areas, there is also a need
to preserve areas of unique fauna and flora, some of which exist in
forests that could be commercially exploited or converted into planta-
tions. So far the Government has set aside some 40,000 ha of forests
as Nature Reserves or National Parks. Because of the interesting flora
and fauna in Kenyan forests, the Government has, in connection with this
Project, agreed to set aside as Nature Reserves two other areas large
enough to sustain flora and fauna unique to Kenya: one in the North



- 16 -
North Nandi and one in the Arabuko-Sakoko Forests. Furthermore a study
would be undertaken which would determine the need for additional Nature
Reserves in the Kakamega Forest Reserves in the Western Province. The
Government has, in addition, agreed to use its best efforts in setting
aside as forest reserves the Huri Hills Forests, the Karasuk Hills For-
ests and the riverine forests along the Tana River -- all dryland forests
now being threatened by increased pressures on land (Section 3.05 of
Development Credit Agreement).
Economic and Environmental Assessment
58.       The proposed Project would complete the Government's present
planting program which is part of a continuous program to provide the
local market with raw material for local sawmills and for the pulp and
paper industry. The primary economic benefits of the Project would be
the foreign exchange savings resulting from reduced imports of paper,
wood production and sawn timber and the foreign exchange earnings result-
ing from the increasing exports of sawn timber estimated at US$150 million
equivalent. The economic return for sawlog plantations over 25-30 years
is about 22% and that of pulpwood over 15-20 years 25%.    In addition, the
Project would have employment effects in that it would provide continued
employment of about 4,500-4,700 persons and thus benefit some 30,000
people taking into account their families. Investment of this kind would
also enable close supervision and upkeep of the area which in turn would
reduce growing pressure for settlement in areas now covered by indigenous
forests. While the establishment of forest plantations may disturb wild-
life and result in some dislocation, the ecological and environmental
benefits stemming from additional forest cover and further preservation
of water catchment areas in Kenya have important but unquantifiable
effects. And the establishment of an administrative machinery with
expert advice to systematically resolve land use conflicts would have
important long-term benefits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       A draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, and a draft Loan Agreement between the Republic
of Kenya and the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Provisions of the draft Credit Agreement concerning execu-
tion of the Project are incorporated by reference in the draft Loan
Agreement. Also being distributed separately are the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
the draft resolutions approving the proposed Credit and the proposed Loan.



- 17 -
60.        Conditions of effectiveness contained in the draft Development
Credit and Loan Agreements include submission to the Cabinet of a proposal
to establish the Land Use Committee (Section 6.01 of draft Development
Credit Agreement). Other interesting features of the draft Agreements
are mentioned in paragraphs 32, 37, 50 and 57 above.
61.        I am satisfied that the proposed Credit and Loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank, respec-
tively.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit and Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1975



0OU8Y8 DATA - D   A
Z                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~PaPULArM                           ls
, er bm2.f eroble land
SL. NDIDTCATOtS
Rnftrenro Coontrios
Kenya                                           iu.
linS             tar88in      9ore   Itriuco
_90          1F70            l7           190         I70
OIP PUR CAPTA UN (ATlAS BSTS) /.                                            170 A           120 /        310 /6      300 /a
DEMOIRALPIC
Cruof birth rate (per thou.and)                               50                           4 b8 47      28          25e
Crude death rate (per thousand)                               20 P4        18 /4           22/4          8           8  /
Infrnt mortality rate (per thousand liw births)                            55         160-165                       64 /e
Life  xpecta.cy at birth (years)                           40-45 Le        49             43           65          63
Orora rpduction r toS 3S3 2                                                32                          2.5         2.3
Population grosth rate                                                    32                           2.2 /3      2.2 /
Poplation grouth rate - urban                                               7 Z0SL                       6 /f       2  B
Ae rtru.ctars (Percent)
0-14                                                       46           LB n                         40A /o  44/b / 4 
15d4                                                        51 rt        48             753           57 *        56
65 and ove r                                                            1.                3 O        Od          0
genentec d:;,edenry r  io                                    1 4          11              12           1.1.        1.6
Urban populition as peromt of total                            8 /4e       10 642           7 /1!!       1 a        44. L4
7dlY planning   8,O of anptors cuaulativ   (thoa. 
go. of were (% of earriod men)
E       &or   torso (thouande)                               3,300 /       5,100 4o,      5,600 4e.   10,500 /O      250
PormOet     empoyoed in sriculture                          0. S         O  z2           91 48        LB          30
Perorntaq ums.ployod                                                       .                            8k        17
ror  or no     -inses reoired by bhigeat 5%                                                34           15
Parcoat of national inor r-oiedd by bigeost 2C%            ,      *60*                        7         37
Peronat of notional inscan reocivod by lowact 2iS                                           5           10
Peroaot oot national inco   raceivd by lo t WS                                             il           24 24
MSTRr3     l O'     0FER2
n y top IVA o     e o ers                                                                       28
% owed by    allbat .0% of osmers                                                                        2
EZALTR 1 MDKUTRTO
PopNiation per phycian                                     l O000 Ac s   7,830 /2 21,570 /4          2,210 /0    4.090
Ppulqtion per rcroing person                                1,610   Lt  1,470           4: 14890 7   1,760  j      800
population per bospital bad                                   810 7;       770             700 ?O    1 920         250
Per oapita calorie aupply as % of requirseente                103 ^9       10              73          103         104
Per eapita protein upply, total (gra     por dtyF/L   ,        75           71              43          65          So
Of bhieh, animal and pulaw                                   32           29              23          19 /o.,     19
Death rate 1-4 years /7                                                                                            4 .5 Lr
A        2 priary achool rnrollnent ratio                      49           67              37lk 101               105
Adjusted    as econary school anrollnt ratio                    3 /          9 /             3          1          3 /
Years of ieaoo1ia Uroeided, first and scond level              13           13             13           12          1.4
Vocational onrollent ra % of Mc. school enrollment             12            2               4          15 r         1 /
Adult literacry rat. %                                                      30 w.           .           81   .b
Avrage s.. of paraoia per ro-s (.rban)                        2.5 /v         .                         2.7
Percent of occupied wlts uithouht piped mter                                   .                        80 /nc
Acress to electricity (&a S of total population)                                                        50
Percent of tural populatioc connected to electricity                                                    30
CORUPTTON
Radio receivers pr lO00 population                              9           48  /           16 /       128  r      128 /8
Pa.se.ger cars par 1000 popeati-o                               8 c          9 ned           3 /.d       2/         16 /
Slectric p;myr coriioption (kh p.c.)                           50           78 /4           31  Z       392 /j     30 71
Re.sprint coneaption p.c. kg per year                         01.          0.5/4           01 /4       3.7 k       0.8 a1
Notes, Figure   rfer either to the latest periods or to          gcoo""t Of eneiro,e"tal te.peratre. body seigita   nd
thb  lteet yera. tateet periods refer in principle to             dietribution by ag  nd ias of national populatice.
the yea- 1956-60 or 1966-70; the ltact Ya. in pri.-         /6  Protein atar.dard  (requir-ant) for a11 touctrie- as estab-
diple to 1960 ad 1970.                                           liced by UBDA Econoni. Rceorch Serrico provide for a einie
A   The Per Capita CbiP satimote is at oarket prices for         allo.once of 60 gres of total protein p-r doy, "ni 20 Vras of
y-a.s other than 1960,calculated by the eat conversion        rnimal and pulee protein, of hich 10 grme should be animal
tech.iqor as tho 1972 World bak Atlas.                        protin.  Th-a. *tanldas  are .oneo.at l-er th-r those or 75
/   Average nusber of daughters per on of r-productive           Grams of tota  protein and 23 gr   of anin.l protein a, an
ago                                                          av"erage for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
P ohpulation growtb r-tes      for the decades endineg S         Survey.
i960 nd 1970.                                             7 Some etudies have cuggested that orsde d.-th rate. of children
&   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to p.pula-       ageen I through 1 nMA be seed *e a firet appr-Isotion indas of
tion of ag. 15-6h for Ae dep-ndency ratlo and to labor        eal ntrltinn
force of agr 15-641 for *eon-sic dependency ratio.        /8 Porcontaga enrollod of corresponding population of achool age
i PoO raferen-o   standards reinascot poyaio2ogi.al re-          as defined for each country.
qnlro.ntc tor norrol 4otivity ad health, taing
/L  1972;    A   Mainland Tanzania;    A   ti0 estimate for Aforim population, boaod on warlyeis of data fi~ 1962 poet-
cenl. sample eruey$      /d UN eetimtoe  for 1965-70;   /a 1967i     Lf 1960-721    _/   1962-69i    A   2,000 or more
inhabitants;    A   T-nrgnyika only;   ,   15 geeetted tvnahipa, 1957-67;     /4   Seoul city and a unicipoliti.a of
5,O00 or aore; /A Proclaioed to-nshipo, accorninC to enla.rged liits as of Augunt 1963, plu. the to-n of Makrburg;
/4  19(2;     4  B-srd on conplete enumeration of nn-Ajfrlran,povlation and of orb,n   African population and on   10 per-
coot eSple of rural African population;     /. 1969;    /4  labor force In ape bracket 15-59;    /4 16 ga.atted townskips;
/   19711   /a Nusber on the reigoter, not all working lo the roantry;   /t 1cluding eiduives, assistant aid.ioa and
nurees;   /4  1973;   /   Latiaete;   d   1968;    x Iociludiog teacher training at the third  rvel1  &   Households;
1 AS year and over;.          1961;   /b    WSiAition of literacy unknown;  -/-c  Water piped inside;  /ad  Including vehicles
operated by police or other Ipveront 0Curit    organitation and light roeercl    v hicls-    /e   Ragitarod only.
*  Mauritiua Moo bren selectd   8e An elxaple of a prrdoainantely agricultura1 rconomy, which Is following ecee enlightemed
policies desigerd to diorruify production  nd prometi asrI,rrt.d indu-trlalization.
i6  A;ril 21, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2
Actual     Projected                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1964 -  1973 -  19 73  197  1978
NATIONAL ACCOWRTO                       I~~~~~~~~Af~   1974    1975    22         InZ               192      1978       AsPretoGY
RATIONAL AccoLUM                        ~~~~At 1973 Prices and-Exchaage Hates       Average Asmual Growth Rates         A    ecn     f(l
Gross Domestic Product                                 2,s337    2,442      2..575   2.703     2,981              6.7       5.0      100.0    106.1   107.6
Gains from Terms of Trade ()-                                     - 66      '-148     -162      -211                          .
Gross Domestic income                                  2337                  2,2    -_I        2Y,770r                     -T. 5    To-5o        o    -10h  6
ImporU ~incl. HIS)                                       728        780        804     814       835               6.1       2.5     31.2     33.1     30.1
Exports   '1 (import capacity')                           675       586        601      633      710               2.8       1.0     28.9     24.8     25.6
Resource Gap                                              53        194        203     181       125                                  2.3      8.4      4.5
Consumption Expenditures                               1,797      1,905      1,962   2,030      2,156              6.6       3.7     76.9     80.8     77.8
Investment       (incl. stOcks)                          593        665        668     692        739             11.6       4.5     25.4     27.5     26.7
Domestic Savings                          ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~540  471  465  511  614            5.9      2.6      23.1     19.2    22.2
National Savings                                         518        441        445     491        594              5.0       2.8     22.       83      2.
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of TotaLl
~~   iSfl ~~   1973                                                                         19/
Import9
Capital goods                     122.4     170.5    175.2                                                                        27.7
Tntermediate goods ~rLfuals)      173.2    214.2     272.6                                                                        43.1
F'uels and related materials       41.3     47.4      67.0                                                                        10.6
of which:   Petroleum           (41.3)    (47.4)   (67.0)                                                                      (10.6)
Ganflt     loods                  105.8     128.1    117.6                                                                        1.
Total Merch. Tmorts (cif)        -UY-      _350.2   -63T                                                                         100.0
Eportmary prodtucts ~axl. f'uels)  144.7     135.8    256.2                                                                        5.
F'uels and related materials       40.3      51.4     61.7                                                                        13.2
of which., Petroleum            (40.3)    (51.4)   (61.7)                                                                      (13.2)
Mamnufactured goods               103.6     112.6    150.1                                                                        32.1
Total Merch. Exports (fob) 1/     29F.r   -*M-8:    70-- 'W
Tourism and Border. 'ras5e         25       76        70
Merchandise Trade Indices                               1973 -100
Export Price index                                    100        142       140      153         169
Import Price Index                                    100        156       178      194         222
Terms of Trade Index                                  ioo         91        79       79          76
Exports Volumre Index                                 100         92       110      117         137
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Dat    at 196     Prices and gxchane Rates             Average Annual Grolwth ~Rates       As Percent of Total
x,OneLary beector oney)             154    1972       1931964-1973                                                                  16        91     1/
Agricsiture                               245       264                                                   5.8                     23        20       20
industry and Mining               132     254       282                                                   8.5                     20        21      22
Services (inc. Govt.)             3 87    708       750                                                   7.8                     57        59      58
To_tal ikoRDetary Sector          675   1_,207    1,296                                                   7.5                    19         00    t1700
PUJBLIC FINANCE                                In current prices and exchangte ratesAsPretoGD
_~-nrlGovernment)               64165   71172   Z72LT3        73L74     74/75    75/76      77L78
CretReceipts                 -TW      398      49          _536_       605    6371         941                                        19.7
CurentEpedtue                     159     337       374         444        440      511        647                                        17.5
Budgetary Savings                 -21      61        45          92        16-5     16-0      _F_                                          2.2
Expenditures in
Develorpmrent Budget               38     145       173         165        247     322         420                                         8.1
us $ mcillion
CUI(REPT IPENDITURE  ETAILS  --  Actual         Prelim.    Est.       Proj.       DETAIL ON                            Acod_li75//7     2 2cnd ~Ei
As % TotsaI Current Expend.)         1964/65  1972/73    1973/74    1974173    I97/7//3    PUTBLIC SECTOR                                    4 o
Edlucationl                             1I      28          27         28        27        INVESTMENT PRGA                      (1974 /75     1977 /78)
Other Social Services                    8      109                9         9             Social Sectors                        199             16
Agriculture                              9       88                     7          7       Agriculture & Water Development      445              35
Other Economic Services                  3      11          10         17        15        Industry and Mining                   42               3
Admniostration and Defense              30      27          26         26        21        Power  and Ccxmmaications              78              6
Other                                   39      16          20         13        21        Transport and construction           232              18
Total Current Expenditores  100  100  100      100       100        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Total Expenditures  US$ 1,2751 million   100%
SELECTED IN4DICATORS                                          1965-             1973-        FINANCING
(Ca-lculated from 3-Year averaged data)                       1970              1978
Average ICOR                                                   3.3              5.18            Public S.~ctor Savings             389             30
import Elasticity                                              1.0              0.50            Domestic Borrowing                347              27
Marginal Doinestic Savingr; Nate                               0.29             0.17            Foreign Project Aid               -              .4Ai
Marginal National Savinigs Rate                                0.22             0.18            TtlFncigUS$ 1,276 million                         1007.
IAIB3R FORCE AN                                 Total LaLbor Force                                Value Added Per Worker    (1971  __   Prices & Fxc._Rates)
OUTIjJ  PER WORKER                     In  Mlioa7                     of Total                       ISS U.S. Dollars               Percent of Averate
1971                         1971                              1971                               1971
Agriculture                               4,647                         86                               109                                 36
Industry                                    141                          3                            1,426                                 475
iervice                                     301                          6                             1,8                                  429
Tc ta.                                    5,377                        100                               300                                100
no-t aplcbe            -nlo       elgbep-preliminary
riot ava4lable        --less than half the           1/   including unspecified exports and re-earports                            EACPIC
smallest unit shOwsi         2/  Non-oil                                                                  Arl2,17
T/  oil                                                                       Arl2,17



j:~~   ~~ 6         I      t
4 9CCC  I  919F  A,
~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~ ~  e  _ Nr C  -i C  N r CC  _4   CN_
jJ                       C  CN   C  C4  N4  04.  CC 6 t   X t 8 s 
F  46 b  a41  E'  o   |  oX  CC  *O'  CC  C
oZ~~~~~~~ CeC          C  _  C C  C  C N
R $ 4  "  4  i i   S $   |  C  C SO  .0 C  .  C N N ..9a
NC1C  o,C  Co  C,  Cd   I a..  - h Cu Nh h
-,fie;  CS  N E  N l
'a .', iq3tdl 0g!i85ao  yt}1| '  I's
CC  N  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  CN    Ai'  



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at April 30, 1975
Loan or                                                    (US$ million)
Credit # Year    Borrower      Purpose              Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank   IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Three (3) loans and nine (9) credits,
fully disbursed                                   32.1   40.0
641     1969    Kenya    Forest Plantations        2.6              0.2
185     1970    Kenya    Education                        6.1       2.4
714     1970    NCC      Water Supply              8.3              2.4
224     1970    Kenya    Road Maintenance                12.6       2.5
745     1971    TRDC     Hydroelectric Develop.   23.0              1.3
276     1972    Kenya    Highways                        22.0       9.5
826     1972    Kenya    Nairobi Airport          29.0             13.4
344     1972    Kenya    Agricultural Credit              6.0       4.2
932     1973    Kenya    Highways                 29.0             29.0
946     1973     IDB     DFC                       5.0              2.5
468      1974   Kenya    Population                      12.0      12.0
477     1974     Kenya   Livestock                       21.5      21.5
993     1974    Kenya    Tea Factories            10.4              9.9
1,093     1974    Kenya    Group Farm Credit         7.5              7.5
537     1975     Kenya   Group Farm Credit                7.5       7.5
Total                         146.9  127.7      125.8
of which has been repaid      7.0    0.1
Total now outstanding         139.9  127.6
Amount sold         5.1
of which has
been repaid       4.3          .8
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                139.1  127.6
Total Undisbursed              66.2   59.6       125.8
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at April 30, 1975
Year               Obligor                Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1968 & 1973    Kenya Hotel Properties          Hotels              5.2     0.7       5.9
1970 & 1974    Pan African Paper Mills         Pulp and Paper      11.9    5.7      17.6
1972           Tourism Promotion Services      Hotels               2.4      -       2.4
Total Gross Commitments                                       19.5    6.4      25.9
less cancellations, terminations repayments and sales       6.2     1.8       8.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                             13.3    4.6      17.9
Total Undisbursed                                              3.0    0.0       3.0
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Loan 639 - Highways: $23.5 aillion Loan of October 10, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975. Construction is substantially completed. There
has been a 45 percent increase above original cost estimates due mainly to
design changes.
Loan 641 - Forest Plantation: $2.6 million Loan of November 7, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Progress is satisfactory and disbursements
proceeded faster than envisaged. The loan was almost fully drawn down a year
before Closing Date. Planting and technical aspects are satisfactory.
Credit 185 - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1975.   Construction is proceeding at a slower
rate than anticipated. As remedial action has been taken, it is expected
ti., all project institutions, except two, will be completed prior to the
Closing Date. An extension of the Closing Date of about 12 months is likely
to be required in order to complete the two project items lagging behind.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 714 - Water Supply: $8.4 million Loan of November 7, 1969;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. Good progress has been made on the main
project items, and water was delivered in Nairobi on schedule in March 1974.
A twelve-month postponement of the Closing Date, however, was required to
enable completion of ancillary items. The Water and Sewerage Department is
still experiencing staffing shortages in its engineering and commercial
sections due to inability to attract and retain staff. The financial results
of water operations are generally satisfactory and water tariffs have now
been increased. Cost overruns, which are mainly due to local cost increases,
are about 31 percent over the appraisal estimates.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance: $12.6 miilion Credit of December 28,
1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. This project is progressing well, although
its final completion is now expected to be delayed till December 1976 -
eighteen months behind the original schedule. The delay is due to some
unforeseen difficulties experienced in acquisition of land and procurement
of steel required for construction of the workshops. Most of the equipment
has been received and installed, and the Highway Training Center is in opera-
tion. While the majority of the senior posts in the Roads Branch have been
filled, a few are still vacant due to difficulties in finding suitably qual-
ified specialists.
Loan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric: $23.0 million Loan of June 7,
1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The project was commissioned in
August 1974 and there are only a few minor details outstanding. Cost escala-
tion was 7 percent, principally the result of currency fluctuations, the
imposition of a sales tax in 1973 and an increase in engineering costs. The
Closing Date has been postponed from June 30, 1975 to December 31, 1975
because some retention monies are not due till then.
Credit 276 - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. This project, which is jointly financed by
a Swedish Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to a review of paving
standards undertaken by Government and consequent delays in obtaining govern-
mental approvals to issue tenders. Because of high bid prices and specifica-
tion changes, total estimated cost of the project may exceed the appraisal
estimates by over 25 percent.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The major contracts have been awarded,
and work has commenced. Inadequate supervision by the key contractor and
administrative delays by the Government have led to delays in the physical
execution of the project. Financial and organizational problems persist.
There is likely to be a cost overrun of about $10.5 million. Some key
positions, including that of the Airport Manager, still remain unfilled. The
project is now expected to be completed by December 31, 1976 rather than by
December 1975 as originally anticipated. The Closing Date of this Loan may
have to be extended to December 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit of
November 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The Agricultural Finance
Corporation has started a second phase of lending operations, following the
completion of the first under Credit 105. Progress is satisfactory and
disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan 932 - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977. This Loan was made effective on November 9,
1973. Owing to a review of paving standards, bids have yet to be invited for
about 30 percent of the works. Cost overruns are likely to be substantial.
Loan 946 - Industrial Development Bank: $5.0 million Loan of
November 29, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1976. The Loan has been fully
committed and negotiations for a second tranche have been substantially
completed. So far about $3.5 million has been disbursed.
Credit 468 - Population: $12.0 million Credit of April 1, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Credit became effective on July 31, 1974.
The construction for this project is estimated to be about 6-8 months behind
schedule. There have also been some delays in the employment of technical
experts.
Credit 477 - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Closing Date: December 21, 1980. This Credit was declared effective on
December 2, 1974. Work on the ranching component is now proceeding, but the
project is behind schedule.
Loan 993 - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Loan became effective September 23, 1974.
Contracts for the first four tea factories have been let but the tendering
for remaining tea factories is behind schedule.
Credit 537/Loan 1093 - Group Farms Rehabilitation Credit and Loan
of March 27, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This Credit and Loan
is not yet effective.
Credit 543/Loan 1105 - Site and Service Project of May 6, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Credit and Loan is not yet effective..



ANNEX II
Page 5
D.   Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed by Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda as at April 30, 1975
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
Loan #   Year   Borrower          Purpose              Bank   Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                            75.0
638 EA   1969    EAHC         Harbours                 35.0        5.4
674 EA   1970    EARC         Railways                 42.4       17.3
675 EA   1970    EAPTC        Telecommunications       10.4       0.3
843 EA   1972    EADB         Development Finance       8.0        7.4
865 EA   1972    EAHC         Harbours                 26.5      17.9
914 EA   1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications       32.5      19.5
Total                                  229.8      67.8
of which has been repaid              29.8
Total now outstanding                  200.0
Amount sold:           24.4
of which has
been repaid          24.4                0
Total now held by Bank                 200.0
Total Undisbursed                       67.8



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
SECOND FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT
Project and Credit Loan Summary
Borrower                  Republic of Kenya
Amount:                   Loan of $10.0 million
Credit of $10.0 million
Terms:                    Loan:    25 years including 10 years of grace
and interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Credit:  Standard.
Project Description:      The Project would extend a program which the
Government has undertaken for many years to estab-
lish industrial pine plantations on land set aside
as government-owned forest reserves. Specifically,
the Project would, over six years:
(i) establish 38,000 ha sawlog and 8,000 ha for
pulpwood plantations; and
(ii) assist in further development through weeding,
pruning and thinning of 120,000 ha of estab-
lished plantations.
Forest roads would be established and upgraded,
headquarter facilities built and workers' quarters
built or improved. The Project would also provide
for studies on the social, economic, and environ-
mental implications of the current forest development
program. Some nine man-years of technical assistance
would also be included.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:                                                             Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange
Afforestation            14.3    2.11    16.4      13
Forest Roads              1.5    1.1     2.6       42
Project Management
Administration         11.4    1.2     12.6       9
Building Housing        4.6    0.6     5.2      11
Equipment                 0.8    2.8     3.6       78
Studies and
Technical Assistance    0.9    1.5     2.4       63
Subtotal             33.5    9.3    42.8       22
Contingencies
Physical                0.3    0.4     0.7       57
Price                   8.8    3.2    12.0       27
Total Project Cost   42.6   12.9    55.5       23
Financing Plan:           IDA      Bank       Kenya
10.0     10.0        35.5
18%      18%        64%
Estimated
Disbursements:                    1976     1977   1978   1979   1980    1981   1982
Annual:             Credit/Loanl.9      4.1    2.6    2.8    4.6     3.3    0.7
Cumulative:                    1.9      6.0    8.6   11.5   16.1    19.3   20.0
Procurement
Arrangements:           Procurement of equipment and vehicles (US$2.8
million) on orders exceeding US$50,000 would be by
international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank's guidelines. Orders of less than US$50,000
would be procured in accordance with Government's
procurement regulations. The infrastructure work
on plantations would be executed by force account.
Due to the nature of the work and that it would
be over a scattered area, this work would not be
suitable for international or local competitive
bidding. About $1.3 million covering expenditures



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
incurred from January 1, 1975 would be financed
retroactively.
Rate of Return:           22% on sawlog plantations
25% on pulpwood plantations
Annrai.Rl Renort:         Report No. 706a-KE dated June 4, 1975
Map:                     A map showing the project areas is attached
(IBRD 11437).



S U D A N                                                   KENYA
,.   9  \   $ 4Aree FOREST PLANTATION PROJECT 1[
A
-' '   E T H I O P I A          .        \>
\k_]  L,,N,4<Wn~     ~~'           /%*t/                               //
i\,J/t~~~~~~~~~~~~''                        L                      t/ \/
Ma/1* }>   > \   Ccrsobit  l   t  i S O M A L I
UGANDA                                                                    j tigZ  , 
 t  <  1 \  )   A  \w;-t         X      <@ort        ! R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE P U B L I C
Lien                               n                                                     0*.
Or EJ GON ~ ~ ~ ~   ...  NIRI . ~r    ~     & 
r                                     Y                      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
_b~~~~~~-- '           \              o1takos                C f I} 
\       X  A  W    t   "ii;  0   0   _   vc g0                  , 
M [ATRON  n0  A X AMOOOE ItA
A7    M,/T5'---'  Io\,s
<, ~~~~~T; UsAtt< |7'S Forest reserve area
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KNyo7-r| 3Ntional nap 101
O   A0   E0   j O   Ic0  \      d/_  J      4f_ econdLlry reads
r ILOMETERS               \      /'            Rlwy 
0  20040  00  ac  too\              o 
ra t   or r-Ss          ~~~~~~~~~~~MILES               C          _  _ Internatianal baurdaries
r*hrexsarAroas  36                         ToOo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rDr is Saloron, 5   0



